

401 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Warm Water Cited in Lobster Die-Off

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
A ''PERFECT STORM'' of sustained high water temperature, low levels of dissolved oxygen and the toxic impacts of ammonia and sulfides created lethal conditions for lobsters in western Long Island Sound in September 1999 and all but certainly explains why they suddenly died in tremendous numbers, according to researchers.
 But in a series of reports delivered at a symposium earlier this month at Stony Brook University, they sounded less certain about whether and to what degree pesticides contributed and said it was an area that needed more study.
 The die-off, which lobstermen said occurred with stunning speed between Sept. 19 and 22, 1999, abruptly ended a peak period for catches, essentially wiped out a $100 million lobster industry, idled hundreds of New York and Connecticut lobstermen who had been hauling a record 500,000 traps, and sounded alarms as far north as Maine. 
 Shell disease, marked by eroded and discolored shells that make lobsters unmarketable, has also spread in eastern Long Island Sound, where the crustaceans are less plentiful. 
 But the impact of the 1999 die-off was greatest in western waters of the Sound, where the lobsters and the lobster industry were concentrated. 
 Last year the lobster catch was less than one-tenth of its peak of 8.2 million pounds in 1997.
 Participants in the symposium described the die-off as a major environmental event, and in the view of some researchers it was an ominous if still tentative sign of global warming. Long Island Sound is at the southern edge of the Maine lobster's East Coast range.
 ''Global warming is definitely happening, and it's happening in Long Island Sound,'' said Karen Chytalo, a marine habitat protection official for the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. 
 But Jack Mattice, director of the New York Sea Grant program at Stony Brook, was more tentative, saying anything that raised water temperature was a threat to lobsters, and ''it could be global warming.''
 In reports delivered at the symposium, co-sponsored by the Connecticut and New York Sea Grant programs, researchers said that mosquito pesticides including methoprene, malathion, resmethrin and sumithrin could not account for the catastrophic 1999 die-off, even even though, the compounds were found to be extremely toxic to lobsters.
 The pesticides, in different combinations and at different times, were in use both before and after the die-off in New York City, on Long Island and in Westchester and Connecticut as government and health officials reacted to the onset of mosquito-borne West Nile virus with emergency ground and aerial spraying. Genetically, lobsters are closely related to mosquitoes. 
 Many lobstermen believe the pivotal event came on Sept. 19, when the remnants of Hurricane Floyd, by then a tropical storm, dumped heavy rain on Long Island and flushed pesticides into the Sound in storm runoff. 
 But the researchers said that even assuming all the pesticides applied on land areas around Long Island Sound at the time of the die-off had been washed into the water by rain, the amounts were too small to kill lobsters or to weaken them enough that they would succumb to already hostile water conditions.
 Though the researchers billed their findings as definitive, they stopped short of exonerating the pesticides and said more research was needed. They also acknowledged that pesticide concentrations in Long Island Sound in the crucial September 1999 time frame were difficult to gauge. 
 Researchers were emphatic, however, in depicting what they concluded were the principal causes of the 1999 die-off. They also described the die-off as a more gradual event, perhaps foreshadowed in 1997 and 1998 when smaller die-offs were already signaling trouble ahead.
 By the time of the September 1999 die-off, they said, lobsters had already been exposed for more than two months to water temperatures above 68 degrees Fahrenheit, considered the upper limit of their endurance. As the creatures withdrew from shallower, warmer waters to the cooler bottom waters, they were also subjected to low oxygen levels, or hypoxia. 
 Researchers said that by late summer the lobsters, in moving away from hypoxic areas, crowded more closely together, only to be overtaken by hypoxia again. Hypoxia occurs as water grows warmer, and when algae and other marine organisms die, sink to the bottom, and consume oxygen on the already low-oxygen bottoms as they decompose.
 Conditions grew even more hostile because there was too little oxygen for aerobic bacteria to continue this decomposition, leaving the job to anaerobic bacteria -- or bacteria that don't use oxygen -- which release ammonia and sulfides toxic to lobsters.
 The researchers said winds from a storm on Aug. 30 thoroughly mixed waters of Long Island Sound that had stratified during a dry summer, with warmer water near the surface.
 Carmela Cuomo, a marine ecologist and geologist at the University of New Haven, said the mixing brought fresh oxygen to the depths, but also raised bottom water temperature by 1.5 to 2 degrees in just 6 hours, pushing it into the red zone for already weakened lobsters.
 The future for the industry looked bleak. A graph of lobster larvae numbers showed an up-and-down pattern leading to 2002, when levels fell to historic lows and stayed there. 
 Penelope Howell-Heller, a senior fisheries biologist at the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, said it was the first time in 22 years of records that larval levels had stayed so low for three consecutive years. Research also showed female lobsters were at low levels.
 The low numbers of larvae raised concerns about the use of mosquito pesticides on land because of the extraordinarily lethal effect even tiny amounts could have on the larvae and also on juvenile lobsters.
 Researchers reported that as little at 33 parts per billion of the pesticide malathion in water would kill 50 percent of adult lobsters, with juveniles and larvae deemed even more susceptible. Malathion was used in New York City in August and September of 1999. In 2001 Congress allocated $6.6 million to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to research the causes and economic impact of the 1999 lobster die-off and shell disease in Long Island Sound. Connecticut contributed an additional $1 million. The National Marine Fisheries Service and environmental agencies in both states participated.
 The relatively modest amount of money available for research left many questions unanswered and confined researchers to addressing relatively narrow issues.
 The researchers agreed that more research, data and monitoring was necessary, including research into the role of mosquito pesticides in weakening or killing lobsters.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Study of the lobster die-off is being done at the Marine Sciences Research Center at SUNY Stony Brook by researchers like Al Dove. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUSTACEANS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PESTICIDES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); WEATHER (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); HURRICANES (73%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BITES & STINGS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); WEST NILE VIRUS (70%); VIRUSES (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (63%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%) Water Pollution; Lobsters; Fishing, Commercial; Ammonia; Pesticides

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island Sound; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



402 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE OCCUPATION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Drawing From Its Past Wars, Britain Takes a Tempered Approach to Iraqi Insurgency

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: AMARA, Iraq 

 BODY:
They came with their regimental colors, embroidered flags recording battles in 18th-century India, in the Napoleonic wars, against Ottoman legions in Iraq in World War I, on the Normandy beaches, and in Malaya, Kenya and other colonial outposts after World War II.
 For 8,900 British soldiers serving in Iraq, second largest among 31 foreign military contingents to the 140,000 American troops, the banners hanging at their bases are emblems of a collective memory -- of how to prevail in foreign wars, and, just as surely, British officers say sardonically, of how to lose them. 
 Lately, in map-lined operations rooms, on jeep patrols across oil-rich deserts, and in clamorous mess halls serving favorites like steak-and-kidney pie, British soldiers serving at bases across Iraq's southernmost provinces say they have felt the lessons of history pressing in.
 With American troops, the British are the tribunes of the two nations that led the Iraq invasion 18 months ago. Now, trapped with the Americans in a continuing war that neither nation anticipated when Baghdad fell, British officers and squaddies, as the enlisted men are called, speak, often like a Rudyard Kipling lament for the blighted hopes of soldiers bearing alien ideals into far-off lands. 
 ''At the end of the day, we are the infidels, the crusaders, and the Iraqis would rather we were not here,'' said Maj. Jason Jordan, who commanded troops of the Cheshire Regiment besieged in a Basra outpost in August by fighters loyal to the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr. ''But as long as we're not doing any harm, and actually doing some good, they'll tolerate us.''
 As the insurgency lengthens, the British world-weariness strikes a telling contrast with the more visionary perspective of American commanders. 
 In recent weeks, the American command has set out to crush Mr. Sadr's fighters in the sprawling Shiite area of Baghdad called Sadr City, as well as the alliance of loyalists of the former government and Islamic militants who form the core of the resistance in cities across the Sunni Triangle. The Americans contend Iraqis will embrace Western-style freedoms in elections scheduled by Jan. 31 if the rebels can be beaten back.
 The American offensive resulted in a truce last week under which Sadr representatives offered a cease-fire and a turnover of heavy weapons for cash in return for an American pledge not to enter Sadr City. The weapons turnover met with some early success, but American officials cautioned that Mr. Sadr had accepted similar truces before, only to trigger new uprisings.
 To prepare for national voting in January, the British have organized town council elections in the south, attracting voter turnouts of 10 percent to 25 percent. But ultimately, British officers say, Iraqis are likely to revert to more traditional governing models, tempered by tribal and religious loyalties, and, perhaps, the instinct for a strongman that helped Saddam Hussein build his dictatorship. 
 ''They do things differently here, and to try and implant a view of democracy that works in North America and the United Kingdom is going to be fraught, to say the least,'' said Lt. Col. John Donnelly, the overall Cheshire Regiment commander in Basra. ''Don't get me wrong, Iraqis do want some sort of democracy, that's a reality, but in the end, their future is for them to decide, not us.''
 The diverging perspectives have resonated in different fighting strategies. At Falluja, Najaf, Samarra and Tal Afar, and in Sadr City before the truce, the Americans have hit hammer-hard, seeking to root out and kill as many rebels as possible. The British, throughout the war, have favored ''less robust'' fighting to contain the rebels with defensive actions, not eliminate them.
 British officers acknowledge that the different strategies reflect the heavier challenges the Americans have faced. American troops, spread out across 14 of Iraq's 18 provinces, have faced rebels from the Sunni and Shiite communities. The British, in the Shiite south, have faced mainly Shiite attacks, culminating in the two widespread Sadr uprisings in April and August. 
 ''Before April, compared to what the American troops in Baghdad and Falluja were facing, this was a holiday camp,'' said Maj. Justin Featherstone, 35, who led troops of the Princess of Wales Royal Regiment in defense of another garrison besieged by Mr. Sadr's fighters in August, in Amara. ''We were welcomed here as liberators, and we made a lot of progress. Then Sadr led his uprisings, and it all went horribly wrong.''
 Beyond the lower-level attacks they have faced, the British cite other reasons for using only ''appropriate force,'' in mainly defensive operations. Long after empire, they say, they relearned the limits of military action from quelling 30 years of sectarian strife in Northern Ireland and as United Nations peacekeepers in Bosnia in the early 1990's. 
 In August, American forces crushed Mr. Sadr's fighters in Najaf, driving them from the city's golden shrine with tank fire, laser-guided bombs and armored assaults that left much of Najaf's old city in ruins. 
 In Basra and Amara, the south's two largest cities, Sadr fighters besieged British troops in isolated strongholds, pounding them with rocket, mortar and machine-gun fire that, in Amara, amounted to the heaviest assault British troops had endured since the Korean War.
 The British successfully defended the two compounds, killing as many as 300 attackers, with only three British soldiers killed. But the British mounted no major counterstrikes, sparing neighboring localities and, British officers say, limiting civilian casualties. 
 ''When Sadr's people kicked off, we could have jumped in with big boots and killed 400 to 500 people, but we couldn't have defeated them, because they would have melted away into the side streets, and we'd have created another Najaf,'' Colonel Donnelly said. ''We've got to find a solution here that is based on nonviolence, or we'll be here for years and years.'' 
 British commanders noted some of the reasons for the tougher American responses, in particular, Mr. Sadr's occupation of the Imam Ali Shrine in Najaf, the holiest in Shiite Islam, and the political and religious imperative of forcing him out; the location of Sadr City, only five miles from the seat of power in central Baghdad, was another special factor. 
 The Basra and Amara uprisings, the British say, were comparative sideshows, quick to subside once Najaf ended.
 Brigadier Andrew Kennett, commander of the British battle group based in Basra, the core of a 12-nation contingent in the southernmost provinces, said one lesson Britain learned from its centuries straddling the globe -- often reluctantly and painfully, he said -- was the importance of adjusting to local cultures, and of not imposing alien solutions. ''We do need to have a mind to the fact that some of these people have a legitimate political point of view,'' he said, speaking of Mr. Sadr.
 British soldiers are encouraged to engage amicably with ordinary Iraqis and are taught simple Arabic phrases and the rudiments of Islamic belief. 
 As often as possible, they wear berets instead of helmets, travel in aging, soft-sided Land Rovers instead of armored vehicles, and mount foot patrols with lowered weapons, even through neighborhoods where they have recently taken enemy fire. 
 ''Our motto is 'Smile, shoot, smile,''' said Colonel Donnelly of the Cheshire Regiment. ''Our attitude is, 'Today, I'm your enemy, and I want to kill you, but tomorrow, I'll be your friend,''' he said. 
 Another lesson the British have taken from their experiences is the benefit that can flow from modest forms of aid directed at the neediest people in the communities they garrison. Major Featherstone said community leaders in Amara's poorest districts -- mostly Sadr loyalists -- complained this spring that the British were ''complacent and arrogant oppressors who had done nothing'' in a year in the city.
 He said he asked the leaders to nominate their most deprived people for small grants. Drawing on Britain's $140 million aid budget for Iraq, he approved grants of $50 to $500 to help set up 180 small businesses, including a tea stall, a barber, a grocer, a tailor, a car mechanic, a blanket-sewer and a taxi driver. He said the businesses were ''putting food on the table'' for more than 2,000 people before the August uprising.
 During the rebel attack, more than 600 mortars were fired at the football field-size British compound, Major Featherstone said, but three people who received grants appeared at the compound gates during the siege with receipts for the money they had received, and for 14 other beneficiaries' grants. He said he had a telephone call during the siege from a relative of a Sadr commander named Hussein, who told him that ''Hussein wants to know if you're O.K.'' 
 Major Curry, at the base outside Amara, said the lesson from these and other experiences was that foreign troops in Iraq had to concentrate on the welfare of local communities, especially on reducing unemployment. ''If we give these people something to live for, rather than die for, we will have won this war,'' he said. ''We are not going to win in Iraq just by fighting.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A British soldier smiled as he and a colleague passed an Iraqi boy while they patrolled the southern city of Basra last month. (Photo by Essam al-Sudani/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WORLD WAR I (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); CITIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); RELIGION (64%); TERRORISM (60%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%) John F Burns; Moktada Al-Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (72%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRAQ (95%); KENYA (92%); FRANCE (72%) Iraq; Great Britain; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



403 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Debates Harden Views And Don't Change Many Minds

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jay Wagner contributed reporting from Des Moines for this article.

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
The state of the presidential campaign was on vivid display in a Des Moines coffee shop the day after the final debate, as Jeff Voorhees, a Republican, and Tim Waddell, a Democrat, judged the presidential encounters they had followed from their perch in this most competitive of swing states.
 ''I'm a Bush supporter,'' said Mr. Voorhees, who is 60. ''And they didn't change my mind.''
 Mr. Waddell, 47, peered at him from across the table. ''I'm a Kerry supporter,'' he said. ''And they didn't change my mind.'' 
 With 17 days left until the election, this archetypical exchange -- along with the remarks by dozens of other Iowans interviewed over two days in which both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush staged high-profile rallies in Iowa -- underline the challenges the two candidates face as they try to alter the stubborn terrain of this presidential race.
 It was hard to find many minds that had been changed by the debates in this politically aware state, where caucuses 10 months ago dispatched Mr. Kerry on the road to the nomination. If anything, in keeping with this election year, the encounters seemed to harden existing attitudes, planting people like Mr. Vorhees and Mr. Waddell more firmly into their political ground.
 ''Kerry's a far better debater, but I'm not voting for a debater,'' said Mike Kembin, a Republican and an engineer, speaking here in Cedar Rapids, where Mr. Bush appeared Friday. ''We're not here to win debates. I think we'll have a better president with George W.''
 Joan Bolin, 58, a lawyer from Des Moines, where Mr. Kerry appeared Thursday, said the debates ''didn't change my mind: I went in for Kerry and I came out for Kerry. And I'm a Republican.''
 Yet for all that, the interviews found reasons for encouragement for Mr. Kerry and for Mr. Bush as they prepared for the remaining days of the race.
 For Mr. Kerry, Democrats who 15 days ago were unmoved by their standard-bearer said they had been stirred by a candidate who in the debates proved more personable, animated and articulate than they had expected. 
 In an election in which Mr. Bush is benefiting from strikingly more intense support from his followers, that could prove to be something of a breakthrough for Mr. Kerry if it helps him solidify and energize his Democratic base. 
 ''His personability is growing,'' said Christine Brandstad, 35, a Democrat and a lawyer in Des Moines. ''He's really developing. Because he started out pretty stiff.''
 Indeed, on Thursday night in Des Moines, Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, were greeted by a huge and roaring crowd which endured traffic jams and a four-hour wait in 35-degree temperature to see them at an outdoor, nighttime rally on the State Fairgrounds.
 The encouraging development for Mr. Bush, the interviews found, was signs of Mr. Kerry's continuing difficulty in getting voters beyond the hardest-line Democrats to warm up to him. If anything, Mr. Bush's amiability may have, at times, served as a welcome counterpoint to Mr. Kerry's sobriety, at least in the view of Mr. Bush's aides.
 Mr. Bush's supporters -- and Republicans and independents who expressed disquiet with the president's record -- generally judged Mr. Kerry the winner of the debates, but said that would not move them to vote for someone they did not like or trust.
 ''I just don't agree with my husband that Bush is doing so well on the economy, and I do think there can be changes as far as what he's doing in Iraq,'' said Amber Barker, 28, from Waukee, who a moment earlier shook her head and covered her eyes as her husband, Aaron, announced that ''I'm still voting for Bush.''
 ''But I don't necessarily agree with what Kerry is saying,'' she continued. ''He is on the fence on a lot of issues. It's obvious in every commercial you see; because it really does influence voters when you don't have somebody who really sticks to what they believe.''
 Lisa Kenyon, a Republican and a lawyer here, said, ''Kerry turned me off big time because he has this very affected way of speaking. Plus, I find him over-rehearsed. I don't find him genuine.''
 And Mr. Bush's aides argued that Mr. Kerry had reinforced qualms about his personality by noting to Mr. Bush that Vice President Dick Cheney's daughter Mary is a lesbian. That remark was brought up unsolicited by supporters of Mr. Bush and of Mr. Kerry.
 ''There's been a lot of talk about Kerry's low blow with regard to Mary Cheney,'' Ms. Kenyon said. ''Iowans don't like that kind of thing. What if one of Kerry's daughters had had an abortion and the president had brought that up in the debate? Do you think that would have been fair?''
 Still, Mr. Bush's own post-debate rally at the US Cellular Center here on Friday drew a notably smaller and less enthusiastic crowd than Mr. Kerry drew the night before in Des Moines. Swatches of seats and patches of the arena floor were empty, even though the event took place inside a heated building, during the day, and downtown. 
 And in one sign of how Mr. Bush's most fervent supporters were judging the debates, Ms. Kenyon grimaced when asked if she thought that they might change the course of the election. ''I hope not!'' she exclaimed.
 Mr. Bush's advisers said they were confident that even a verdict that Mr. Kerry had won the debates would not come to mean that he would win the election. They said that the Kerry camp was guilty of hubris with such gimmicks as holding out brooms and signs proclaiming ''3 4 3'' (say it aloud) to foster the idea that Mr. Kerry had swept the debates. 
 ''The Democrats were high-fiving and celebrating way too early in this race, and I think that over the course of the next few days, I think you'll see the race settle out and I think it will settle out in our favor,'' said Matthew Dowd, a senior Bush strategist.
 Mr. Kerry's aides said they did not think the full force of the debates would become clear until after this weekend. ''My experience is that people make up their mind a few days after the debates,'' said Stanley Greenberg, a pollster advising the Kerry campaign. ''Once it moves, I don't think it's going to come back. I don't think people are revisiting this.''
 In many ways, there are few better states than Iowa in which to measure how Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry did over the past two weeks. The fact that both headed here in the 48 hours after the final debate is testimony to the state's competitiveness. Al Gore defeated Mr. Bush here by 0.3 percent. Polls this time show the race almost even, and the tension in both campaign organizations here is palpable.
 Because of the caucuses, Iowans are unusually curious and well-informed about the politics. It was hard to find people who had not seen the debates and who did not have strong opinions about what they had seen.
 For all the polarization, Democrats and Republicans agree on who did better in the debates.
 ''I'm a Bush supporter and Bush is clearly not the quality debater that Kerry is,'' said Neil Mandsager, 48, a physician. Dr. Mandsager said that had not affected his judgment on Mr. Kerry.
 ''I have problems with him,'' he said. ''I think he presented himself well, but I have problems with his positions on the Iraq war. I think he has catered to the political winds.''
 Ron Keller, who works for a life insurance company, said that Mr. Kerry's superior debating skills had not convinced him to abandon his support for Mr. Bush.
 ''Debating is a unique skill, and I think that John Kerry is very well versed at it,'' Mr. Keller said.
 And Mr. Voorhees said: ''I do think Kerry won the debate. He was more articulate. He was able to answer questions. I've come to the conclusion that being a good debater doesn't mean you're a good president.
 Conversely, Mr. Kerry surprised some Democrats with how he came across in his performance. ''He put his hand on a lot of issues,'' said Joseph Hwang, 39, a physician. ''I think he looked presidential. It was a pleasant surprise.''
 Doug Fulton, a 46-year-old lawyer supporting Mr. Kerry, said: ''Maybe he gave some people confidence that they wouldn't have had in the past. People might like him a little bit more, or feel a little warmer about him.''
 One thing that was missing these past few days was the presumed target of these debates: undecided voters. As Mr. Waddell said in the Des Moines coffee shop, ''Good luck finding them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Amber Barker and her husband, Aaron. He supports President Bush. She sees problems with the war in Iraq. ''But I don't necessarily agree with what Kerry is saying,'' she says.
Joseph Hwang, left, a physician, and Connie Pleinis. Mr. Hwang said of Senator John Kerry's performance in the debates: ''I think he looked presidential. It was a pleasant surprise''
Joan Bolin, left, and Christine Brandstad, lawyers. Ms. Bolin is a Republican, Ms. Brandstad a Democrat. Both support Mr. Kerry. ''He's really developing,'' Ms. Brandstad said.
 Jeff Voorhees, left, a Republican, and Tim Waddell, a Democrat, disagree on whom they will support. But they agree that the debates did nothing to change their minds. (Photographs by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. 29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%) Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (88%) IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



404 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: 'Oops. I Told the Truth.'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Sometimes it's useful to stand back and ask yourself: If I could vote for anyone for president other than George W. Bush or John Kerry, whom would I choose? I'd choose Bill Cosby -- on the condition that he would talk as bluntly to white parents and kids about what they need to do if they want to succeed as he did to black kids and parents a few months ago.
 The one thing that has gone totally missing, not only from this election, but from American politics, is national leaders who are actually ready to level with the public and even criticize their own constituencies. The columnist Michael Kinsley once observed that in American politics ''a gaffe is when a politician tells the truth.'' We could use a few really big gaffes right now. Because we have not one, but three baby booms bearing down at us, and without a massive injection of truth-telling they could all explode on the next president's watch. 
 The leading edge of the American baby boom generation is now just two presidential terms away from claiming its Social Security and Medicare benefits. ''With unfunded entitlement liabilities at $74 trillion in today's dollars -- an amount far exceeding the net worth of our entire national economy -- and with payroll taxes needing to double to cover the projected costs of Social Security and Medicare, how can any serious person not call entitlement reform the transcendent domestic policy issue of our era?'' asks former Commerce Secretary Peter G. Peterson, whose book on this subject, ''Running on Empty,'' provides a blueprint for a bipartisan solution to this problem for any president daring to lead.
 The second group of boomers barreling down the highway are the young people in India, China and Eastern Europe, who in this increasingly flat world will be able to compete with your kids and mine more directly than ever for high-value-added jobs. Attention Wal-Mart shoppers: The Chinese and the Indians are not racing us to the bottom. They are racing us to the top. Young Indian and Chinese entrepreneurs are not content just to build our designs. They aspire to design the next wave of innovations and dominate those markets. Good jobs are being outsourced to them not simply because they'll work for less, but because they are better educated in the math and science skills required for 21st-century work. 
 When was the last time you met a 12-year-old who told you he or she wanted to grow up to be an engineer? When Bill Gates goes to China, students hang from the rafters and scalp tickets to hear him speak. In China, Bill Gates is Britney Spears. In America, Britney Spears is Britney Spears. We need a Bill Cosby-like president to tell all parents the truth: throw out your kid's idiotic video game, shut off the TV and get Johnny and Suzy to work, because there is a storm coming their way. 
 The third group of boomers our next president will have to deal with is from the Arab world. The Arab region has had the highest rate of population growth in the world in the last half century. It has among the highest unemployment rates in the world today. And one-third of the Arab population is under the age of 15 and will soon be entering both a barren job market and its child-bearing years. There are eight Saudis under age 15 for every one between ages 45 and 60.
 This is why I believed so strongly in trying to partner with the people of Iraq to establish some sort of decent government there that might serve as a beachhead for more progressive governance in the Arab world. I have not given up hope for this, but it may turn out that we made too many mistakes and that Iraqis are too divided for such a project to succeed. If so, the next president is going to need plan B -- some combination of oil conservation that reduces our exposure to this region, a new military strategy and a renewed focus on promoting better government there through diplomatic and economic means. The Arab world is not even close to educating its baby boomers with the skills needed to succeed in the 21st century. Left untended, this trend is a prescription for humiliation and suicide terrorism.
 I realize that elections are no time to expect honesty from politicians. But we're in this hole because the political season used to stop on Election Day. Now it's a permanent campaign. That is simply not a luxury our next president will have. The boomers are coming -- from three directions -- and we will not be able to deal with them without a president with a real penchant for gaffes of honesty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WRITERS (69%); TRENDS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); JOB CREATION (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (63%); TERRORISM (59%) Children and Youth ; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare; Labor; Children and Youth ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BRITNEY SPEARS (60%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); PETE PETERSON (52%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%) India; China; Europe; Middle East 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



405 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: The Ownership Society; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Asking Big Spenders to Be Big Savers, Too

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH has made what he calls the Ownership Society the central domestic theme of his re-election campaign: ''The more ownership there is in America, the more vitality there is in America,'' is how he put it in June. 
 The president is really saying that Americans should take more responsibility for their own financial well-being, mainly by saving more. There are benefits and obstacles to achieving that, but all may be dwarfed by a fundamental question of culture: Are Americans, the world's champion consumers, ready to turn thrifty?
 The Bush proposals are a grab-bag. Some, like creating ''voluntary personal accounts for younger workers'' as part of Social Security, would radically rearrange longstanding government policies. But most involve tweaking the tax code to reward savings: allowing couples to sock away up to $30,000 a year in a ''lifetime savings'' account for college tuition, home down payments or new cars, and not pay taxes on the account's earnings; letting them do the same with up to $15,000 more a year for retirement; and expanding health savings accounts -- which President Bush touted in Wednesday's debate -- to let families pay more of their medical bills using untaxed income. 
 A single thread runs through them: The more money Americans set aside to finance their retirement, their health care, and so on, the smaller the burden will be on employers and the government to pay for these things. 
 There are sound economic reasons for the Bush administration, or any administration, to encourage thrift. Greater savings leads to greater capital investment, which spurs economic growth, and robust growth would take much of the pain out of dealing with thorny problems like long-term budget deficits and insolvent entitlement programs. There are also drawbacks: critics say that many of the proposals would make deficits worse by draining away tax revenue, and it is far from clear how the privatized Social Security accounts could be paid for without cutting benefits.
 But the real obstacles to forging a society in which people save more and spend less may be more fundamental questions of culture and psychology. Do Americans really want to become a nation of scrimpers, squirreling away spare cash to avoid taxes in the short term and amass assets in the long term? Or do we want to remain a ''bon temps'' society that lives for today and deals with consequences later?
 Americans certainly like to own things, and to invest. Some 53 million households representing 91.2 million people -- 47 percent of all Americans -- owned stocks or mutual funds as of July 2003, according to the Investment Company Institute. 
 But they don't save much. Decades of relentless urgings to borrow more and spend more, from the onslaught of junk-mail credit card pitches to the devotion of whole magazines to goods rather than words, have turned Americans into voracious consuming machines. In 1981, Americans saved a net 8.5 percent of national income, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and as recently as 1998 the figure was 6.5 percent; by 2003, the net savings rate had fallen to just 1.2 percent. 
 In other words, we spend almost all the money we make -- and many of us spend much, much more. In the past 23 years, as interest rates have broadly fallen, Americans have embraced credit enthusiastically. Why worry about stretching to buy that house when you can always refinance at a lower rate next year? Household debt has risen by 39 percent since the last presidential election, and now stands at $9.7 trillion. Americans will have to make a dent in that mountain of debt before they can be expected to sharply increase their savings.
 What's more, there are reasons to think that trying to encourage more savings by offering more tax breaks would be like giving sun lamps to San Diegans. The tax code already offers a dizzying array of favored savings vehicles, but hardly anyone bothers to use them to the fullest. In 2001, only 8.4 percent of people with 401(k) accounts made the maximum contributions to them, according to Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. 
 As a result, critics see little point in expanding the limits on such savings. ''If you're not putting away $3,000 in an I.R.A., the fact that you can put away $10,000 won't encourage you to save more,'' said Peter Orszag, a fellow at the Brookings Institution.
 Tax incentives to borrow and invest certainly work -- look at the tax deduction for mortgage interest, which has helped push home ownership up to about 70 percent of American households, a record high. And narrowly focused incentives have also shown results -- the ''529'' tax-sheltered college savings accounts introduced in the late 1990'sattracted $35.2 billion in assets by late 2003. 
 ''We're not going to get anywhere near 100 percent pickup for any program,'' said Daniel Mitchell, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. ''But anything we can do to expand this universe of programs and provisions is a step in the right direction.''
 Still, the government will have to persuade people to start saving heavily for vaguer and more distant causes like shoring up the creaky national retirement and health care systems. And the fact that Uncle Sam has not yet asked its citizens to do so for the sake of an overweening immediate challenge -- the war on terror -- indicates just how big an about-face that would be.
 Historically, in wartime the government has promoted national thrift and sacrifice for the greater good. In the Civil War and the two World Wars, hugely successful war-bond drives helped finance victory. More importantly, they laid the groundwork for postwar booms. ''People scrimped and patriotically accumulated a lot of bond assets to help the war effort,'' said Richard Sylla, a historian at New York University's Stern School of Business. ''So when peace returned, they suddenly had the wherewithal to spend.'' 
 But the message since the Sept. 11 attacks has been the opposite, a strange and occasionally dissonant conflation of patriotism and consumption. As New Yorkers flocked to Ground Zero to volunteer, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani exhorted Gothamites to patronize TriBeCa restaurants. President Bush appeared in ads urging Americans to fly and stay in hotels. These days, it seems, they also serve who only spend like there's no tomorrow. 
 And that highlights the ultimate paradox about efforts to spur greater savings. Open-walleted consumers have been the main engine of economic growth in recent years, and anything that leads them to spend less threatens the short-term health of the economy, and by extension, the political fortunes of whoever is in office. 
 So, though governments always want people to save like penny-pinching Depression survivors for the long term, they also want them to keep on spending like have-it-all Baby Boomers now. 
 Unfortunately, most Americans have to choose between the two. Putting $3,000 in an I.R.A. means putting off buying that 70-inch flat-screen television. They won't say so publicly, but most incumbents would prefer that we buy the TV. Saving to build an Ownership Society is fine -- just not until after the election.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing/Illustration by Jesse Gordon/Isaac Gertman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FAMILY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); TUITION FEES (67%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Savings

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Daniel Gross; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



406 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: City Defers Development of Wholesale Center

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Last February, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg went to Queens to announce the development of a new wholesale center for 180 small ethnic businesses on the former site of Flushing Airport. Calling the project a boon for the local economy, the mayor boasted that it would create about 400 permanent jobs. 
 But eight months later, the Bloomberg administration has indefinitely postponed the project after months of growing opposition from city and state politicians and civic groups. These critics have raised concerns about increased traffic once the project was completed as well as environmental problems from building on the site, which is partly under water. 
 The city's Economic Development Corporation notified the developer, College Point Wholesale Distribution Development, in a phone call on Friday that it was re-evaluating the project because of the concentration of large infrastructure projects already under way near the site, which is in the College Point Corporate Park.
 ''We just realized that there was work going on,'' said Michael Sherman, a spokesman for the development agency. ''And the community certainly expressed concerns about traffic and noise, and we needed to take a step back and re-evaluate the project.''
 The development agency is spending $30 million on a storm sewer project to improve the land in the corporate park and the adjoining airport site, and $11 million to create a bird and wildlife preserve that will eventually become a city park. It is also planning an $11 million project to widen and improve Linden Place to reduce traffic congestion on other roads.
 But the project's developer and its opponents contend that the Bloomberg administration backed away from the planned wholesale center for political reasons. They say that Mr. Bloomberg, who is facing re-election next year, is loathe to alienate voters by publicly supporting a project that has drawn hundreds of protesters in recent months.
 ''We were fighting by ourselves, without the mayor's support in public,'' said Jay Chung, president of College Point Wholesale Distribution Development. He said that he repeatedly sought help from city officials in facing the project's critics, only to be told that the mayor was in a difficult political position. 
 ''This is unfair, and it's frustrating, and we feel strongly victimized in the midst of all the political dealings,'' he said.
 Mr. Chung said that his group had already spent about a $1 million in design and legal fees to proceed with plans for the 26-acre site. The $220 million project was to have featured a 600,000-square-foot building divided into showrooms where various wholesale businesses would market their wares to distributors, he said.
 Mr. Chung added that the company was considering all options, including legal action against the city. 
 Jennifer Falk, a spokeswoman for Mayor Bloomberg, denied that politics influenced the administration's decision to re-evaluate the plans for the wholesale center. ''This decision was made as a result of understanding what is in the best interests of the community,'' Ms. Falk said.
 Mr. Sherman, of the development agency, said that city officials would continue to work with the developer to find an alternative location for the wholesale center, but he would not say if other sites were under consideration.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Sherman said, city officials now have no other plans for the former Flushing Airport site. 
 City Councilman Tony Avella, whose district includes the airport site, said that he supports ''light recreational use'' -- a miniature golf course, for instance -- but not industrial development. He has helped organize five protests against the project since last winter.
 ''We wanted to see something that wouldn't add to the already overburdened traffic in College Point Corporate Park,'' he said. ''They went ahead and picked the project without telling us. From Day 1, it was a boondoggle.'' 
 As word of the project's demise spread yesterday afternoon, about 40 elected officials and residents gathered at the corner of 20th Avenue and Whitestone Expressway for a victory rally. They waved handwritten placards that pointedly read, ''We Won.''
 ''They say you can't fight City Hall,'' State Assemblywoman Nettie Mayersohn told the cheering crowd. ''But we in fact did.''
 Near the end of the event, Mr. Avella asked people to write letters thanking Mr. Bloomberg.
 The Rev. Marcello Latona, the pastor of Holy Trinity Church, which is a few hundred feet from thesite, said he and others had spoken to congregants, circulated fliers, signed petitions and listed rallies and meetings in the church bulletins -- all with the aim of stopping the project. ''It's difficult for people to get to work,'' he said. ''It's difficult to get from one side of town to another.''
 Damon Clift, 38, a house painter who lives nearby in a 130-year-old home surrounded by tall trees, said that undeveloped areas -- as rare as they are in the city -- should be preserved. 
 ''We want as much green space as possible,'' he said. ''There's too much traffic here already, too much pollution.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Politicians and residents gathered in Queens yesterday to celebrate the city's decision to re-evaluate its plans for the site of Flushing Airport. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (65%); LITIGATION (64%); WILDLIFE (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) Industrial Parks

ORGANIZATION: College Point Corporate Park; College Point Wholesale Distribution Development (Co); Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Winnie Hu; Colin Moynihan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



407 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Will We Need a New 'All the President's Men'?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
SUCH is the power of movies that the first image ''Watergate'' brings to mind three decades later is not Richard Nixon so much as the golden duo of Redford and Hoffman riding to the nation's rescue in ''All the President's Men.'' But if our current presidency is now showing symptoms of a precancerous Watergate syndrome -- as it is, daily -- we have not yet reached that denouement immortalized by Hollywood, in which our scrappy heroes finally bring Nixon to heel in his second term. No, we're back instead in the earlier reels of his first term, before the criminality of the Watergate break-in, when no one had heard of Woodward and Bernstein. Back then an arrogant and secretive White House, furious at the bad press fueled by an unpopular and mismanaged war, was still flying high as it kneecapped with impunity any reporter or news organization that challenged its tightly enforced message of victory at hand. 
 It was then that the vice president, Spiro Agnew, scripted by the speechwriter Pat Buchanan, tried to discredit the press as an elite -- or, as he spelled it out, ''a tiny, enclosed fraternity of privileged men.'' It was then that the attorney general, John Mitchell, under the pretext of national security, countenanced wiretaps of Hedrick Smith of The Times and Marvin Kalb of CBS News, as well as a full F.B.I. investigation of CBS's Daniel Schorr. Today it's John Ashcroft's Justice Department, also invoking ''national security,'' that hopes to seize the phone records of Judith Miller and Philip Shenon of The Times, claiming that what amounts to a virtual wiretap is warranted by articles about Islamic charities and terrorism published nearly three years ago.
 ''The fundamental right of Americans, through our free press, to penetrate and criticize the workings of our government is under attack as never before,'' wrote William Safire last month. When an alumnus of the Nixon White House says our free press is being attacked as ''never before,'' you listen. What alarms him now are the efforts of Patrick Fitzgerald, the special prosecutor in the Valerie Plame-Robert Novak affair, to threaten reporters at The Times and Time magazine with jail if they don't reveal their sources. Given that the Times reporter in question (Judith Miller again) didn't even write an article on the subject under investigation, Mr. Fitzgerald overreaches so far that he's created a sci-fi plot twist out of Steven Spielberg's ''Minority Report.''
 It's all the scarier for being only one piece in a pattern of media intimidation that's been building for months now. Once Woodward and Bernstein did start investigating Watergate, Nixon plotted to take economic revenge by siccing the Federal Communications Commission on TV stations owned by The Washington Post's parent company. The current White House has been practicing pre-emptive media intimidation to match its policy of pre-emptive war. Its F.C.C. chairman, using Janet Jackson's breast and Howard Stern's mouth as pretexts, has sufficiently rattled Viacom, which broadcast both of these entertainers' infractions against ''decency,'' that its chairman, the self-described ''liberal Democrat'' Sumner Redstone, abruptly announced his support for the re-election of George W. Bush last month. ''I vote for what's good for Viacom,'' he explained, and he meant it. He took this loyalty oath just days after the ''60 Minutes'' fiasco prompted a full-fledged political witch hunt on Viacom's CBS News, another Republican target since the Nixon years. Representative Joe Barton, Republican of Texas, has threatened to seek Congressional ''safeguards'' regulating TV news content and, depending what happens Nov. 2, he may well have the political means to do it.
 Viacom is hardly the only media giant cowed by the prospect that this White House might threaten its corporate interests if it gets out of line. Disney's refusal to release Michael Moore's partisan ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' in an election year would smell less if the company applied the same principle to its ABC radio stations, where the equally partisan polemics of Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity are heard every day. Even a low-profile film project in conflict with Bush dogma has spooked the world's largest media company, Time Warner, proprietor of CNN. Its Warner Brothers, about to release a special DVD of ''Three Kings,'' David O. Russell's 1999 movie criticizing the first gulf war, suddenly canceled a planned extra feature, a new Russell documentary criticizing the current war. Whether any of these increasingly craven media combines will stand up to the Bush administration in a constitutional pinch, as Katharine Graham and her Post Company bravely did to the Nixon administration during Watergate, is a proposition that hasn't been remotely tested yet.
 To understand what kind of journalism the Bush administration expects from these companies, you need only look at those that are already its collaborators. Fox News speaks loudly for itself, to the point of posting on its Web site an article by its chief political correspondent containing fictional John Kerry quotes. (After an outcry, it was retracted as ''written in jest.'') But Fox is just the tip of the Rupert Murdoch empire. When The New York Post covered the release of the report by the C.I.A.'s chief weapons inspector, Charles Duelfer, it played the story on page 8 and didn't get to the clause ''while no stockpiles of W.M.D. were found in Iraq'' until the 16th paragraph. This would be an Onion parody were it not deadly serious.
 It's hard to imagine an operation more insidious than Mr. Murdoch's, but the Sinclair Broadcast Group may be it. The owner or operator of 62 TV stations nationwide, including affiliates of all four major broadcast networks, this company gets little press scrutiny because it is invisible in New York City, Washington and Los Angeles, where it has no stations. But Sinclair, whose top executives have maxed out as Bush contributors, was first smoked out of the shadows last spring when John McCain called it ''unpatriotic'' for ordering its eight ABC stations not to broadcast the ''Nightline'' in which Ted Koppel read the names of the then 721 American casualties in Iraq. This was the day after Paul Wolfowitz had also downsized American casualties by testifying before Congress that they numbered only about 500. 
 Thanks to Elizabeth Jensen of The Los Angeles Times, who first broke the story last weekend, we now know that Sinclair has grander ambitions for the election. It has ordered all its stations, whose most powerful reach is in swing states like Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania, to broadcast a ''news'' special featuring a film, ''Stolen Honor,'' that trashes Mr. Kerry along the lines of the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth ads. The film's creator is a man who spent nearly eight years in the employ of Tom Ridge. Sinclair has ordered that it be run in prime time during a specific four nights in late October, when it is likely to be sandwiched in with network hits like ''CSI,'' ''The Apprentice'' and ''Desperate Housewives.'' Democrats are screaming, but don't expect the Bush apparatchiks at federal agencies to pursue their complaints as if they were as serious as a ''wardrobe malfunction.'' A more likely outcome is that Sinclair, which already reaches 24 percent of American viewers, will reap the regulatory favors it is seeking to expand that audience in a second Bush term. 
 Like the Nixon administration before it, the Bush administration arrived at the White House already obsessed with news management and secrecy. Nixon gave fewer press conferences than any president since Hoover; Mr. Bush has given fewer than any in history. Early in the Nixon years, a special National Press Club study concluded that the president had instituted ''an unprecedented, government-wide effort to control, restrict and conceal information.'' Sound familiar? The current president has seen to it that even future historians won't get access to papers he wants to hide; he quietly gutted the Presidential Records Act of 1978, the very reform enacted by Congress as a post-Watergate antidote to pathological Nixonian secrecy.
 The path of the Bush White House as it has moved from Agnew-style press baiting to outright assault has also followed its antecedent. The Nixon administration's first legal attack on the press, a year before the Watergate break-in, was its attempt to stop The Times and The Washington Post from publishing the Pentagon Papers, the leaked internal Defense Department history of our failure in Vietnam. Though 9/11 prompted Ari Fleischer's first effort to warn the media to ''watch what they say,'' it's failure in Iraq that has pushed the Bush administration over the edge. It was when Operation Iraqi Freedom was bogged down early on that it spun the fictional saga of Jessica Lynch. It's when the percentage of Americans who felt it was worth going to war in Iraq fell to 50 percent in the Sept. 2003 Gallup poll, down from 73 that April, that identically worded letters ''signed'' by different soldiers mysteriously materialized in 11 American newspapers, testifying that security for Iraq's citizens had been ''largely restored.'' (As David Greenberg writes in his invaluable ''Nixon's Shadow,'' phony letters to news outlets were also a favorite Nixon tactic.) The legal harassment of the press, like the Republican party's Web-driven efforts to discredit specific journalists even at non-CBS networks, has escalated in direct ratio to the war's decline in support.
 ''What you're seeing on your TV screens,'' the president said when minimizing the Iraq insurgency in May, are ''the desperate tactics of a hateful few.'' Maybe that's the sunny news that can be found on a Sinclair station. Now, with our election less than three weeks away, the bad news coming out of Iraq everywhere else is a torrent. Reporters at virtually every news organization describe a downward spiral so dangerous that they can't venture anywhere in Iraq without risking their lives. Last weekend marines spoke openly and by name to Steve Fainaru of The Washington Post about the quagmire they're witnessing firsthand and its irrelevance to battling Al Qaeda, whose 9/11 attack motivated many of them to enlist in the first place. ''Every day you read the articles in the States where it's like, 'Oh, it's getting better and better,'' said Lance Cpl. Jonathan Snyder of Gettysburg, Pa. ''But when you're here, you know it's worse every day.'' Another marine, Lance Cpl. Alexander Jones of Ball Ground, Ga., told Mr. Fainaru: ''We're basically proving out that the government is wrong. We're catching them in a lie.'' Asked if he was concerned that he and his buddies might be punished for speaking out, Cpl. Brandon Autin of New Iberia, La., responded: ''What are they going to do -- send us to Iraq?''
 What ''they'' can do is try to intimidate, harass, discredit and prosecute news organizations that report stories like this. If history is any guide, and the hubris of re-election is tossed into the mix, that harrowing drama can go on for a long time before we get to the feel-good final act of ''All the President's Men.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Before a happy ending came Watergate. (pg. 1)
 David Smith, chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group. Its ABC affiliates dropped Ted Koppel's recitation of American casualties in Iraq. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); WIRETAPPING (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); ETHICS (64%); TERRORISM (62%); RELIGION (50%) News and News Media; Watergate Affair; News and News Media; Freedom of the Press; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%) Fox News Channel; Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc; New York Times; Time Warner Inc; Viacom Entertainment Group

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%); FRANK RICH (59%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); ADAM SMITH (53%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Judith Miller; Philip Shenon; Richard Milhous (1913-94) Nixon; William Safire; John (Atty Gen) Ashcroft; Frank Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



408 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: John Kerry for President

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry goes toward the election with a base that is built more on opposition to George W. Bush than loyalty to his own candidacy. But over the last year we have come to know Mr. Kerry as more than just an alternative to the status quo. We like what we've seen. He has qualities that could be the basis for a great chief executive, not just a modest improvement on the incumbent. 
 We have been impressed with Mr. Kerry's wide knowledge and clear thinking -- something that became more apparent once he was reined in by that two-minute debate light. He is blessedly willing to re-evaluate decisions when conditions change. And while Mr. Kerry's service in Vietnam was first over-promoted and then over-pilloried, his entire life has been devoted to public service, from the war to a series of elected offices. He strikes us, above all, as a man with a strong moral core.
 There is no denying that this race is mainly about Mr. Bush's disastrous tenure. Nearly four years ago, after the Supreme Court awarded him the presidency, Mr. Bush came into office amid popular expectation that he would acknowledge his lack of a mandate by sticking close to the center. Instead, he turned the government over to the radical right. 
 Mr. Bush installed John Ashcroft, a favorite of the far right with a history of insensitivity to civil liberties, as attorney general. He sent the Senate one ideological, activist judicial nominee after another. He moved quickly to implement a far-reaching anti-choice agenda including censorship of government Web sites and a clampdown on embryonic stem cell research. He threw the government's weight against efforts by the University of Michigan to give minority students an edge in admission, as it did for students from rural areas or the offspring of alumni. 
 When the nation fell into recession, the president remained fixated not on generating jobs but rather on fighting the right wing's war against taxing the wealthy. As a result, money that could have been used to strengthen Social Security evaporated, as did the chance to provide adequate funding for programs the president himself had backed. No Child Left Behind, his signature domestic program, imposed higher standards on local school systems without providing enough money to meet them.
 If Mr. Bush had wanted to make a mark on an issue on which Republicans and Democrats have long made common cause, he could have picked the environment. Christie Whitman, the former New Jersey governor chosen to run the Environmental Protection Agency, came from that bipartisan tradition. Yet she left after three years of futile struggle against the ideologues and industry lobbyists Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney had installed in every other important environmental post. The result has been a systematic weakening of regulatory safeguards across the entire spectrum of environmental issues, from clean air to wilderness protection. 
 The president who lost the popular vote got a real mandate on Sept. 11, 2001. With the grieving country united behind him, Mr. Bush had an unparalleled opportunity to ask for almost any shared sacrifice. The only limit was his imagination.
 He asked for another tax cut and the war against Iraq.
 The president's refusal to drop his tax-cutting agenda when the nation was gearing up for war is perhaps the most shocking example of his inability to change his priorities in the face of drastically altered circumstances. Mr. Bush did not just starve the government of the money it needed for his own education initiative or the Medicare drug bill. He also made tax cuts a higher priority than doing what was needed for America's security; 90 percent of the cargo unloaded every day in the nation's ports still goes uninspected.
 Along with the invasion of Afghanistan, which had near unanimous international and domestic support, Mr. Bush and his attorney general put in place a strategy for a domestic antiterror war that had all the hallmarks of the administration's normal method of doing business: a Nixonian obsession with secrecy, disrespect for civil liberties and inept management. 
 American citizens were detained for long periods without access to lawyers or family members. Immigrants were rounded up and forced to languish in what the Justice Department's own inspector general found were often ''unduly harsh'' conditions. Men captured in the Afghan war were held incommunicado with no right to challenge their confinement. The Justice Department became a cheerleader for skirting decades-old international laws and treaties forbidding the brutal treatment of prisoners taken during wartime.
 Mr. Ashcroft appeared on TV time and again to announce sensational arrests of people who turned out to be either innocent, harmless braggarts or extremely low-level sympathizers of Osama bin Laden who, while perhaps wishing to do something terrible, lacked the means. The Justice Department cannot claim one major successful terrorism prosecution, and has squandered much of the trust and patience the American people freely gave in 2001. Other nations, perceiving that the vast bulk of the prisoners held for so long at Guantanamo Bay came from the same line of ineffectual incompetents or unlucky innocents, and seeing the awful photographs from the Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad, were shocked that the nation that was supposed to be setting the world standard for human rights could behave that way.
 Like the tax cuts, Mr. Bush's obsession with Saddam Hussein seemed closer to zealotry than mere policy. He sold the war to the American people, and to Congress, as an antiterrorist campaign even though Iraq had no known working relationship with Al Qaeda. His most frightening allegation was that Saddam Hussein was close to getting nuclear weapons. It was based on two pieces of evidence. One was a story about attempts to purchase critical materials from Niger, and it was the product of rumor and forgery. The other evidence, the purchase of aluminum tubes that the administration said were meant for a nuclear centrifuge, was concocted by one low-level analyst and had been thoroughly debunked by administration investigators and international vetting. Top members of the administration knew this, but the selling went on anyway. None of the president's chief advisers have ever been held accountable for their misrepresentations to the American people or for their mismanagement of the war that followed.
 The international outrage over the American invasion is now joined by a sense of disdain for the incompetence of the effort. Moderate Arab leaders who have attempted to introduce a modicum of democracy are tainted by their connection to an administration that is now radioactive in the Muslim world. Heads of rogue states, including Iran and North Korea, have been taught decisively that the best protection against a pre-emptive American strike is to acquire nuclear weapons themselves. 
 We have specific fears about what would happen in a second Bush term, particularly regarding the Supreme Court. The record so far gives us plenty of cause for worry. Thanks to Mr. Bush, Jay Bybee, the author of an infamous Justice Department memo justifying the use of torture as an interrogation technique, is now a federal appeals court judge. Another Bush selection, J. Leon Holmes, a federal judge in Arkansas, has written that wives must be subordinate to their husbands and compared abortion rights activists to Nazis.
 Mr. Bush remains enamored of tax cuts but he has never stopped Republican lawmakers from passing massive spending, even for projects he dislikes, like increased farm aid.
 If he wins re-election, domestic and foreign financial markets will know the fiscal recklessness will continue. Along with record trade imbalances, that increases the chances of a financial crisis, like an uncontrolled decline of the dollar, and higher long-term interest rates.
 The Bush White House has always given us the worst aspects of the American right without any of the advantages. We get the radical goals but not the efficient management. The Department of Education's handling of the No Child Left Behind Act has been heavily politicized and inept. The Department of Homeland Security is famous for its useless alerts and its inability to distribute antiterrorism aid according to actual threats. Without providing enough troops to properly secure Iraq, the administration has managed to so strain the resources of our armed forces that the nation is unprepared to respond to a crisis anywhere else in the world. 
 Mr. Kerry has the capacity to do far, far better. He has a willingness -- sorely missing in Washington these days -- to reach across the aisle. We are relieved that he is a strong defender of civil rights, that he would remove unnecessary restrictions on stem cell research and that he understands the concept of separation of church and state. We appreciate his sensible plan to provide health coverage for most of the people who currently do without. 
 Mr. Kerry has an aggressive and in some cases innovative package of ideas about energy, aimed at addressing global warming and oil dependency. He is a longtime advocate of deficit reduction. In the Senate, he worked with John McCain in restoring relations between the United States and Vietnam, and led investigations of the way the international financial system has been gamed to permit the laundering of drug and terror money. He has always understood that America's appropriate role in world affairs is as leader of a willing community of nations, not in my-way-or-the-highway domination. 
 We look back on the past four years with hearts nearly breaking, both for the lives unnecessarily lost and for the opportunities so casually wasted. Time and again, history invited George W. Bush to play a heroic role, and time and again he chose the wrong course. We believe that with John Kerry as president, the nation will do better.
 Voting for president is a leap of faith. A candidate can explain his positions in minute detail and wind up governing with a hostile Congress that refuses to let him deliver. A disaster can upend the best-laid plans. All citizens can do is mix guesswork and hope, examining what the candidates have done in the past, their apparent priorities and their general character. It's on those three grounds that we enthusiastically endorse John Kerry for president.

An endorsement of Senator Charles Schumer for re-election to the Senate appears today in the City, Long Island and Westchester weekly sections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); LOBBYING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); BIOETHICS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); EDUCATION LAW (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (62%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Endorsements (Political)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (59%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) VIET NAM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



409 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-17-04: QUESTIONS FOR WLODZIMIERZ CIMOSZEWICZ; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: And Now, a Word From Our Coalition Member

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q:Poland's defense minister, Jerzy Szmajdzinski, just announced plans to withdraw all 2,500 of your troops from Iraq next year. 
 It is not true. Our minister of defense mentioned that we would like to end our mission at the end of 2005, but that is not the official position of the government.
 If your defense minister doesn't represent the official government, who does? 
 ''The official position of the government'' means the position taken by the Council of Ministers. The official position will be presented soon.
 But are you committed to at least reducing troops, if not withdrawing them altogether? 
 We would like to start reducing the number of our troops after the Iraqi elections. However, understanding our responsibilities, we'll have to make an assessment of the situation in that country.
 When Poland joined the war, did you expect the battle to be so difficult? 
 The present level of the activity of the insurgents and terrorists is higher than we expected. That was at least partly caused by mistakes made by the coalition just after the military operation in Iraq.
 Have you met with the families of the 13 Polish soldiers who have died in Iraq?
 No, I have not. The Polish government was officially represented by the minister of defense.
 It's said that as much as 70 percent of the Polish people are opposed to the country's involvement in Iraq.
 I confirm this figure. 
 At one point, President Bush mentioned restricting lucrative reconstruction contracts in Iraq to members of the coalition. Have any Poles benefited so far?
 It is true that many Polish companies expected to become involved in the economic reconstruction of Iraq, and that has not happened. During President Ghazi al-Yawar's recent visit to Poland, we agreed on a set of contracts with the Iraqi government.
 You have said that French businessmen are the biggest foreign investors in Poland. Do you expect the U.S. to invest more in the future? 
 We are not fully satisfied with the level and type of U.S. investments in Poland, considering the high professional skills of millions of very well-educated Poles. We have been suggesting to the Americans that U.S. high-tech companies are our natural partner. Unfortunately, there has been very little investment of that kind in Poland.
 Have you been watching the televised debates between President Bush and Senator Kerry?
 I will not comment on the present position of the leading contenders.
 Which American presidents do you admire? 
 Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Jimmy Carter.
 You once said President Roosevelt made a mistake when he agreed to divide the world and give Poland to the Soviet Union. Are you saying that Roosevelt sold out to Stalin?
 No one can deny that in Tehran and Yalta, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill decided about the postwar construction of the world, placing Poland on the wrong side of the Iron Curtain.
 Didn't you manage to study in the U.S. during the Communist era? 
 As a Fulbright scholar I was at Columbia University in 1980 to '81. Every weekend I walked the streets of Manhattan. My favorite place is Central Park. Once a year I love to have a real American steak, but once a year is enough.
 What else do you admire about American culture? 
 George Gershwin, great film scores, ''Walking in the Rain.''
 You mean ''Singin' in the Rain''? Walking in the rain is what you did during your time in New York.
 Yes, I meant ''Singin' in the Rain.'' I also admire ''West Side Story,'' jazz, bluegrass and the music of the 60's. Bob Dylan's ''Forever Young'' and ''The Times They Are A-Changin' '' are very special to me.
 Do you thing the times are changing in Iraq?
 Yes, I do. The Iraqi people finally got a chance to live in a state respecting their rights and freedoms. Deborah Solomon


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An interview with the foreign minister of Poland, Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz, on Page 23 of The Times Magazine today includes an outdated reference to his country's commitment to keeping its troops in Iraq. On Friday, after the magazine had gone to press, Prime Minister Marek Belka announced that Poland would begin to withdraw troops at the beginning of 2005. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Gerard Cerles/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%) Biographical Information; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%) Deborah Solomon; Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UKRAINE (79%) Iraq; Poland

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



410 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Bush Hops Through Florida, Where a Slim Lead Is a Lot

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Ohio and Pennsylvania and New Mexico and Iowa and a few other states could well be nail-bitingly competitive on Election Day, but four years after a relative handful of votes determined the outcome of the presidential race, the new Florida may turn out to be -- Florida.
 With most polls giving him at most only a slim edge in the state, President Bush campaigned through Florida on Saturday, making a play for votes in traditionally Democratic areas and suggesting that Senator John Kerry's record on national security made him unfit to be commander in chief. 
 The president plans to return on a get-out-the-vote mission for two days starting on Monday, when the state's early voting program opens. Over the race's final two weeks, said Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, the Bush campaign will blanket Florida ''like the morning dew.'' 
 Mr. Kerry plans to arrive here on Sunday to urge his backers to start going to the polls as both parties crank up their ground game in a state that gave the presidency to Mr. Bush four years ago by 537 votes. 
 Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards, was in Miami on Saturday, highlighting the intensity of the campaign in Florida. 
 ''We're here to ask for your vote and your help,'' Mr. Bush said to whoops from a crowd of thousands of people at the South Florida Fairgrounds near West Palm Beach. ''We're coming close to voting time, and it's time to go to your friends and neighbors and remind them they have a duty in this country to vote.''
 Mr. Bush painted Mr. Kerry as an unabashed liberal whose social values, especially on the touchstone conservative issues of abortion and gay marriage, were extreme and whose economic policies would lead to higher taxes on everyone. 
 But the president put particular focus on his opponent's record on Iraq, noting that Sunday is the first anniversary of Mr. Kerry's vote against $87 billion legislation to pay for military and reconstruction operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Kerry has said he voted against the spending because he wanted it to be financed by rolling back tax cuts on people earning more than $200,000 a year and because Mr. Bush had not set out a plan for stabilizing Iraq. 
 And although the White House at one point threatened to veto the bill over several of its provisions, on Saturday Mr. Bush cast Mr. Kerry's vote as a vote to ''abandon'' troops in combat. 
 In his appearances Saturday at the fairgrounds, in Sunrise and in Daytona Beach, Mr. Bush mocked what he said were Mr. Kerry's shifting positions on the war and the vote.
 ''He's had many, and conflicting, positions on the issue, and it's a case study into why his contradictions call into question his credibility and his ability to lead our nation,'' Mr. Bush said in Sunrise.
 Mr. Bush noted that a month before the vote, Mr. Kerry said it would be irresponsible to defeat the measure. His change of mind on that score, Mr. Bush said, was the result of political pressure as Mr. Kerry was facing a primary challenge from Howard Dean, an antiwar candidate.
 ''Senator Kerry apparently decided supporting the troops, even while they were in harm's way, was not as important as shoring up his own political position,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In a time of great threat to our country, at a time of great challenge in the world, the commander in chief must stand on principle, not the shifting sands of political convenience.''
 The Kerry campaign struck back by noting that it was a year ago Saturday that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld wrote a memo concluding that it would be a ''long hard slog'' to victory in Iraq and Afghanistan and asking whether the United States had the tools it needed to prevail. Wesley K. Clark, the retired general who also challenged Mr. Kerry for the Democratic nomination, told reporters in a conference call Saturday organized by the Kerry campaign that ''the administration really hasn't been effective in marshaling America's capabilities'' to fight terrorism.
 Speaking to a rally in Daytona Beach, Mr. Bush muffed one of his most important lines, saying he would not support an all-volunteer army. He quickly corrected himself, saying he meant he would not support a draft.
 Before returning to Florida on Monday, Mr. Bush will make a brief stop in New Jersey, a trip that many Democrats consider a feint to rattle Mr. Kerry about a state the Democrats once considered locked up for them. Mr. Rove said New Jersey was in play because it was so directly affected by the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center. 
 ''A lot of communities in New Jersey felt personally the sting of 9/11, and that has made them more sensitive as we get close to the end about the question of who will make America safer in the years ahead,'' Mr. Rove said in a reminder of how central Mr. Bush's response to the attacks has been to his political strategy.
 There is no doubt about Florida's status as a battleground. The state is divided politically into three regions, and Mr. Bush's aides and allies said his strategy encompassed all three. It starts, they said, with turning out every possible vote in the solidly conservative Panhandle, where turnout in 2000 was not as high as Republicans had expected.
 In the I-4 corridor, which slashes diagonally across the middle of the state, the campaign is counting on a booming economy to deliver swing voters.
 And in South Florida, where Democrats are strongest, Mr. Bush spent Saturday rousing his pockets of support among Cuban-Americans and conservative Christians while making efforts to peel off portions of specific Democratic constituencies, including Jewish voters who might be open to voting for him because of his strong support for Israel.
 Just before Mr. Bush arrived in West Palm Beach, the White House announced that he had signed the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004, which requires the State Department to document attacks on Jews worldwide each year. Mr. Bush referred to the legislation in his remarks.
 The two parties are fighting hard over non-Cuban Hispanics. Republicans also have high hopes for fast-growing regions like the area around Daytona Beach, where many new voters are independent or unaffiliated, said Susan MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida.
 ''We're at the stage now in Florida where they're slicing and dicing, and the slices are getting pretty thin,'' Ms. MacManus said of the two candidates' strategies. ''But thin slices win elections in Florida.''
 Democrats said they were confident about turning out their base and were making inroads in groups like younger Cuban-Americans, who are not so monolithically Republican as previous generations.
 ''We feel very good about what's happening in Florida,'' said Tad Devine, a senior Kerry strategist.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday with an article about President Bush's campaign trip to Florida referred incorrectly in some copies to the city where he stopped at a Wings Plus restaurant. It was Coral Springs, not Coral Gables.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his brother Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida at Wings Plus, a restaurant in Coral Springs, Fla. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VETO (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); LIBERALISM (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); MARRIAGE (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); TAX LAW (61%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Cuban-Americans; Christians and Christianity

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); KARL ROVE (58%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



411 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 8167 words

HEADLINE: Without a Doubt

BYLINE: By Ron Suskind. 
Ron Suskind was the senior national-affairs reporter for The Wall Street Journal from 1993 to 2000. He is the author most recently of ''The Price of Loyalty: , George W. Bush, the White House and the Education of Paul O'Neill.''

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett, a domestic policy adviser to Ronald Reagan and a treasury official for the first President Bush, told me recently that ''if Bush wins, there will be a civil war in the Republican Party starting on Nov. 3.'' The nature of that conflict, as Bartlett sees it? Essentially, the same as the one raging across much of the world: a battle between modernists and fundamentalists, pragmatists and true believers, reason and religion. 
 ''Just in the past few months,'' Bartlett said, ''I think a light has gone off for people who've spent time up close to Bush: that this instinct he's always talking about is this sort of weird, Messianic idea of what he thinks God has told him to do.'' Bartlett, a 53-year-old columnist and self-described libertarian Republican who has lately been a champion for traditional Republicans concerned about Bush's governance, went on to say: ''This is why George W. Bush is so clear-eyed about Al Qaeda and the Islamic fundamentalist enemy. He believes you have to kill them all. They can't be persuaded, that they're extremists, driven by a dark vision. He understands them, because he's just like them. . . . 
 ''This is why he dispenses with people who confront him with inconvenient facts,'' Bartlett went on to say. ''He truly believes he's on a mission from God. Absolute faith like that overwhelms a need for analysis. The whole thing about faith is to believe things for which there is no empirical evidence.'' Bartlett paused, then said, ''But you can't run the world on faith.''

Forty democratic senators were gathered for a lunch in March just off the Senate floor. I was there as a guest speaker. Joe Biden was telling a story, a story about the president. ''I was in the Oval Office a few months after we swept into Baghdad,'' he began, ''and I was telling the president of my many concerns'' -- concerns about growing problems winning the peace, the explosive mix of Shiite and Sunni, the disbanding of the Iraqi Army and problems securing the oil fields. Bush, Biden recalled, just looked at him, unflappably sure that the United States was on the right course and that all was well. '''Mr. President,' I finally said, 'How can you be so sure when you know you don't know the facts?'''
 Biden said that Bush stood up and put his hand on the senator's shoulder. ''My instincts,'' he said. ''My instincts.''
 Biden paused and shook his head, recalling it all as the room grew quiet. ''I said, 'Mr. President, your instincts aren't good enough!'''

The democrat Biden and the Republican Bartlett are trying to make sense of the same thing -- a president who has been an extraordinary blend of forcefulness and inscrutability, opacity and action.
 But lately, words and deeds are beginning to connect.
 The Delaware senator was, in fact, hearing what Bush's top deputies -- from cabinet members like Paul O'Neill, Christine Todd Whitman and Colin Powell to generals fighting in Iraq -- have been told for years when they requested explanations for many of the president's decisions, policies that often seemed to collide with accepted facts. The president would say that he relied on his ''gut'' or his ''instinct'' to guide the ship of state, and then he ''prayed over it.'' The old pro Bartlett, a deliberative, fact-based wonk, is finally hearing a tune that has been hummed quietly by evangelicals (so as not to trouble the secular) for years as they gazed upon President George W. Bush. This evangelical group -- the core of the energetic ''base'' that may well usher Bush to victory -- believes that their leader is a messenger from God. And in the first presidential debate, many Americans heard the discursive John Kerry succinctly raise, for the first time, the issue of Bush's certainty -- the issue being, as Kerry put it, that ''you can be certain and be wrong.'' 
 What underlies Bush's certainty? And can it be assessed in the temporal realm of informed consent? 
 All of this -- the ''gut'' and ''instincts,'' the certainty and religiosity -connects to a single word, ''faith,'' and faith asserts its hold ever more on debates in this country and abroad. That a deep Christian faith illuminated the personal journey of George W. Bush is common knowledge. But faith has also shaped his presidency in profound, nonreligious ways. The president has demanded unquestioning faith from his followers, his staff, his senior aides and his kindred in the Republican Party. Once he makes a decision -- often swiftly, based on a creed or moral position -- he expects complete faith in its rightness. 
 The disdainful smirks and grimaces that many viewers were surprised to see in the first presidential debate are familiar expressions to those in the administration or in Congress who have simply asked the president to explain his positions. Since 9/11, those requests have grown scarce; Bush's intolerance of doubters has, if anything, increased, and few dare to question him now. A writ of infallibility -- a premise beneath the powerful Bushian certainty that has, in many ways, moved mountains -- is not just for public consumption: it has guided the inner life of the White House. As Whitman told me on the day in May 2003 that she announced her resignation as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: ''In meetings, I'd ask if there were any facts to support our case. And for that, I was accused of disloyalty!'' (Whitman, whose faith in Bush has since been renewed, denies making these remarks and is now a leader of the president's re-election effort in New Jersey.)

The nation's founders, smarting still from the punitive pieties of Europe's state religions, were adamant about erecting a wall between organized religion and political authority. But suddenly, that seems like a long time ago. George W. Bush -- both captive and creator of this moment -- has steadily, inexorably, changed the office itself. He has created the faith-based presidency.
 The faith-based presidency is a with-us-or-against-us model that has been enormously effective at, among other things, keeping the workings and temperament of the Bush White House a kind of state secret. The dome of silence cracked a bit in the late winter and spring, with revelations from the former counterterrorism czar Richard Clarke and also, in my book, from the former Bush treasury secretary Paul O'Neill. When I quoted O'Neill saying that Bush was like ''a blind man in a room full of deaf people,'' this did not endear me to the White House. But my phone did begin to ring, with Democrats and Republicans calling with similar impressions and anecdotes about Bush's faith and certainty. These are among the sources I relied upon for this article. Few were willing to talk on the record. Some were willing to talk because they said they thought George W. Bush might lose; others, out of fear of what might transpire if he wins. In either case, there seems to be a growing silence fatigue -- public servants, some with vast experience, who feel they have spent years being treated like Victorian-era children, seen but not heard, and are tired of it. But silence still reigns in the highest reaches of the White House. After many requests, Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, said in a letter that the president and those around him would not be cooperating with this article in any way.
 Some officials, elected or otherwise, with whom I have spoken with left meetings in the Oval Office concerned that the president was struggling with the demands of the job. Others focused on Bush's substantial interpersonal gifts as a compensation for his perceived lack of broader capabilities. Still others, like Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, a Democrat, are worried about something other than his native intelligence. ''He's plenty smart enough to do the job,'' Levin said. ''It's his lack of curiosity about complex issues which troubles me.'' But more than anything else, I heard expressions of awe at the president's preternatural certainty and wonderment about its source. 
 There is one story about Bush's particular brand of certainty I am able to piece together and tell for the record. 
 In the Oval Office in December 2002, the president met with a few ranking senators and members of the House, both Republicans and Democrats. In those days, there were high hopes that the United States-sponsored ''road map'' for the Israelis and Palestinians would be a pathway to peace, and the discussion that wintry day was, in part, about countries providing peacekeeping forces in the region. The problem, everyone agreed, was that a number of European countries, like France and Germany, had armies that were not trusted by either the Israelis or Palestinians. One congressman -- the Hungarian-born Tom Lantos, a Democrat from California and the only Holocaust survivor in Congress -- mentioned that the Scandinavian countries were viewed more positively. Lantos went on to describe for the president how the Swedish Army might be an ideal candidate to anchor a small peacekeeping force on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Sweden has a well-trained force of about 25,000. The president looked at him appraisingly, several people in the room recall.
 ''I don't know why you're talking about Sweden,'' Bush said. ''They're the neutral one. They don't have an army.''
 Lantos paused, a little shocked, and offered a gentlemanly reply: ''Mr. President, you may have thought that I said Switzerland. They're the ones that are historically neutral, without an army.'' Then Lantos mentioned, in a gracious aside, that the Swiss do have a tough national guard to protect the country in the event of invasion.
 Bush held to his view. ''No, no, it's Sweden that has no army.''
 The room went silent, until someone changed the subject.
 A few weeks later, members of Congress and their spouses gathered with administration officials and other dignitaries for the White House Christmas party. The president saw Lantos and grabbed him by the shoulder. ''You were right,'' he said, with bonhomie. ''Sweden does have an army.''
 This story was told to me by one of the senators in the Oval Office that December day, Joe Biden. Lantos, a liberal Democrat, would not comment about it. In general, people who meet with Bush will not discuss their encounters. (Lantos, through a spokesman, says it is a longstanding policy of his not to discuss Oval Office meetings.)
 This is one key feature of the faith-based presidency: open dialogue, based on facts, is not seen as something of inherent value. It may, in fact, create doubt, which undercuts faith. It could result in a loss of confidence in the decision-maker and, just as important, by the decision-maker. Nothing could be more vital, whether staying on message with the voters or the terrorists or a California congressman in a meeting about one of the world's most nagging problems. As Bush himself has said any number of times on the campaign trail, ''By remaining resolute and firm and strong, this world will be peaceful.''

He didn't always talk this way. A precious glimpse of Bush, just as he was ascending to the presidency, comes from Jim Wallis, a man with the added advantage of having deep acuity about the struggles between fact and faith. Wallis, an evangelical pastor who for 30 years has run the Sojourners -- a progressive organization of advocates for social justice -- was asked during the transition to help pull together a diverse group of members of the clergy to talk about faith and poverty with the new president-elect.
 In December 2000, Bush sat in the classroom of a Baptist church in Austin, Tex., with 30 or so clergy members and asked, ''How do I speak to the soul of the nation?'' He listened as each guest articulated a vision of what might be. The afternoon hours passed. No one wanted to leave. People rose from their chairs and wandered the room, huddling in groups, conversing passionately. In one cluster, Bush and Wallis talked of their journeys.
 ''I've never lived around poor people,'' Wallis remembers Bush saying. ''I don't know what they think. I really don't know what they think. I'm a white Republican guy who doesn't get it. How do I get it?''
 Wallis recalls replying, ''You need to listen to the poor and those who live and work with poor people.''
 Bush called over his speechwriter, Michael Gerson, and said, ''I want you to hear this.'' A month later, an almost identical line -- ''many in our country do not know the pain of poverty, but we can listen to those who do'' -- ended up in the inaugural address.
 That was an earlier Bush, one rather more open and conversant, matching his impulsiveness with a can-do attitude and seemingly unafraid of engaging with a diverse group. The president has an array of interpersonal gifts that fit well with this fearlessness -- a headlong, unalloyed quality, best suited to ranging among different types of people, searching for the outlines of what will take shape as principles.
 Yet this strong suit, an improvisational gift, has long been forced to wrestle with its ''left brain'' opposite -- a struggle, across 30 years, with the critical and analytical skills so prized in America's professional class. In terms of intellectual faculties, that has been the ongoing battle for this talented man, first visible during the lackluster years at Yale and five years of drift through his 20's -- a time when peers were busy building credentials in law, business or medicine.
 Biden, who early on became disenchanted with Bush's grasp of foreign-policy issues and is among John Kerry's closest Senate friends, has spent a lot of time trying to size up the president. ''Most successful people are good at identifying, very early, their strengths and weaknesses, at knowing themselves,'' he told me not long ago. ''For most of us average Joes, that meant we've relied on strengths but had to work on our weakness -- to lift them to adequacy -- otherwise they might bring us down. I don't think the president really had to do that, because he always had someone there -- his family or friends -- to bail him out. I don't think, on balance, that has served him well for the moment he's in now as president. He never seems to have worked on his weaknesses.'' 
 Bush has been called the C.E.O. president, but that's just a catch phrase -- he never ran anything of consequence in the private sector. The M.B.A. president would be more accurate: he did, after all, graduate from Harvard Business School. And some who have worked under him in the White House and know about business have spotted a strange business-school time warp. It's as if a 1975 graduate from H.B.S. -- one who had little chance to season theory with practice during the past few decades of change in corporate America -- has simply been dropped into the most challenging management job in the world.
 One aspect of the H.B.S. method, with its emphasis on problems of actual corporations, is sometimes referred to as the ''case cracker'' problem. The case studies are static, generally a snapshot of a troubled company, frozen in time; the various ''solutions'' students proffer, and then defend in class against tough questioning, tend to have very short shelf lives. They promote rigidity, inappropriate surety. This is something H.B.S. graduates, most of whom land at large or midsize firms, learn in their first few years in business. They discover, often to their surprise, that the world is dynamic, it flows and changes, often for no good reason. The key is flexibility, rather than sticking to your guns in a debate, and constant reassessment of shifting realities. In short, thoughtful second-guessing.
 George W. Bush, who went off to Texas to be an oil wildcatter, never had a chance to learn these lessons about the power of nuanced, fact-based analysis. The small oil companies he ran tended to lose money; much of their value was as tax shelters. (The investors were often friends of his father's.) Later, with the Texas Rangers baseball team, he would act as an able front man but never really as a boss. 
 Instead of learning the limitations of his Harvard training, what George W. Bush learned instead during these fitful years were lessons about faith and its particular efficacy. It was in 1985, around the time of his 39th birthday, George W. Bush says, that his life took a sharp turn toward salvation. At that point he was drinking, his marriage was on the rocks, his career was listless. Several accounts have emerged from those close to Bush about a faith ''intervention'' of sorts at the Kennebunkport family compound that year. Details vary, but here's the gist of what I understand took place. George W., drunk at a party, crudely insulted a friend of his mother's. George senior and Barbara blew up. Words were exchanged along the lines of something having to be done. George senior, then the vice president, dialed up his friend, Billy Graham, who came to the compound and spent several days with George W. in probing exchanges and walks on the beach. George W. was soon born again. He stopped drinking, attended Bible study and wrestled with issues of fervent faith. A man who was lost was saved.
 His marriage may have been repaired by the power of faith, but faith was clearly having little impact on his broken career. Faith heals the heart and the spirit, but it doesn't do much for analytical skills. In 1990, a few years after receiving salvation, Bush was still bumping along. Much is apparent from one of the few instances of disinterested testimony to come from this period. It is the voice of David Rubenstein, managing director and cofounder of the Carlyle Group, the Washington-based investment firm that is one of the town's most powerful institutions and a longtime business home for the president's father. In 1989, the catering division of Marriott was taken private and established as Caterair by a group of Carlyle investors. Several old-guard Republicans, including the former Nixon aide Fred Malek, were involved.
 Rubenstein described that time to a convention of pension managers in Los Angeles last year, recalling that Malek approached him and said: ''There is a guy who would like to be on the board. He's kind of down on his luck a bit. Needs a job. . . . Needs some board positions.'' Though Rubenstein didn't think George W. Bush, then in his mid-40's, ''added much value,'' he put him on the Caterair board. ''Came to all the meetings,'' Rubenstein told the conventioneers. ''Told a lot of jokes. Not that many clean ones. And after a while I kind of said to him, after about three years: 'You know, I'm not sure this is really for you. Maybe you should do something else. Because I don't think you're adding that much value to the board. You don't know that much about the company.' He said: 'Well, I think I'm getting out of this business anyway. And I don't really like it that much. So I'm probably going to resign from the board.' And I said thanks. Didn't think I'd ever see him again.''
 Bush would soon officially resign from Caterair's board. Around this time, Karl Rove set up meetings to discuss Bush's possible candidacy for the governorship of Texas. Six years after that, he was elected leader of the free world and began ''case cracking'' on a dizzying array of subjects, proffering his various solutions, in both foreign and domestic affairs. But the pointed ''defend your position'' queries -- so central to the H.B.S. method and rigorous analysis of all kinds -- were infrequent. Questioning a regional supervisor or V.P. for planning is one thing. Questioning the president of the United States is another.
 Still, some couldn't resist. As I reported in ''The Price of Loyalty,'' at the Bush administration's first National Security Council meeting, Bush asked if anyone had ever met Ariel Sharon. Some were uncertain if it was a joke. It wasn't: Bush launched into a riff about briefly meeting Sharon two years before, how he wouldn't ''go by past reputations when it comes to Sharon. . . . I'm going to take him at face value,'' and how the United States should pull out of the Arab-Israeli conflict because ''I don't see much we can do over there at this point.'' Colin Powell, for one, seemed startled. This would reverse 30 years of policy -- since the Nixon administration -- of American engagement. Such a move would unleash Sharon, Powell countered, and tear the delicate fabric of the Mideast in ways that might be irreparable. Bush brushed aside Powell's concerns impatiently. ''Sometimes a show of force by one side can really clarify things.''
 Such challenges -- from either Powell or his opposite number as the top official in domestic policy, Paul O'Neill -- were trials that Bush had less and less patience for as the months passed. He made that clear to his top lieutenants. Gradually, Bush lost what Richard Perle, who would later head a largely private-sector group under Bush called the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee, had described as his open posture during foreign-policy tutorials prior to the 2000 campaign. (''He had the confidence to ask questions that revealed he didn't know very much,'' Perle said.) By midyear 2001, a stand-and-deliver rhythm was established. Meetings, large and small, started to take on a scripted quality. Even then, the circle around Bush was tightening. Top officials, from cabinet members on down, were often told when they would speak in Bush's presence, for how long and on what topic. The president would listen without betraying any reaction. Sometimes there would be cross-discussions -- Powell and Rumsfeld, for instance, briefly parrying on an issue -- but the president would rarely prod anyone with direct, informed questions.
 Each administration, over the course of a term, is steadily shaped by its president, by his character, personality and priorities. It is a process that unfolds on many levels. There are, of course, a chief executive's policies, which are executed by a staff and attending bureaucracies. But a few months along, officials, top to bottom, will also start to adopt the boss's phraseology, his presumptions, his rhythms. If a president fishes, people buy poles; if he expresses displeasure, aides get busy finding evidence to support the judgment. A staff channels the leader.
 A cluster of particularly vivid qualities was shaping George W. Bush's White House through the summer of 2001: a disdain for contemplation or deliberation, an embrace of decisiveness, a retreat from empiricism, a sometimes bullying impatience with doubters and even friendly questioners. Already Bush was saying, Have faith in me and my decisions, and you'll be rewarded. All through the White House, people were channeling the boss. He didn't second-guess himself; why should they? 
 Considering the trials that were soon to arrive, it is easy to overlook what a difficult time this must have been for George W. Bush. For nearly three decades, he had sat in classrooms, and then at mahogany tables in corporate suites, with little to contribute. Then, as governor of Texas, he was graced with a pliable enough bipartisan Legislature, and the Legislature is where the real work in that state's governance gets done. The Texas Legislature's tension of opposites offered the structure of point and counterpoint, which Bush could navigate effectively with his strong, improvisational skills. 
 But the mahogany tables were now in the Situation Room and in the large conference room adjacent to the Oval Office. He guided a ruling party. Every issue that entered that rarefied sanctum required a complex decision, demanding focus, thoroughness and analytical potency.
 For the president, as Biden said, to be acutely aware of his weaknesses -- and to have to worry about revealing uncertainty or need or confusion, even to senior officials -- must have presented an untenable bind. By summer's end that first year, Vice President Dick Cheney had stopped talking in meetings he attended with Bush. They would talk privately, or at their weekly lunch. The president was spending a lot of time outside the White House, often at the ranch, in the presence of only the most trustworthy confidants. The circle around Bush is the tightest around any president in the modern era, and ''it's both exclusive and exclusionary,'' Christopher DeMuth, president of the American Enterprise Institute, the neoconservative policy group, told me. ''It's a too tightly managed decision-making process. When they make decisions, a very small number of people are in the room, and it has a certain effect of constricting the range of alternatives being offered.''

On Sept. 11, 2001, the country watched intently to see if and how Bush would lead. After a couple of days in which he seemed shaky and uncertain, he emerged, and the moment he began to lead -- standing on the World Trade Center's rubble with a bullhorn -- for much of America, any lingering doubts about his abilities vanished. No one could afford doubt, not then. They wanted action, and George W. Bush was ready, having never felt the reasonable hesitations that slowed more deliberative men, and many presidents, including his father.
 Within a few days of the attacks, Bush decided on the invasion of Afghanistan and was barking orders. His speech to the joint session of Congress on Sept. 20 will most likely be the greatest of his presidency. He prayed for God's help. And many Americans, of all faiths, prayed with him -- or for him. It was simple and nondenominational: a prayer that he'd be up to this moment, so that he -- and, by extension, we as a country -- would triumph in that dark hour.
 This is where the faith-based presidency truly takes shape. Faith, which for months had been coloring the decision-making process and a host of political tactics -- think of his address to the nation on stem-cell research -- now began to guide events. It was the most natural ascension: George W. Bush turning to faith in his darkest moment and discovering a wellspring of power and confidence.
 Of course, the mandates of sound, sober analysis didn't vanish. They never do. Ask any entrepreneur with a blazing idea when, a few years along, the first debt payments start coming due. Or the C.E.O., certain that a high stock price affirms his sweeping vision, until that neglected, flagging division cripples the company. There's a startled look -- how'd that happen? In this case, the challenge of mobilizing the various agencies of the United States government and making certain that agreed-upon goals become demonstrable outcomes grew exponentially. 
 Looking back at the months directly following 9/11, virtually every leading military analyst seems to believe that rather than using Afghan proxies, we should have used more American troops, deployed more quickly, to pursue Osama bin Laden in the mountains of Tora Bora. Many have also been critical of the president's handling of Saudi Arabia, home to 15 of the 19 hijackers; despite Bush's setting goals in the so-called ''financial war on terror,'' the Saudis failed to cooperate with American officials in hunting for the financial sources of terror. Still, the nation wanted bold action and was delighted to get it. Bush's approval rating approached 90 percent. Meanwhile, the executive's balance between analysis and resolution, between contemplation and action, was being tipped by the pull of righteous faith.
 It was during a press conference on Sept. 16, in response to a question about homeland security efforts infringing on civil rights, that Bush first used the telltale word ''crusade'' in public. ''This is a new kind of -- a new kind of evil,'' he said. ''And we understand. And the American people are beginning to understand. This crusade, this war on terrorism is going to take a while.''
 Muslims around the world were incensed. Two days later, Ari Fleischer tried to perform damage control. ''I think what the president was saying was -- had no intended consequences for anybody, Muslim or otherwise, other than to say that this is a broad cause that he is calling on America and the nations around the world to join.'' As to ''any connotations that would upset any of our partners, or anybody else in the world, the president would regret if anything like that was conveyed.''
 A few months later, on Feb. 1, 2002, Jim Wallis of the Sojourners stood in the Roosevelt Room for the introduction of Jim Towey as head of the president's faith-based and community initiative. John DiIulio, the original head, had left the job feeling that the initiative was not about ''compassionate conservatism,'' as originally promised, but rather a political giveaway to the Christian right, a way to consolidate and energize that part of the base.
 Moments after the ceremony, Bush saw Wallis. He bounded over and grabbed the cheeks of his face, one in each hand, and squeezed. ''Jim, how ya doin', how ya doin'!'' he exclaimed. Wallis was taken aback. Bush excitedly said that his massage therapist had given him Wallis's book, ''Faith Works.'' His joy at seeing Wallis, as Wallis and others remember it, was palpable -- a president, wrestling with faith and its role at a time of peril, seeing that rare bird: an independent counselor. Wallis recalls telling Bush he was doing fine, '''but in the State of the Union address a few days before, you said that unless we devote all our energies, our focus, our resources on this war on terrorism, we're going to lose.' I said, 'Mr. President, if we don't devote our energy, our focus and our time on also overcoming global poverty and desperation, we will lose not only the war on poverty, but we'll lose the war on terrorism.'''
 Bush replied that that was why America needed the leadership of Wallis and other members of the clergy. 
 ''No, Mr. President,'' Wallis says he told Bush, ''We need your leadership on this question, and all of us will then commit to support you. Unless we drain the swamp of injustice in which the mosquitoes of terrorism breed, we'll never defeat the threat of terrorism.''
 Bush looked quizzically at the minister, Wallis recalls. They never spoke again after that.
 ''When I was first with Bush in Austin, what I saw was a self-help Methodist, very open, seeking,'' Wallis says now. ''What I started to see at this point was the man that would emerge over the next year -- a messianic American Calvinist. He doesn't want to hear from anyone who doubts him.'' 
 But with a country crying out for intrepid leadership, does a president have time to entertain doubters? In a speech in Alaska two weeks later, Bush again referred to the war on terror as a ''crusade.''
 In the summer of 2002, after I had written an article in Esquire that the White House didn't like about Bush's former communications director, Karen Hughes, I had a meeting with a senior adviser to Bush. He expressed the White House's displeasure, and then he told me something that at the time I didn't fully comprehend -- but which I now believe gets to the very heart of the Bush presidency.
 The aide said that guys like me were ''in what we call the reality-based community,'' which he defined as people who ''believe that solutions emerge from your judicious study of discernible reality.'' I nodded and murmured something about enlightenment principles and empiricism. He cut me off. ''That's not the way the world really works anymore,'' he continued. ''We're an empire now, and when we act, we create our own reality. And while you're studying that reality -- judiciously, as you will -- we'll act again, creating other new realities, which you can study too, and that's how things will sort out. We're history's actors . . . and you, all of you, will be left to just study what we do.''
 Who besides guys like me are part of the reality-based community? Many of the other elected officials in Washington, it would seem. A group of Democratic and Republican members of Congress were called in to discuss Iraq sometime before the October 2002 vote authorizing Bush to move forward. A Republican senator recently told Time Magazine that the president walked in and said: ''Look, I want your vote. I'm not going to debate it with you.'' When one of the senators began to ask a question, Bush snapped, ''Look, I'm not going to debate it with you.''
 The 9/11 commission did not directly address the question of whether Bush exerted influence over the intelligence community about the existence of weapons of mass destruction. That question will be investigated after the election, but if no tangible evidence of undue pressure is found, few officials or alumni of the administration whom I spoke to are likely to be surprised. ''If you operate in a certain way -- by saying this is how I want to justify what I've already decided to do, and I don't care how you pull it off -- you guarantee that you'll get faulty, one-sided information,'' Paul O'Neill, who was asked to resign his post of treasury secretary in December 2002, said when we had dinner a few weeks ago. ''You don't have to issue an edict, or twist arms, or be overt.'' 
 In a way, the president got what he wanted: a National Intelligence Estimate on W.M.D. that creatively marshaled a few thin facts, and then Colin Powell putting his credibility on the line at the United Nations in a show of faith. That was enough for George W. Bush to press forward and invade Iraq. As he told his quasi-memoirist, Bob Woodward, in ''Plan of Attack'': ''Going into this period, I was praying for strength to do the Lord's will. . . . I'm surely not going to justify the war based upon God. Understand that. Nevertheless, in my case, I pray to be as good a messenger of his will as possible.''
 Machiavelli's oft-cited line about the adequacy of the perception of power prompts a question. Is the appearance of confidence as important as its possession? Can confidence -- true confidence -- be willed? Or must it be earned?
 George W. Bush, clearly, is one of history's great confidence men. That is not meant in the huckster's sense, though many critics claim that on the war in Iraq, the economy and a few other matters he has engaged in some manner of bait-and-switch. No, I mean it in the sense that he's a believer in the power of confidence. At a time when constituents are uneasy and enemies are probing for weaknesses, he clearly feels that unflinching confidence has an almost mystical power. It can all but create reality. 

Whether you can run the world on faith, it's clear you can run one hell of a campaign on it.
 George W. Bush and his team have constructed a high-performance electoral engine. The soul of this new machine is the support of millions of likely voters, who judge his worth based on intangibles -- character, certainty, fortitude and godliness -- rather than on what he says or does. The deeper the darkness, the brighter this filament of faith glows, a faith in the president and the just God who affirms him.
 The leader of the free world is clearly comfortable with this calculus and artfully encourages it. In the series of televised, carefully choreographed ''Ask President Bush'' events with supporters around the country, sessions filled with prayers and blessings, one questioner recently summed up the feelings of so many Christian conservatives, the core of the Bush army. ''I've voted Republican from the very first time I could vote,'' said Gary Walby, a retired jeweler from Destin, Fla., as he stood before the president in a crowded college gym. ''And I also want to say this is the very first time that I have felt that God was in the White House.'' Bush simply said ''thank you'' as a wave of raucous applause rose from the assembled.
 Every few months, a report surfaces of the president using strikingly Messianic language, only to be dismissed by the White House. Three months ago, for instance, in a private meeting with Amish farmers in Lancaster County, Pa., Bush was reported to have said, ''I trust God speaks through me.'' In this ongoing game of winks and nods, a White House spokesman denied the president had specifically spoken those words, but noted that ''his faith helps him in his service to people.''
 A recent Gallup Poll noted that 42 percent of Americans identify themselves as evangelical or ''born again.'' While this group leans Republican, it includes black urban churches and is far from monolithic. But Bush clearly draws his most ardent supporters and tireless workers from this group, many from a healthy subset of approximately four million evangelicals who didn't vote in 2000 -- potential new arrivals to the voting booth who could tip a close election or push a tight contest toward a rout.
 This signaling system -- forceful, national, varied, yet clean of the president's specific fingerprint -- carries enormous weight. Lincoln Chafee, the moderate Republican senator from Rhode Island, has broken with the president precisely over concerns about the nature of Bush's certainty. ''This issue,'' he says, of Bush's ''announcing that 'I carry the word of God' is the key to the election. The president wants to signal to the base with that message, but in the swing states he does not.''
 Come to the hustings on Labor Day and meet the base. In 2004, you know a candidate by his base, and the Bush campaign is harnessing the might of churches, with hordes of voters registering through church-sponsored programs. Following the news of Bush on his national tour in the week after the Republican convention, you could sense how a faith-based president campaigns: on a surf of prayer and righteous rage.
 Righteous rage -- that's what Hardy Billington felt when he heard about same-sex marriage possibly being made legal in Massachusetts. ''It made me upset and disgusted, things going on in Massachusetts,'' the 52-year-old from Poplar Bluff, Mo., told me. ''I prayed, then I got to work.'' Billington spent $830 in early July to put up a billboard on the edge of town. It read: ''I Support President Bush and the Men and Women Fighting for Our Country. We Invite President Bush to Visit Poplar Bluff.'' Soon Billington and his friend David Hahn, a fundamentalist preacher, started a petition drive. They gathered 10,000 signatures. That fact eventually reached the White House scheduling office. 
 By late afternoon on a cloudy Labor Day, with a crowd of more than 20,000 assembled in a public park, Billington stepped to the podium. ''The largest group I ever talked to I think was seven people, and I'm not much of a talker,'' Billington, a shy man with three kids and a couple of dozen rental properties that he owns, told me several days later. ''I've never been so frightened.''
 But Billington said he ''looked to God'' and said what was in his heart. ''The United States is the greatest country in the world,'' he told the rally. ''President Bush is the greatest president I have ever known. I love my president. I love my country. And more important, I love Jesus Christ.''
 The crowd went wild, and they went wild again when the president finally arrived and gave his stump speech. There were Bush's periodic stumbles and gaffes, but for the followers of the faith-based president, that was just fine. They got it -- and ''it'' was the faith. 
 And for those who don't get it? That was explained to me in late 2002 by Mark McKinnon, a longtime senior media adviser to Bush, who now runs his own consulting firm and helps the president. He started by challenging me. ''You think he's an idiot, don't you?'' I said, no, I didn't. ''No, you do, all of you do, up and down the West Coast, the East Coast, a few blocks in southern Manhattan called Wall Street. Let me clue you in. We don't care. You see, you're outnumbered 2 to 1 by folks in the big, wide middle of America, busy working people who don't read The New York Times or Washington Post or The L.A. Times. And you know what they like? They like the way he walks and the way he points, the way he exudes confidence. They have faith in him. And when you attack him for his malaprops, his jumbled syntax, it's good for us. Because you know what those folks don't like? They don't like you!'' In this instance, the final ''you,'' of course, meant the entire reality-based community. 
 The bond between Bush and his base is a bond of mutual support. He supports them with his actions, doing his level best to stand firm on wedge issues like abortion and same-sex marriage while he identifies evil in the world, at home and abroad. They respond with fierce faith. The power of this transaction is something that people, especially those who are religious, tend to connect to their own lives. If you have faith in someone, that person is filled like a vessel. Your faith is the wind beneath his or her wings. That person may well rise to the occasion and surprise you: I had faith in you, and my faith was rewarded. Or, I know you've been struggling, and I need to pray harder.
 Bush's speech that day in Poplar Bluff finished with a mythic appeal: ''For all Americans, these years in our history will always stand apart,'' he said. ''You know, there are quiet times in the life of a nation when little is expected of its leaders. This isn't one of those times. This is a time that needs -- when we need firm resolve and clear vision and a deep faith in the values that make us a great nation.''
 The life of the nation and the life of Bush effortlessly merge -- his fortitude, even in the face of doubters, is that of the nation; his ordinariness, like theirs, is heroic; his resolve, to whatever end, will turn the wheel of history.
 Remember, this is consent, informed by the heart and by the spirit. In the end, Bush doesn't have to say he's ordained by God. After a day of speeches by Hardy Billington and others, it goes without saying.
 ''To me, I just believe God controls everything, and God uses the president to keep evil down, to see the darkness and protect this nation,'' Billington told me, voicing an idea shared by millions of Bush supporters. ''Other people will not protect us. God gives people choices to make. God gave us this president to be the man to protect the nation at this time.''
 But when the moment came in the V.I.P. tent to shake Bush's hand, Billington remembered being reserved. '''I really thank God that you're the president' was all I told him.'' Bush, he recalled, said, ''Thank you.''
 ''He knew what I meant,'' Billington said. ''I believe he's an instrument of God, but I have to be careful about what I say, you know, in public.''
 Is there anyone in America who feels that John Kerry is an instrument of God? 

''I'm going to be real positive, while I keep my foot on John Kerry's throat,'' George W. Bush said last month at a confidential luncheon a block away from the White House with a hundred or so of his most ardent, longtime supporters, the so-called R.N.C. Regents. This was a high-rolling crowd -- at one time or another, they had all given large contributions to Bush or the Republican National Committee. Bush had known many of them for years, and a number of them had visited him at the ranch. It was a long way from Poplar Bluff.
 The Bush these supporters heard was a triumphal Bush, actively beginning to plan his second term. It is a second term, should it come to pass, that will alter American life in many ways, if predictions that Bush voiced at the luncheon come true.
 He said emphatically that he expects the Republicans will gain seats to expand their control of the House and the Senate. According to notes provided to me, and according to several guests at the lunch who agreed to speak about what they heard, he said that ''Osama bin Laden would like to overthrow the Saudis . . . 
 then we're in trouble. Because they have a weapon. They have the oil.'' He said that there will be an opportunity to appoint a Supreme Court justice shortly after his inauguration, and perhaps three more high-court vacancies during his second term. 
 ''Won't that be amazing?'' said Peter Stent, a rancher and conservationist who attended the luncheon. ''Can you imagine? Four appointments!''
 After his remarks, Bush opened it up for questions, and someone asked what he's going to do about energy policy with worldwide oil reserves predicted to peak.
 Bush said: ''I'm going to push nuclear energy, drilling in Alaska and clean coal. Some nuclear-fusion technologies are interesting.'' He mentions energy from ''processing corn.''
 ''I'm going to bring all this up in the debate, and I'm going to push it,'' he said, and then tried out a line. ''Do you realize that ANWR [the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge] is the size of South Carolina, and where we want to drill is the size of the Columbia airport?''
 The questions came from many directions -- respectful, but clearly reality-based. About the deficits, he said he'd ''spend whatever it takes to protect our kids in Iraq,'' that ''homeland security cost more than I originally thought.''
 In response to a question, he talked about diversity, saying that ''hands down,'' he has the most diverse senior staff in terms of both gender and race. He recalled a meeting with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. ''You know, I'm sitting there with Schroder one day with Colin and Condi. And I'm thinking: What's Schroder thinking?! He's sitting here with two blacks and one's a woman.''
 But as the hour passed, Bush kept coming back to the thing most on his mind: his second term.
 ''I'm going to come out strong after my swearing in,'' Bush said, ''with fundamental tax reform, tort reform, privatizing of Social Security.'' The victories he expects in November, he said, will give us ''two years, at least, until the next midterm. We have to move quickly, because after that I'll be quacking like a duck.''
 Joseph Gildenhorn, a top contributor who attended the luncheon and has been invited to visit Bush at his ranch, said later: ''I've never seen the president so ebullient. He was so confident. He feels so strongly he will win.'' Yet one part of Bush's 60-odd-minute free-form riff gave Gildenhorn -- a board member of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and a former ambassador to Switzerland -- a moment's pause. The president, listing priorities for his second term, placed near the top of his agenda the expansion of federal support for faith-based institutions. The president talked at length about giving the initiative the full measure of his devotion and said that questions about separation of church and state were not an issue. 
 Talk of the faith-based initiative, Gildenhorn said, makes him ''a little uneasy.'' Many conservative evangelicals ''feel they have a direct line from God,'' he said, and feel Bush is divinely chosen.
 ''I think he's religious, I think he's a born-again, I don't think, though, that he feels that he's been ordained by God to serve the country.'' Gildenhorn paused, then said, ''But you know, I really haven't discussed it with him.''
 A regent I spoke to later and who asked not to be identified told me: ''I'm happy he's certain of victory and that he's ready to burst forth into his second term, but it all makes me a little nervous. There are a lot of big things that he's planning to do domestically, and who knows what countries we might invade or what might happen in Iraq. But when it gets complex, he seems to turn to prayer or God rather than digging in and thinking things through. What's that line? -- the devil's in the details. If you don't go after that devil, he'll come after you.'' 

Bush grew into one of history's most forceful leaders, his admirers will attest, by replacing hesitation and reasonable doubt with faith and clarity. Many more will surely tap this high-voltage connection of fervent faith and bold action. In politics, the saying goes, anything that works must be repeated until it is replaced by something better. The horizon seems clear of competitors.
 Can the unfinished American experiment in self-governance -- sputtering on the watery fuel of illusion and assertion -- deal with something as nuanced as the subtleties of one man's faith? What, after all, is the nature of the particular conversation the president feels he has with God -- a colloquy upon which the world now precariously turns? 
 That very issue is what Jim Wallis wishes he could sit and talk about with George W. Bush. That's impossible now, he says. He is no longer invited to the White House.
 ''Faith can cut in so many ways,'' he said. ''If you're penitent and not triumphal, it can move us to repentance and accountability and help us reach for something higher than ourselves. That can be a powerful thing, a thing that moves us beyond politics as usual, like Martin Luther King did. But when it's designed to certify our righteousness -- that can be a dangerous thing. Then it pushes self-criticism aside. There's no reflection.
 ''Where people often get lost is on this very point,'' he said after a moment of thought. ''Real faith, you see, leads us to deeper reflection and not -- not ever -- to the thing we as humans so very much want.''
 And what is that? 
 ''Easy certainty.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 17 about the role of religious faith in George W. Bush's presidency omitted a source for a quotation from a speech by David Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle Group, an investment firm based in Washington, who placed Bush on the board of a company established by Carlyle investors in the late 1980's. It was from an article by Suzan Mazur in Progressive Review.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); ARMIES (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WRITERS (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Evangelical Movement; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOE BIDEN (79%) Ron Suskind; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



412 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Hears Supportive Voices in a Bush Bastion in Ohio

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: BUCHANAN, Ohio, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
On a day when he rallied thousands of supporters deep in Republican territory and bought a hunting license to show off his credentials as a sportsman, Senator John Kerry's search for the political center brought him on Saturday to a Roman Catholic church where a very supportive priest chided bishops who have assailed him over abortion rights.
 Celebrating a specially arranged Mass for Mr. Kerry in Chillicothe, Ohio, the Rev. Lawrence Hummer noted that the Catholic church was ''steadfast in proclaiming that all life is sacred,'' but said in his homily that ''too often the church's proclamation is in conflict with its practice.'' 
 The priest said the church ought to persuade those who support abortion rights and otherwise oppose its teachings ''by word and example,'' not ''ostracize them or treat them like lepers.''
 Mr. Kerry is the focus of a raging debate within the Catholic church in the United States, with some bishops refusing to grant Communion to Catholic politicians, like Mr. Kerry, who support abortion rights. Some are actively opposing his candidacy and promoting President Bush.
 As a supporter outside held a seldom-seen sign saying ''Christians for Kerry,'' the candidate thanked Father Hummer for the chance to ''stop the hurly burly, get away from the wildness, have this moment of tranquility and worship.'' He also spoke of the religious basis for working for the environment and against poverty, recalling President Kennedy's reminder that ''on Earth, God's work must truly be our own.''
 The visit to the church, St. Mary's, came late in a day-long bus tour through southern Ohio, where George W. Bush overwhelmingly defeated Al Gore four years ago. Democrats are hoping that Mr. Kerry's performance in the region on Nov. 2 will resemble that of Bill Clinton, who carried 19 of 21 counties in 1996, rather than that of Mr. Gore, who won just 4. 
 Kerry aides said that while some of those counties were bedrock Republican territory, others proved to be swing districts in the last election only for lack of trying: Mr. Gore never contested this part of the state, said Allison Dobson, a Kerry spokeswoman. 
 So on Saturday, Mr. Kerry set out from Dayton through the region's small towns and farmland, full of picturesque stops calibrated to touch emotional chords in this swath of middle America.
 At a farm stand in Jeffersonville, he hoisted a little girl in the air, picked out bags of gourds and Indian corn for his wife, and paid $10 each for two mammoth pumpkins. And at a grocery here in Buchanan, he paid $140 cash for a hunting license to shoot ducks and geese in the Mahoning Valley.
 Or, as his spokesman, Mike McCurry, joked, ''To go kill defenseless animals somewhere'': a reminder that, even while courting middle-of-the-road voters, the party's base is never entirely out of anyone's mind.
 Mr. Kerry will indeed be back to hunt very soon, aides said, underlining both how hard he is fighting to carry Ohio and his approach to the gun issue: supporting a ban on assault weapons while showing off his skill as a marksman. 
 For all the day's demonstrations of godliness and manliness, Mr. Kerry was in full high dudgeon before some 2,500 people in a packed high school gym in Xenia, where Mr. Bush won in a 20-point landslide. 
 Mr. Kerry listened as Michael Adams told how he and his 138 coworkers at a factory had been given pink slips in September 2003, how he had no savings to draw on because he had been helping his cancer-stricken parents, and how he was still out of work and furious at President Bush.
 Then Mr. Kerry picked up an Ohio newspaper from Tuesday and read from its front page how Treasury Secretary John W. Snow had come to town and called reports about job losses under Mr. Bush nothing more than ''myths.''
 ''Is your job loss a myth, Mike?'' Mr. Kerry said, turning to Mr. Adams. ''Mr. President, the people who have lost jobs on your watch are not myths; they are our neighbors, they're middle class Americans, and they deserve better.''
 ''Tell us, John!'' someone yelled.
 Mr. Snow has said his remarks were taken out of context.
 Mr. Kerry had listeners springing from their seats every few moments as he went through his agenda: when he promised to end ''in a nanosecond'' what he called tax incentives for companies that move jobs overseas; when he vowed to put domestic security ahead of tax cuts for the wealthy; when he vowed to support alternative and renewable energy sources and stem-cell research.
 But this was an audience ripe for a negative message, and they roared more loudly when Mr. Kerry scoffed at Mr. Bush, saying ''This guy's never in doubt, but frequently in error.''
 Later, at church in Chillicothe, Father Hummer seemed ready to endorse Mr. Kerry in his homily, too. ''We have heard the clarion call,'' he said, echoing the Kerry-Edwards slogan, ''that hope is on the way.''
 The priest's sister, Anne Hummer, said Father Hummer had a few things in common with Mr. Kerry: both men opposed the first Gulf war, and after the priest was criticized for speaking against it from the pulpit, he entered the Navy as a chaplain and served two rotations. 
 After the service, Father Hummer urged Mr. Kerry on. ''God bless you,'' he said. ''And win, will you?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry bought a hunting license yesterday in Buchanan, Ohio, and was given a gun in nearby Wakefield. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Abortion; Environment; United States Economy; Labor; Presidential Election of 2004; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); AL GORE (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Lawrence (Rev) Hummer

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



413 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Is Spitzer Preparing Marsh, Act II?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LIKE the universe itself, corporate chicanery just seems to keep on expanding. Unlike earlier versions, however, the latest scandals tend to implicate not just individual companies but entire industries. 
 In last week's revelations, courtesy of a civil suit filed last week by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, the insurance industry got its turn. Stocks of major players in the industry have been hammered and investors are rightly wondering where the next bombshell might fall.
 Mr. Spitzer's suit, which detonated Thursday, was filed against Marsh Inc., whose parent, Marsh & McLennan, also owns Putnam Investments and Mercer Inc., the consulting unit. The suit was a shocker even to industry veterans because it disclosed Mr. Spitzer's findings of phony bids designed to direct business to certain insurers and to keep insurance rates high. The suit said A.I.G., Ace Ltd. and the Hartford, a unit of Hartford Financial Services, took part in the schemes with Marsh. 
 Shares in Marsh, the largest insurance broker in the world, have lost 37 percent of their value since Mr. Spitzer filed his suit, wiping out almost $9 billion in investor wealth. Interesting isn't it, how investors shrugged off Mr. Spitzer's investigation into improper insurance practices at Marsh and other companies when it came to light on April 23? Back then, Marsh's shares were at $45.01; they stood at $46.13 before the suit was filed last week. 
 Besides bid-rigging, Mr. Spitzer's suit detailed the kickbacks from insurers that brokers receive for sending them business as well as the hidden fees charged to the companies buying insurance. These arrangements, known as marketing service agreements or placement service agreements, were openly used by the industry. But Mr. Spitzer argued that because they were used to steer business, they represented a breach of duty to Marsh's customers. 
 Marsh generated $800 million in revenue from the service agreements in 2003, according to Mr. Spitzer's suit, and most if not all of that probably dropped down to the company's bottom line, industry experts said. If that is so, the fees accounted for more than half of Marsh's net income of $1.5 billion last year. 
 On Friday, Marsh said it would no longer seek these fees. ''We are greatly disturbed by the allegations of wrongdoing,'' said Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chief executive of Marsh, in a statement. ''We take them very seriously, and we are conducting a thorough investigation of these allegations. As the facts are being reviewed, we believe it is in the best interest of our clients to suspend M.S.A.'s immediately,'' he added, referring to the market service agreements.
 A.I.G. also said it would no longer pay service agreement fees. It said that the company's senior managers were not aware of the bid-rigging detailed in Mr. Spitzer's suit.
 BUT even as Marsh and A.I.G. responded to the suit by changing their practices, industry participants and analysts said that Mr. Spitzer's accusations and his continuing investigation would have many other repercussions for the business. In other words, the trouble for investors in insurance stocks has only just begun. Other companies will soon come under the microscope.
 Marsh dominates the global insurance brokerage market, with a 40 percent share. Almost $7 billion, or roughly 60 percent of the company's $11.5 billion in revenues last year, was generated by brokering insurance to corporate clients. Any significant change to the way the business is done will have a big impact on Marsh. That is why Mr. Market has punished its stock the most.
 ''The upshot of the news and the investigation is that there will be a fundamental change to the economics of the insurance brokerage business,'' said Adam Klauber, director of research at Cochran, Caronia Securities L.L.C., a research firm in Chicago specializing in insurance. ''You're talking about a pretty significant potential economic hit to Marsh. Its earnings will be impacted and its growth going forward will be impacted.''
 Ace Ltd., one of the companies identified as participating in phony bidding, said it was cooperating fully with Mr. Spitzer. The Hartford, the other company named, said its corporate policy does not condone bid-rigging or any other illegal activity.
 Marsh will almost certainly lose customers as a result of the lawsuit, analysts said, as its sister company, Putnam Investments, did when the scandal involving its executives made news in 2003. (Investors have withdrawn $32.5 billion from Putnam stock funds since September 2003, according to AMG Data Services.)
 But industry experts said that officials who buy insurance -- known as risk managers -- may be much quicker to abandon Marsh than were Putnam investors, many of whom were trapped in 401(k) plans offering few alternatives. Risk managers, after all, must justify their choices to superiors or their company's board; neither group is usually interested in doing business with a company mired in controversy. 
 Another potentially big problem for the industry as a result of the suit may be future legal actions by customers. Insurance brokers act as negotiators when companies file claims. So, as one analyst explained, some insurance customers who have settled claims in recent years may wonder if these settlements were fair or if the brokers in charge of negotiating them were acting in their own interests. 
 Many insurance claims are settled on the courthouse steps. For example, the majority of liability claims against corporate directors and officers never make it to court. ''Now it makes economic sense for companies to go back and see if they've left money on the table in these settlements,'' the analyst said. As a result, lawsuits questioning the fairness of these settlements could mount. 
 Marsh could also be hurt by defections from an unhappy staff. Until the company's internal investigation is concluded, its brokers will be operating under a cloud. The stock's recent plunge means that almost half of the stock options that had been awarded to Marsh employees as of the end of last year are now under water. 
 Mr. Spitzer said the practices outlined in his lawsuit have resulted in higher costs for consumers of all kinds of insurance. ''There are several billion dollars in P.S.A.'s every year; those theoretically should go back to the consumer,'' he said. ''But much more important, when you corrupt the marketplace and eliminate competitive bidding, that is massive. It will take economists time to model this and figure it out, but the numbers are huge.'' 
 What's ahead for the investigation? Mr. Spitzer would not say. But an industry executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the next phase of the assault would probably involve another questionable insurance industry practice known as tying. That is when a broker threatens to stop sending primary insurance business to an insurer unless it agrees to let the broker provide all of that company's reinsurance needs in return.
 The executive said that Mr. Spitzer's office was receiving ''crates of evidence of tying'' as a result of subpoenas submitted recently. Profits on reinsurance, by the way, are far richer than those on primary insurance.
 Marsh did $775 million in reinsurance brokerage revenues last year, roughly 11 percent of total revenues generated in its insurance segment. If Marsh is found to have been tying through its reinsurance subsidiary, Guy Carpenter, some or all of these revenues may be vulnerable. 
 ''This is the industry that for years has been blaming everyone else for premium increases,'' Mr. Spitzer said. Greedy trial lawyers were the usual excuse for premium increases. Now we know that greedy corporations also have a starring role.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer contends that some insurers participated in bid-rigging. (Photo by Stephen Chernin/Getty Images)(pg. 6)Chart: ''Value Dive''Graph tracks the daily closing price of Marsh & McLennan shares since October 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%) Insurance; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: MARSH SA (92%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (90%); ACE LTD (84%); MARSH INC (84%); MERCER INC (71%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Marsh Inc; Marsh & Mclennan Cos

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (90%); MHM (LSE) (90%); AEX (FRA) (84%); ACE (NYSE) (84%); HIG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Eliot L (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



414 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Internet advertisers face a new enemy: people who click on ads with no intention of buying.

BYLINE: By Tom Zeller Jr.

 BODY:
IF there is any single axiom of the digital age, it must be this: for every advance, there is a scourge. 
 E-mail has spam. The Web has pop-up windows and spyware. Even the market infant, Internet telephony, has analysts bracing for an onslaught of what is been called ''Spam Over Internet Telephony,'' (or ''spit,'' of course). 
 It should come as no surprise, then -- and some might say it is a bit of poetic justice -- that online advertisers are becoming acquainted with their own special plague: click fraud. 
 The variations are many, but it essentially works like this: merchants typically pay a fee to the sites that play host to their ads whenever those ads are clicked by a visitor. 
 In an ideal world, the visitor, now transported to the advertiser's Web site, hangs out for a spell, examines the wares and eventually makes a purchase. In click fraud, those clicks that the advertiser is paying for are not coming from potential customers, but from scam artists, automated scripts, and even underhanded competitors. 
 ''It's really any click initiated on a cost-per-click ad that is made without there being a possibility of a legitimate site-visit or a transaction to occur,'' said Jessie C. Stricchiola, the president of Alchemist Media, a California company that helps advertisers recoup cash lost to the practice. ''It's a really serious problem for the advertisers it affects.'' 
 It is nearly impossible to pin down precisely how widespread click fraud has become. John Squire, the vice president for product marketing for Coremetrics, which provides consulting and Web analysis for online merchants like Eddie Bauer, OfficeMax and CompUSA, estimated that his company's clients are spending approximately $10 million a year on fraudulent clicks. That is, they are spending about $10 million on consumers that don't exist. 
 Other companies -- usually ones that are feverishly peddling their own solutions to the problem -- say that as much as 50 percent of cost-per-click advertising dollars are spent on fraudulent clicks. 
 The practice has been around for years, but it is gaining wider attention as the online advertising market continues to grow rapidly. According to a survey released last month by the Internet Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers, online advertising revenues in the United States have been growing steadily over the last two years, and now stand at $2.4 billion. 
 And given the advent of affiliate programs from companies like Google and Yahoo, with its Overture Services, the opportunities to engage in click fraud have become even more widely dispersed. 
 Affiliate arrangements allow third-party Web sites to display context-sensitive advertisements pushed to them by the larger players. When visitors click those ads, the third-party site gets a share in the revenues. 
 It didn't take long, then, for shady affiliates to figure out that artificially driving up the click rate on those ads could enhance the commission checks that are doled out to them by their patron networks. 
 The Times of India reported last spring that a growing number of housewives, college students and other people in need of some extra cash were being hired in New Delhi to sit in front of a computer and click on advertisements.
 Other rings of phantom clickers have been reported in China, Nigeria and elsewhere. 
 Perhaps more often, sneaky affiliates will deploy scripts or software that will robotically click the ads, mimicking visitors and scooping up revenues. 
 One offshore Web site peddling false-click software reminds small Web publishers that the big companies command lots of advertising dollars because their sites have millions of visitors. 
 ''But what if your site doesn't have that traffic?'' the company asks. The solution: Use their program to ''simulate that traffic.'' The advertiser, the site's owners say, will think you're ''a hell of a Webmaster!'' 
 Most striking of all, perhaps, is the third variety of click fraud, in which overheated merchants click on a competitor's ads as a way of devaluing the competitor's campaign and depleting the rival's advertising accounts. 
 ''Sometimes it just makes people feel good to know they're costing their competitors money,'' Ms. Stricchiola said. 
 Each click, after all, has a price. 
 ''And therein lies a very large flaw'' in the cost-per-click model, Ms. Stricchiola said. ''It shouldn't happen and the fact that that it is happening is wrong,'' she said, adding that it is only a matter of time before the practice, which appears to occupy murky legal territory with little or no specific regulatory language addressing it, ends up in court. 
 The largest networks -- Yahoo's Overture, Google, FindWhat.com -- are understandably cautious not to overstate the extent of click fraud. But they all deploy fairly sophisticated tactics to combat the practice. Watchdog programs monitor the incoming clicks and sniff out unusual activity -- sudden spikes, for instance, or repeated clicks from the same location. And each has a staff dedicated solely to detecting and rooting out click fraud before it hollows out their business model. 
 ''Click fraud has been something that we have faced since the beginning,'' said Salar Kamangar, the director of product management at Google. ''It's an ongoing issue.''
 Indeed, Google thought the problem serious enough to mention in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission this year before the company's initial public offering.
 ''We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our ads,'' the document said. ''We have regularly paid refunds related to fraudulent clicks and expect to do so in the future. If we are unable to stop this fraudulent activity, these refunds may increase.'' 
 It is unlikely that the boom in online advertising could be stalled solely by click fraud, experts say, but the race between cheaters and the cheated in the pay-per-click universe is almost certain to continue.
 The histories of spam, spyware and, one presumes, spit, show that new mutations and workarounds tend to evolve quickly, requiring new monitoring techniques to catch them. 
 ''As with anything electronic, the perpetrators get a little more crafty as time moves along,'' said Karen Yagnesak, a spokeswoman for FindWhat.com. ''We try to stay a few steps ahead of them.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The New Economy column in Business Day yesterday, about online merchants who pay excessive cost-per-click fees to sites because of fraud artists, automated scripts or underhanded rivals, referred imprecisely to advertising revenues in a survey by the Internet Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCooper. The figure for the first six months of 2004 was $4.6 billion; the $2.4 billion figure was for the second quarter. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPYWARE (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EMAIL MARKETING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); WEB SITES (74%); SALES PROSPECTING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) Computers and the Internet; Frauds and Swindling; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); COMPUSA INC (53%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Tom Jr Zeller

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



415 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Reading Free Papers Win Readers and Imitators

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL; International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
On news racks in cities from Budapest to Barcelona to Boston, free copies of the distinctive jade green Metro newspaper are attracting the younger readers that have proved elusive to many established papers. But executives at the rapidly expanding Metro International do not expect plaudits or Pulitzer prizes from their peers. They are receiving a higher compliment -- imitation.
 Across Europe, newspapers including Le Figaro are battling back against Metro by introducing their own free tabloid editions. 
 ''Traditional newspapers look at us as thieves and criminals that are here to steal their readers,'' said Metro's chief executive, Pelle Tornberg, 48, a Swede who presides over the company's growing empire from an office in the elegant Mayfair district of London. ''They're right.''
 In an industry confronting circulation declines and sluggish advertising, Metro likes to think of itself as a maverick upstart whose main rivals are not traditional newspapers, but time and breakfast habits.
 Its papers are calculated to be savored as long as it takes for a cup of coffee to cool. A morning scan of its pages of local and international news and health briefs is expected to last 15 to 20 minutes(or 16.7 minutes by one company measure). A snapshot of Metro readers worldwide shows that more than two-thirds are under 45 and half are women, according to a TNS Gallup readership survey.
 It is also a newspaper chain that is willing to offer creative advertising to its clients from wavy car-shaped ads for Mitsubishi to fake newspaper front pages that come perilously close to the real thing.
 Nine years ago, the first Metro started circulating in a Stockholm subway. Since then, the idea has been grafted onto 38 editions, published in 15 languages in 16 countries including the United States. More than two-thirds of the 5.5 million total daily circulation is in Europe; this month, it started an edition in the Dutch port of Rotterdam, consolidating its position as the leading free newspaper publisher in the world. Last spring, a New York version, called Metro, began publication in competition with another free tabloid, amNew York. 
 Early scorn in Europe for the free sheets like Metro or its nearest rival, 20 Minutes, is evolving into grudging respect because of their appeal to readers under 45 who have tended to shun newspapers.
 Last month, Figaro, France's leading conservative daily, announced plans to introduce a free paper, and recently the French government issued a fresh report urging newspapers to prospect for young readers by offering limited free subscriptions.
 In Spain, a consortium of seven regional newspapers is preparing to create a free sheet, Pagina Cero, or Page Zero, with the aim of attracting 800,000 readers. In Germany, the media group Holtzbrinck has struck a compromise, testing a tabloid aimed at young readers in the eastern part of the country that shares its name with its cut-rate price, 20 Cent. 
 ''First, they didn't pay attention to us,'' said Jose A. Martinez Soler, the publisher of 20 Minutos, the Metro rival's Spanish edition. ''Their second position was to try to buy us, and the third now is to imitate us.''
 Part of the not-so-secret Metro formula is to hold down costs. It does not own any printing presses, outsourcing the work, and its skeletal staff of writers is expected to do every task around the newsroom. 
 ''The Metro newsroom is based on versatile journalists who can do interviews, take pictures and lay out the pages and do the copy editing,'' said Didier Pourquery, editor in chief of Metro France, which publishes six editions, including ones in Paris and Toulouse. ''That's why we have productivity among the highest in the French press, with only 33 people in all Metro France.''
 As a result of that approach, Metro expects its individual newspapers to make a profit within three years. Although none are big moneymakers so far, the most profitable operation is the original Swedish edition, which last year posted $11.4 million in earnings, followed by the Spanish edition. Its expanding French papers, which started two years ago and now have more than 555,000 in circulation, are still unprofitable, but last year they cut losses to $8.9 million. 
 Yet the enormous start-up costs in the newspaper industry take a toll, and the stock market has not been enthusiastic. In Stockholm on Friday, Metro International was down to 11.70 kronor ($1.60) from 81 kronor at its introduction in 2000. 
 The company has retreated for various reasons, pulling out from cities like Newcastle, England, and Zurich because it could not make a profit quickly enough and in Buenos Aires when the Argentine economy collapsed. Last year, the chain lost $6.9 million on sales of $203.5 million, but started turning a modest profit this year.
 Even so, Jim Chisholm, a strategy adviser for the World Association of Newspapers in Paris, said he expected to see an explosion in this type of free-newspaper business model, sustained solely by advertising.
 ''I've been in this business for 30 years, '' he said, ''and for the first time we're really seeing lots of exciting things happen. Metro is not only a low-cost way of reaching people, but because of the distribution model it can select the types of people that the newspaper is reaching.''
 The company is distributing copies in inventive ways. In Italy, for example, newspapers are distributed in 800 cafes. Copies are delivered to 19 university campuses in Paris and served along with the fast food at McDonald's outlets.
 Some of this creativity was born of necessity. When Metro France started two years ago, Parisian distributors refused to carry it in the kiosks, Valerie Decamp, Metro France's chief executive, recalled. Union members from the printing trades confronted some of the people distributing copies by hand and tossed thousands of papers onto the sidewalks, complaining that Metro was using foreign and nonunion printers.
 Since then, the disputes have cooled and management is meeting regularly with the printing unions, Ms. Decamp added. 
 Metro is making progress in other ways in its bid for acceptance. For two years, its editor in chief in France sought to persuade some of the nation's most prominent politicians to grant interviews. A few French mayors remain reluctant. But this month, the courting process finally paid off with an interview with Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Copies of Metro being handed out at a Paris rail station. Other distribution points are university campuses and McDonald's outlets. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The International Herald Tribune)
 Pelle Tornberg, Metro International's chief executive, in his office in London. Most of his papers' 5.5 million readers are in Europe. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The International Herald Tribune) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (57%) Newspapers

COMPANY: INVESTMENT AB KINNEVIK (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Metro International

TICKER: KINV.B (STO) (58%); KINV.A (STO) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Doreen Carvajal

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (88%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



416 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Take Up Cause Of Higher Pay At Some Stores

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Rev. Bryan Hooper likes to tell how his Greenwich Village church, Washington Square United Methodist, helped workers in some epic struggles, most notably the Uprising of the 20,000, a three-month walkout by garment workers in 1909 that was the first mass strike by women in American history.
 The Village has changed a great deal since, but Mr. Hooper wants his congregation to uphold its tradition of helping workers, so it has joined an unusual campaign, called It Takes the Village, which seeks to improve the lives of workers, especially retail workers, in the neighborhood.
 Scores of Village residents are threatening boycotts, writing letters to store owners and inviting workers to speak to congregations and coffeehouses. 
 ''The Village is not a bohemian neighborhood anymore; it's now an extremely affluent neighborhood,'' Mr. Hooper said. ''The standard of living in the Village is very high, and we want to make sure that the people who are working here, that the people who serve us, also have a good quality of life.''
 The campaign, which counts 12 houses of worship in the neighborhood as well as several community groups and labor unions, is urging Greenwich Village retailers to raise their wages, provide better health plans and make it easier for workers to unionize. The campaign is unusual because efforts to improve wages and benefits typically take place not at the neighborhood level but at the federal or state level -- to raise the minimum wage, for example -- or within individual businesses, through unionization.
 Community groups in New York are pioneering such neighborhood-based efforts to improve the lot of workers. In Park Slope, Brooklyn, the Fifth Avenue Committee is preparing its ''One Dollar More'' campaign,'' which will urge an increase of at least $1 in the hourly wage for workers at stores that pay the federal and state minimum wage, $5.15 an hour. In Bushwick, Brooklyn, Make the Road by Walking, an advocacy group for low-income New Yorkers, says it has collected nearly 3,000 signatures of residents who have pledged to boycott neighborhood retailers that do not pay overtime or provide paid vacation time. 
 ''The money that some of these stores are making must be fantastic, and we're just saying, 'You got to spread this money out more to your workers,''' said the Rev. John Powis of St. Barbara's Roman Catholic Church in Bushwick. ''It's a good idea to start doing some of these things at a neighborhood level, because knowing the situation up in Albany and in Washington, we all may be dead and buried by the time these people ever get to some of these things.''
 Not everyone likes the neighborhood campaigns. Morris Cohen, owner of Minimax, a department store in Bushwick, said the pressure tactics annoyed loyal customers and hurt businesses that communities rely on.
 ''These efforts are not good for the stores,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''If they make stores in our neighborhood pay $6 an hour, when stores in other neighborhoods are paying $5.15 an hour, that will hurt us by making our costs higher.''
 After Make the Road by Walking organized a six-month boycott of Minimax, Mr. Cohen agreed to pay $65,000 to eight workers who said that they had not been paid time and a half for overtime even though they often worked 60 hours a week.
 These campaigns aim in part to fill a vacuum caused by the declining power and presence of labor unions, which are largely absent in many neighborhoods, except in some supermarkets.
 ''We're trying to use our collective buying power to pressure neighborhood employers to improve their treatment of workers,'' said Andrew Friedman, a co-director of Make the Road by Walking.
 His group is threatening boycotts against Bushwick stores unless they agree to several demands, among them providing workers three days of vacation a year, three paid sick days a year and some unpaid days off after a death in the family.
 In Park Slope, the Fifth Avenue Committee is researching which groceries, coffee shops and bookstores provide satisfactory wages, in its opinion, and which do not. The committee's organizing director, Artemio Guerra, said his group hoped to improve wages and working conditions throughout Park Slope because his group was growing frustrated with fighting wage violations at one store after another.
 ''Our goal is to build an economic justice zone,'' Mr. Guerra said, adding that his group would focus first on Park Slope's main shopping strip, Seventh Avenue. ''We'll start by fighting for one dollar more, and then we'll build on that. For a lot of us, one dollar is nothing, but for low-wage workers, one dollar more will mean a lot.'' 
 In Greenwich Village, Jobs With Justice, an advocacy group financed by foundations and unions, has teamed with Washington Square United Methodist and other congregations to urge residents to patronize Gristedes, D'Agostino and other stores that provide wages and benefits they view as good. Jobs With Justice plans to provide residents with discount cards to steer business to those stores. The group is also doing research to develop a list of stores and restaurants for shoppers to avoid.
 Lauren Thomas, a fourth-year rabbinical student at Jewish Theological Seminary, has been spreading Jobs With Justice's message in sermons at several houses of worship. She told the congregation at Washington Square United Methodist that several workers at Jefferson Market, a high-end grocery on Sixth Avenue and 11th Street, had told her their dream was to have enough money to pay for food for their children and to have affordable health care.
 In her sermon, she said, ''Solving these problems for the world is too much, solving these issues for the nation might even be too great of a task, but locally I know we can make a difference.'' 
 Jose Luis Morillo, a former cook at Jefferson Market, said that when he was laid off last spring, after 14 years there, he was earning $380 a week, but had to pay $90 a week for health coverage. 
 Ms. Thomas's sermon persuaded several congregants to write to Jefferson Market, urging management to provide less expensive health coverage. One customer, Rachel Galper, sent the store a letter saying: ''I would like to know that just as my money helps you live well, that you show your heart and give your employees a chance to support their loved ones and stay healthy also. I believe that what you give will come back to you tenfold. I would regret having to take my business elsewhere.''
 Jefferson Market's owner, Louis Montuori, questioned why community groups were pressuring him. ''I don't understand why they're getting involved,'' he said. ''A lot of these same organizations ask us for donations every year, which we gladly give them.
 ''Jefferson Market has been a fixture in this neighborhood since 1929, and we've done many things for the community itself. I don't feel it's being appreciated right now.''
 He said his store paid its workers $12 an hour on average, provided a 401(k) plan and had recently lowered weekly health care premiums to $63 from $90. 
 Robin Small-McCarthy, an English professor and a congregant at Washington Square United Methodist, said Ms. Thomas's sermon persuaded her to participate in the campaign.
 ''You go to a store, you go to a restaurant, and how many of us stop to think how all these services are getting to us and how these people are being exploited for our benefit?'' she said. ''All I know is, if enough people do one small part to try to change things, a lot would change.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Luis Morillo, right, helping to hand out leaflets outside Jefferson Market, a Greenwich Village grocery where he was laid off last spring after 14 years. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); OVERTIME (78%); RELIGION (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); BOYCOTTS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); HISTORY (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Organized Labor; Fringe Benefits ; Boycotts; Retail Stores and Trade

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Greenwich Village (NYC); Bushwick (NYC); Park Slope (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



417 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Study Says White Families' Wealth Advantage Has Grown

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
The enormous wealth gap between white families and black and Hispanic families grew larger after the most recent recession, a private analysis of government data has found. 
 White households had a median net worth of greater than $88,000 in 2002, 11 times that of Hispanic households and more than 14 times that of black households, the Pew Hispanic Center said in the study, being released Monday.
 Blacks were slowest to emerge from the economic downturn that started in 2000 and ended early in 2001, the report found. 
 Net worth accounts for the value of items like a home and a car, checking and savings accounts, and stocks, minus debts like mortgage, car loans and credit card bills.
 Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, said the accumulation of wealth allows low-income families to rise into the middle class and ''have some kind of assets beyond next week's paychecks.''
 ''Having more assets enabled whites to ride out the jobless recovery better,'' Mr. Suro said.
 According to the group's analysis of Census Bureau data, nearly one-third of black families and 26 percent of Hispanic families were in debt or had no net assets, compared with 11 percent of white families.
 ''Wealth is a measure of cumulative advantage or disadvantage,'' said Roderick Harrison, a researcher at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington research organization that focuses on black issues. ''The fact that black and Hispanic wealth is a fraction of white wealth also reflects a history of discrimination.''
 After accounting for inflation, net worth increased 17 percent for white households from 1996 to 2002 and 14 percent for Hispanic homes, to about $7,900. It fell for black households by 16 percent, to roughly $6,000.
 The median net worth for all American households, representing all races and ethnicities, was $59,700 in 2002, a 12 percent gain from 1996.
 Only white homes recouped all their losses from 2001 to 2002. Both Hispanics and blacks lost nearly 27 percent of net worth from 1999 to 2001; the next year Hispanics gained it almost all back (26 percent), while blacks were up only about 5 percent.
 Mr. Harrison said Hispanics were more insulated from the downturn than blacks, so they suffered less. For example, Hispanics made employment gains in lower-paid, lower-skilled areas like service and construction.
 Blacks were hit hard by job losses in the manufacturing industry and in professional fields, where they were victims of ''last hired, first fired'' policies, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); FAMILY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (75%); CENSUS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%) United States Economy; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Income; Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (54%) Pew Hispanic Center

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



418 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Investor Suit at Disney Puts Exits in a Spotlight

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Just when it appeared that Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, could begin enjoying the company's turnaround and his final years in charge, a shareholder lawsuit threatens to dredge up some of the most embarrassing details of his two-decade reign and complicate his planned exit.
 On Wednesday, the Court of Chancery in Delaware will begin hearing a lawsuit filed by Disney shareholders contending that the board breached its fiduciary responsibility when Mr. Eisner hired his friend, Michael S. Ovitz, as president in 1995 and then signed off on Mr. Ovitz's $140 million severance package 14 months later. 
 Beyond the unflattering publicity sure to come as more depositions and documents of the seven-year-old case become public -- along the lines of Mr. Ovitz's almost $2 million office renovation and $6,100 home X-ray machine -- there are more substantial issues at stake. Disney's directors may find they were personally responsible for not carefully considering Mr. Ovitz's fitness for the job, and an insurance company may have to pay out the more than $200 million the plaintiffs are seeking. 
 And Mr. Eisner, who plans to retire when his contract expires at the end of September 2006, could find himself having to fend off whipped-up demands for him to leave when a successor is named by the middle of next year, according to some industry executives, analysts and corporate governance experts. 
 ''This makes Eisner look like he had a personal kingdom,'' said Samuel L. Hayes, a finance professor emeritus at the Harvard Business School.
 The trial will include a parade of more than 30 witnesses -- among them Mr. Ovitz and Mr. Eisner as well as the actor and director Sidney Poitier. More than 35 lawyers and witnesses are expected to show up in the small courtroom in Georgetown, Del., each day. 
 There will be no opening statements or jury in the trial, which is expected to last for four weeks. Mr. Ovitz will be one of the first witnesses. ''It will be good to get that over with before it gets too routine,'' said Steven G. Schulman, a lawyer who is representing shareholders. ''It will be an interesting, grueling experience, but we are ready.'' Mr. Schulman said he and his team hoped to establish that Mr. Ovitz wasted corporate assets and that the board should have fired him because he failed to do his job.
 ''In effect, he was living off the company, which would have provided grounds for cause,'' Mr. Schulman said.
 According to an internal review sought by Disney in 1997, Mr. Ovitz spent $76,413 of the company's money for limousines and rental cars, $48,305 for a home screening room and $6,500 for Christmas tips. He also charged the company as much as $125 a person for food served at executive meetings at his house, an amount later reduced to $15 as he neared the end of his tenure. The bill for flowers for these breakfasts and dinners for the 14 months tallied $9,535. The company also paid for Mr. Ovitz's subscription to Playboy magazine.
 Directors, according to several trial lawyers, are expected to show that the decision to both hire and fire Mr. Ovitz was a carefully considered plan, and that they were not influenced by Mr. Eisner to hire a close friend. 
 Mr. Eisner and his lawyer declined to speak publicly for this article. But two people who talked to Mr. Eisner said it was likely that his legal team would assert that he was not only lauded in the press for hiring a big personality like Mr. Ovitz in 1995, but received hundreds of e-mail messages and letters from supporters commending him.
 And lawyers for Mr. Ovitz, who, as a director at the time in question is also a defendant, will try to show that there is no evidence that should deprive Mr. Ovitz of his severance package.
 According to James Ellis, Mr. Ovitz's in-house counsel, ''Michael Ovitz just wanted the opportunity to do his job.''
 Once the testimony is complete, each side will then file a brief in support of the case, said the lawyers involved. Chancellor William B. Chandler III of Delaware Chancery Court will read both before writing a lengthy opinion. There will probably be an appeal no matter who wins, the lawyers said. 
 The suit threatens to detract from other developments at Disney. Its beleaguered ABC network finally has some nascent hits in ''Desperate Housewives'' and ''Lost.'' Mr. Eisner, who received a 45 percent no-confidence vote in the last board election, mollified critics, too, when he said last month that he would retire. Even the rebounding economy has been good news for Disney as visitors returned to its theme parks.
 But the company still faces some significant issues. Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the founders of Disney's Miramax division, are in testy negotiations with the company about their future together. But their contract, as currently configured, will not be extended past 2005, and there is a good chance one or both of the brothers could sever their relationship with Disney. 
 The trial's buzzsaw of bad publicity could also amplify the fallout from any downturn in the company's fortunes. Few industry analysts suggest that the information revealed in the trail will complicate Mr. Eisner's relationship with the directors. But it could reinforce the notion that Mr. Eisner should leave as soon as his successor is found, according to some analysts. The company has said the search process will be complete by next June.
 The coming courtroom antics are expected to evoke a different Hollywood. Mr. Eisner was hailed as a visionary 10 years ago, but has become a lightning rod for many of Disney's ills, forced to fend off calls for his ouster from disgruntled shareholders and former board members, including a nephew of the company's founder. And Mr. Ovitz, the former talent agent and founder of Creative Artists Agency who was once called the most powerful man in Hollywood, has been reduced to blaming what he called Hollywood's ''gay mafia'' for his downfall. 
 Both men's descents from their previous heights can be traced, to a large degree, to their ill-fated partnership.
 ''There were giant egos that drove a lot of this,'' John Coffee, director of the Center on Corporate Governance at Columbia University, said of the hiring of Mr. Ovitz. ''It was probably a crazy decision to think that someone who was an agent could be Disney president.'' 
 Mr. Eisner, Mr. Coffee said, was loath to admit in 1996 that he made a mistake in hiring Mr. Ovitz. In fact it was not until court documents were released that it became known that Mr. Eisner had reservations about Mr. Ovitz five weeks after he was hired. Several Disney executives at the time refused to work for Mr. Ovitz, according to court records.
 After Mr. Ovitz was hired, board members also questioned whether he had enough experience for the job. Chris Dixon, a managing director at Gabelli Capital Partners who was then an analyst, said he recalled talking to board members at the time who said they were worried Mr. Ovitz would use the job to learn about how a corporation worked but ''was not willing to get down in the trenches and get his hands dirty.'' 
 The hiring of an executive like Mr. Ovitz is less likely to occur these days, industry analysts and academics said. Instead of moguls managing companies like small fiefs, equally influential but less flamboyant corporate executives who grew up at public companies stung by the economic downturn in the late 1990's are more conscious about costs and returns on shareholder value. 
 ''Today there are a number of talented people who have grown up in their companies and have corporate experience,'' Mr. Dixon said. Among them, he said, are Jeff Bewkes, chairman of the Entertainment and Networks Group at Time Warner, and Peter Chernin, the president of the News Corporation.
 For many directors, the notion that they could be held responsible for hiring the wrong candidate or be sued for compensating them too highly is causing anxiety. Two executives of executive search firms who asked not be identified said board members they had talked to recently commented that they were more inclined to hire a search firm these days almost as an insurance policy against picking the wrong candidate or as a defense against critical shareholders.
 ''Boards have realized they are vulnerable,'' said Mr. Hayes of Harvard Business School. In Disney's case, he added, ''They are not only embarrassed, but perhaps liable.''
 ''Hollywood is run now by large corporations'' Mr. Hayes added, and their directors are beholden to newly active shareholders. ''If it requires this messy litigation to remind them, so be it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael D. Eisner, left, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, with Michael S. Ovitz in New York in 1996. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C6)Drawing (Illustration by James C. Best for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Expense Report''During Michael Ovitz's brief (14 months) tenure as president of Walt Disney, he billed the company for an array of expenses, which have come to light as part of a shareholder lawsuit filed against the company. Below, some of the expenses.Construction and other costs for office renovation: $1,768,308Furniture and fixtures: 183,8181995 BMW: 98,858Construction costs for home screening room: 48,305Flowers for breakfast and lunch meetings at home: 9,535Home X-ray machine: 6,100Subscription to Playboy: 70(Source by Court documents)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); DEPOSITIONS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (75%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CHRISTMAS (63%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%) Suits and Litigation; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%)

PERSON: Laura M Holson; Michael D Eisner; Michael S Ovitz

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



419 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: J.D. Power Considers Sale, Among Other Things

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 17 

 BODY:
J.D. Power & Associates, the company millions of people turn to for quality rankings on everything from cars to cameras, is exploring the possibility of putting itself up for sale.
 Thomas W. Shaver, J.D. Power's senior partner, said on Saturday that the company was considering a sale as one way to raise cash for an expansion.
 ''We're looking at options down the road; we're looking at a number of growth initiatives,'' Mr. Shaver said by telephone from J.D. Power's headquarters in Westlake Village, Calif. ''If we do, and execute those initiatives, funding is going to be required.'' 
 Mr. Shaver declined to discuss specific points about an expansion, which he said would take place over the next three to five years. He dismissed the notion that the company was having financial difficulty.
 ''We're in excellent shape right now,'' he said. The company, which is privately held, had revenue last year of $144.8 million, up 9.6 percent from a year earlier, according to Hoover's, the business information service. Power says on its Web site that it has had revenue growth of 25 percent annually since the early 1990's.
 Discussions about ways to raise capital for an expansion have been going on at J.D. Power for some time. Three months ago, the company hired the private equity firm Evercore Partners to help it explore its options.
 In addition to selling outright to another company, one option J.D. Power is considering is selling a portion of its shares to a minority investor, Mr. Shaver confirmed. He added that it was in only the exploratory stages, and could still choose not to go forward with any of Evercore's recommendations.
 ''As we explore all these options, we may elect not to accept any,'' he said.
 The company was founded in 1968 by J. David Power III as an independent surveyor of automobile quality. Its rankings and assessments -- which now include cars, boats, mortgage lenders, telecommunications companies and hospitals -- have become highly influential among many consumers. 
 J.D. Power's signature awards for car quality and safety are considered the industry's gold standard.
 ''They're sort of a benchmark for quality surveys of all kind,'' said Dave Healy, an auto industry analyst at Burnham Securities. ''They've become part of the background, part of the landscape. You get used to checking out their quality ratings.''
 Mr. Healy predicted that a sale would do little to affect J.D. Power's operations. ''My guess is that they would pretty much be business as usual, even if they were taken over by a large consulting company,'' he said.
 J.D. Power has 670 employees in 10 offices in the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia. Mr. Power still serves as chairman and is the majority shareholder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKETING SURVEYS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); WEB SITES (51%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (93%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Powers, J D, & Associates

TICKER: EVR (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Thomas W Shaver; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



420 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: With Questions Come Ratings

BYLINE: By MARK GLASSMAN

 BODY:
Could baseball be more popular than politics? Not this election year.
 More viewers watched the presidential debates this year than in any election year since 1992, according to Nielsen Media Research. 
More than 51 million people watched the debate on Wednesday night, 36 million more than watched either of baseball's league championship games the same night.
 When George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot met three times 12 years ago, nearly 70 million people tuned in for the second and third rounds. In 1992, Americans were concerned about the economy and there were unanswered questions about the Challenger shuttle disaster. This year, 62.5 million people watched the first debate, whereas the second and third debates were less popular, attracting 
 46.7 million and 51.2 million, respectively.
 ''There's some natural drop-off that you'd expect,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, the director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania. She said the overall trend of renewed interest in the debates suggests ''the issues facing the country are perceived as consequential.'' 
 As to whether baseball or politics is more patriotic, Ms. Jamieson called it a draw. ''Impossible,'' she said. ''They're both American.'' MARK GLASSMAN


CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A list of the poorest-performing stocks on Monday, with the Credit Suisse First Boston Technology Index in the ''Most Wanted'' chart in Business Day, misstated the closing share prices on Friday for two companies. Veritas Software closed at $19.60, not $11.38, and PeopleSoft closed at $20.85, not $23.52. 

The ''Drilling Down'' commentary in Business Day on Oct. 18, introducing the ''Most Wanted'' grouping of charts tracking the week's media industry statistics, referred incorrectly to television ratings for the presidential debates in 1992, the most recent previous year of strong viewership. The reference was a paraphrase from an interview with the political analyst Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who said Americans were concerned that year with unanswered questions about the challenger; the reference was to the character of Bill Clinton -- not to the Challenger shuttle disaster; that occurred in 1986. A reader's message reporting the error was initially misdirected at The Times, delaying this correction. 

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Presidential debates and the number of television viewers''Each bar represents one debate1988BUSH, DUKAKISVIEWERS -- in millions: 65VIEWERS -- in millions: 671992BUSH,CLINTON, PEROTVIEWERS -- in millions: 62VIEWERS -- in millions: 70*VIEWERS -- in millions: 671996CLINTON, DOLEVIEWERS -- in millions: 36VIEWERS -- in millions: 362000BUSH, GOREVIEWERS -- in millions: 47VIEWERS -- in millions: 38VIEWERS -- in millions: 382004BUSH, KERRYVIEWERS -- in millions: 62*VIEWERS -- in millions: 47VIEWERS -- in millions: 51*Viewership is at its highest since 1992(Source by Nielsen Media Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Ratings and Rating Systems; Debating; Television

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%) Nielsen Media Research

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%) Mark Glassman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



421 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning Furiously, With Social Security in Tow

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; David Stout contributed reporting from Daytona Beach for this article.

DATELINE: PEMBROKE PINES, Fla., Oct. 17 

 BODY:
Accusing President Bush of plotting a ''January surprise'' to cut Social Security benefits, Senator John Kerry told voters here and in Ohio on Sunday that Mr. Bush's plans for privatizing the entitlement program could cost them as much as 45 percent of their monthly checks.
 ''That's up to $500 a month less for food, for clothing, for the occasional gift for a grandchild,'' Mr. Kerry warned elderly and middle-aged worshipers at a black church in Columbus, Ohio, as he brought to the fore a major issue in the 2000 election that he had rarely touched on. 
 His comments on Social Security came as Mr. Kerry headed to Florida for a get-out-the-vote swing timed to Monday's start of early voting there. He and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, are crisscrossing the state, courting African-American and elderly voters in core Democratic areas like Broward and Palm Beach Counties, new voters on college campuses in Tallahassee and Gainesville, and swing voters in up-for-grabs places like Tampa, Orlando and even the heavily Republican Fort Myers.
 Kerry aides said that local Democratic elected officials would be busing their constituents to the polls beginning on Monday as if every day were Election Day. ''We've got 14 Election Days,'' said Tom Shea, the campaign's Florida director.
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards will return to the state next weekend, aides said, and at least one more visit to Florida is likely.
 Mr. Kerry will court the elderly in Tampa in a major speech on Monday about health care, in which aides said he would assail Mr. Bush for ignoring the looming shortage of flu vaccines until it was too late to avert.
 At a sunny afternoon rally here before thousands who chanted ''No more Bush,'' he touched that theme, noting that Mr. Bush had visited Florida on Saturday. ''He was talking to a bunch of seniors,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''and he was talking to them about prayer and flu shots. And that's appropriate, because you don't have a prayer of getting a flu shot.''
 Mr. Bush, who like Vice President Dick Cheney did not campaign Sunday, is to give a speech on terrorism on Monday. With that in mind, Mr. Kerry's advisers said he would mention the flu-shot crisis in his health care speech to try to undercut the president's security credentials.
 ''If you can't get flu shots sent out to the American people,'' Mr. Kerry said in the rally here, ''how are you going to protect them against bioterrorism?''
 In taking on Mr. Bush over Social Security, Mr. Kerry cited a report in Sunday's New York Times Magazine that quoted Mr. Bush, in a private meeting with top Republican donors last month, describing his second-term agenda.
 ''I'm going to come out strong after my swearing in,'' Mr. Bush told the so-called Regents, The Times Magazine reported, ''with fundamental tax reform, tort reform, privatizing of Social Security.'' Mr. Bush added that re-election would give him two years, until the next midterm elections, to act: ''We have to move quickly, because after that I'll be quacking like a duck.''
 In public, Mr. Bush frequently promotes a plan for letting younger workers invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in private retirement accounts. But those workers' taxes pay for today's retirees' benefits, and Mr. Bush has not said whether he would borrow or cut benefits to make up for the diversion.
 In a campaign commercial released Sunday, as well as speaking from the pulpit of Mount Olivet Baptist Church in Columbus, Mr. Kerry said the Bush plan for retirement accounts would cut benefits for Social Security recipients by 30 to 45 percent.
 ''The president's privatization plan for Social Security is another way of saying to our seniors that the promise of security is going to be broken,'' he said, calling it a ''disaster for America's middle class.''
 ''Even the president's own economic advisers say that this'll blow a $2 trillion hole in Social Security,'' he added. ''And guess who is going to pay for it: you will.''
 The commercial, meanwhile, announces ominously that ''the truth is coming out,'' and concludes: ''The real Bush agenda? Cutting Social Security.''
 In a conference call with reporters late on Sunday, Bob Shrum, a top Kerry consultant, noted sharply that when he raised the quotation with Ken Mehlman, the Bush campaign manager, on the NBC program ''Meet the Press'' in the morning, Mr. Mehlman did not dispute its accuracy.
 But at 12:40 p.m., a Bush spokesman, Steve Schmidt, denied in an e-mail message that the president ever used the word privatization; called the article's author, Ron Suskind, an ''avowed Bush antagonist''; and accused the Kerry campaign of using ''third-hand, made-up quotes'' to ''scare seniors.''
 ''John Kerry's misleading senior scare tactics are just another example of a candidate who will say anything to get elected, no matter how false his accusations,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 Neither in the new Kerry advertisement nor in Mr. Kerry's remarks in Ohio -- to an aging congregation -- did Mr. Kerry mention that the large-scale benefit cuts he cited, taken from a Congressional Budget Office analysis of the Bush plan, apply only to people born in the 1980's and later, not people already receiving Social Security benefits.
 But Kerry aides argued midday that the campaign was also trying to awaken younger people, who are often less concerned about their retirement income, to the dangers of Mr. Bush's Social Security proposal.
 And later, in his Florida speech, Mr. Kerry pointed to the Bush proposal as a peril ''for every one of you out there who depends on it, who's going to depend on it, or wants to.''
 In Daytona Beach, Mr. Edwards told predominantly black worshipers at a Baptist church that the next president would most likely be able to name several Supreme Court justices.
 Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards frequently cite the Supreme Court's ideological makeup in appealing for Democratic votes, particularly in Florida, the most bitterly contested state in the 2000 election, which fell into Mr. Bush's column by just 537 votes -- and, many Democrats maintain, by just one vote on the court.
 ''We're asking you to allow us to continue this march toward equality and justice,'' Mr. Edwards said at the church. ''We're going to make sure democracy works here in Florida this time, right?'' he added, to a rousing reception.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry yesterday at a rally in Pembroke Pines, Fla. His aides said he would return to the state before Election Day, Nov. 2. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 Senator John Edwards campaigning in Daytona Beach, Fla. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); INFLUENZA (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); DRUG SHORTAGES (63%); TERRORISM (60%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (60%); VACCINES (51%); ANTIVIRALS (50%) Social Security (US); Election Issues; Privatization; Presidential Election of 2004; Social Security (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; Ron Suskind

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (76%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Ohio; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



422 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ford Makes a Deal To Put Sirius in More Cars
Ford plans to announce today that it will offer Sirius Satellite Radio in more of its cars and trucks and that it will begin installing the systems at the factory. After more than two years of taking a backseat to XM, Sirius appears to be on the rise. Earlier this month, Howard Stern signed a deal to broadcast on Sirius.
 But XM maintains its status as the industry's lone giant with 2.5 million subscribers compared with 600,000 for Sirius. [C6.]

J.D. Power Considers a Sale
J.D. Power, the company millions of people turn to for quality rankings, is exploring the possibility of putting itself up for sale. [C2.]

At Apple, a Quiet Return for Jobs
Steven P. Jobs, founder of Apple Computer, usually announces new products in front of thousands of cheering Macintosh aficionados. Last week, however, he unveiled Apple's new line of miniretail stores with an understated flourish in front of a small gathering. In part, the more important unveiling was Mr. Jobs himself, who was making his first appearance since cancer surgery. [C10.]

A Hitch in Offering Online Prices
Travel search engines take aim at the most headache-inducing task for online shoppers -- scanning major e-travel agency sites to locate the cheapest prices. But not all travel agencies and suppliers want the search engines to scan their sites for their prices. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

Cooler Lights for a Hot Stage
Lamina Ceramics plans to introduce a light-emitting diode array with heat-reduction technology that allows it to be as bright as a theatrical light without a meltdown. [C4.]

Buy an Album, Win a Prize
Executives at Interscope Records, which distributes Eminem's albums, are creating a contest in which fans who buy the new album, ''Encore,'' can register to win a prize. [C10.]

With Each Advance, a Scourge
The Web has pop-up windows and spyware. Even the market infant, Internet telephony, has ''Spam over Internet Telephony.'' So it should come as no surprise that online advertisers are becoming acquainted with their plague: ''click fraud.'' New Economy. [C4.]

Inquiry Into Halliburton Pension
A representative from California has opened an inquiry into the Labor Department's lack of response, after two years, to former Halliburton employees who sought its help when the company reduced their pensions. [C2.]

Crucial Date Nears in Hollinger Case
The expiration date -- Oct. 31 -- of an order by a Delaware judge in June enjoining Conrad M. Black from selling his stake in Hollinger International is rapidly approaching. [C10.]

Newspaper Finds Imitators at Door
On news racks in cities from Budapest to Barcelona to Boston, free copies of Metro newspapers are attracting the younger readers that have proved elusive to many established papers. Now, larger, more established newspapers have begun to take notice and are starting to imitate the smaller Metro. [C10.]

A Price War in DVD Rental Fees
Blockbuster and Netflix have begin a pricing war in DVD rental fees. First, Netflix cut its monthly subscription for online rentals to $17.99. Then, Blockbuster said it would cut its price to $17.49 a month for customers who keep up to three DVD's out at a time. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 9,933.38 down 121.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,911.50 down 8.4710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06 down 0.07The euro -- 1.2480 up 0.0062The dollar -- 109.19 down 0.23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SATELLITE RADIO (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); SPYWARE (66%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (66%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (65%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (64%); RECORD RELEASES (63%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); APPLE INC (84%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (58%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%); HOWARD STERN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004



423 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Secret Papers About China Are Released By the C.I.A.

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency made public on Monday a rich trove of previously classified documents on China, including the supposedly authoritative National Intelligence Estimates issued over the 30-year period of Mao Zedong's rule.
 For scholars of what Mao called China's ''continuous revolution,'' of its tumultuous and intertwined relationships with the United States, the Soviet Union and Taiwan, and of the American intelligence efforts aimed at understanding the unfolding events, the documents disclose a mixed record of insights and miscues.
 A National Intelligence Estimate published in June 1954 said that ''no clearly established factions'' existed within the Chinese leadership. In fact, the first major party purge had taken place earlier that year, but did not become public for another year. 
 Yet in the confusion and chaos of the Cultural Revolution of the 1960's, when radicals published so many documented exposes and denunciations that the flow of data became a glut, a 1967 intelligence estimate correctly predicted the probability that cautious military and political leaders would find common cause eventually.
 ''As long as Mao is capable of political command, China's situation will probably be tense and inherently unstable,'' it said; a ''disorderly and contentious'' struggle would follow, and eventually a move away from ''discredited'' policies to ''secure modest economic growth.''
 In an introduction to the collection of 71 documents, which are on the agency's Web site at www.cia.gov and will be released by the Government Printing Office on compact disc, Robert L. Suettinger, a career intelligence analyst and China scholar, says that ''unfortunately, the collection provides only a few examples of this kind of cogent analysis on China's leadership situation.'' But Mr. Suettinger described the record as ''nonetheless an impressive one'' in which ''the fundamentals are consistently right.''
 Among the most important judgments, Mr. Suettinger wrote, was a consistently accurate assessment that the Communist Party in China was never challenged from 1948 on in its predominance of power on the Chinese mainland.
 Other assessments contained in the documents include one written in 1950, on the eve of China's entry into the Korean War. It correctly said that Chinese forces were capable of either halting the northward path of United Nations forces or of ''forcing U.N. withdrawal further south through a powerful assault.''
 A pair of Special National Intelligence Estimates on China's response and involvement in the Vietnam War made clear that China would not risk an open confrontation with the Untied States. One of the estimates, issued in 1966, said, ''At present levels of American action [in North Vietnam], we continue to believe that China will not commit its ground or air forces to sustained combat against the U.S.'' 
 The documents show that American intelligence agencies were slow to recognize the emergence of differences between the Soviet Union and China in what is known as the Sino-Soviet split. As late as 1966, three years before clashes along the border took the relationship to its lowest state, an estimate described an open break in relations between the Soviet Union and China as unlikely.
 A main shortcoming, Mr. Suettinger wrote in his assessment, was ''overestimating the importance of ideological solidarity and other centripetal forces within the Communist Bloc at least during the 1950's.''
 Documents on the emergence and status on China's strategic nuclear forces, the subject of 13 estimates between 1962 and 1974, were heavily censored, Mr. Suettinger writes, but if nothing else, they ''reveal that estimating a country's nuclear capabilities -- much less intentions -- on the basis of a few photographs and other scarce clues has been an imprecise science from the start.''
 It is a lesson that will not be lost on students of intelligence still looking at the agency's work on Iraq, Iran and North Korea.
 Robert L. Hutchings, the chairman of the National Intelligence Council, described the documents as presenting ''a unique historical record of a formative stage in China's development'' between 1948 and 1978, including ''the drama of the Chinese Civil War, the establishment and consolidation of Communist rule, and the Sino-Soviet split.''
 The collection of documents is the most extensive to be released by the C.I.A. on China. Since 1996, the C.I.A. has released a series of similar collections on the Soviet Union, but those documents were largely retrospectives on the cold war. By contrast, Mr. Suettinger noted that the China documents contained ''formative thinking on an existing state, an ongoing challenge to American interests and security.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); KOREAN WAR (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); AIR FORCES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%) National Intelligence Council; Central Intelligence Agency 

PERSON: Douglas Jehl; Mao Zedong (1893-1976)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (93%); VIET NAM (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) China; Russia; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



424 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Cotton Ruling Appealed

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
The United States on Monday filed an appeal of a World Trade Organization ruling that American cotton subsidies broke trading rules. 
 The trade organization's appellate body officially has up to three months to study Washington's objections to the verdict in a case brought by Brazil, although it often takes longer on such cases. 
 In a letter to the W.T.O.'s disputes settlement body, which had been due to approve a panel's ruling on the cotton policy on Monday, the United States took issue with all points raised in the decision. 
 Brazil argued the United States had exceeded subsidy limits agreed to for cotton, leading to oversupply, which helped depress world prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (88%); APPEALS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%) Cotton; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Crop Controls and Subsidies

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



425 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Private Investors Abroad Cut Their Investments in the U.S.

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The flow of foreign capital contracted in August as private investors lost some of their appetite for American stocks and bonds, underscoring the United States' increasing dependence on financing from central banks in Asia.
 The Treasury Department reported yesterday that net monthly capital flows from the rest of the world fell for the sixth time this year, declining to $59 billion from $63 billion in July.
 Private investment from abroad fell by nearly half -- to $37.4 billion in August from $72.9 billion the month before. Investors appear to be concerned over cooling growth and a rising American trade deficit. 
 The only reason that the contraction was not more pronounced was that official financing, mainly from Asian central banks, jumped to nearly $23 billion in August from just over $6 billion in July. 
 Washington has demanded that China end a policy of buying dollars to reduce the value of its currency, the yuan, and make its exports more competitive in American markets. But the new data accentuated how dependent the United States has become on purchases of dollar securities by the Chinese and other Asian governments with links to the dollar.
 ''Foreign central banks saved the dollar from disaster,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst of the MG Financial Group. ''The stability of the bond market is at the mercy of Asian purchases of U.S. Treasuries.''
 Net foreign purchases of United States Treasury bonds fell 35 percent, to roughly $14.5 billion, an 11-month low. Foreign governments left a particularly large footprint in this market, stepping up their net purchases to about $19 billion even as private investors sold about $4.5 billion worth. 
 Holdings of Treasury bonds by Japan, where the central bank has also been intervening to keep the value of its currency from rising, increased by $26 billion in August, to $722 billion. Chinese official holdings rose more than $5 billion, to $172 billion.
 The decline in foreign investment seems to have unsettled some investors in the bond and currency markets, who have been on tenterhooks as the American trade deficit has soared to nearly 6 percent of the nation's economic output, requiring foreign investment to finance it.
 Through the first quarter of the year, financial flows into the United States exceeded the trade deficit by well over 50 percent. Last month, they barely covered the $54.2 billion deficit.
 As private capital flows declined, the American financial balance has been poised precariously. As private financing dwindled, most of this coverage has been provided by foreign government finance.
 ''If all we have funding our current account imbalance is the good graces of foreign central banks, we are on increasingly thin ice,'' said Stephen S. Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley. Of Washington's call for China to stop interfering in currency markets, he cautioned, ''That could come back and bite us.''
 Not all economists are that worried about the growing shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure of trade, pointing out that it is sustainable as long as Asians continue on a path of export-led growth that requires cheap currencies against the dollar. 
 Many economists stress, however, that this symbiotic balance between Asian and American economies will eventually come to an end. 
 Jeffrey Frankel, an economics professor at Harvard University, said: ''The Asians are going to go on buying Treasury securities for a while, preventing the dollar from depreciating and helping keep U.S. interest rates low, which is a good thing. But not forever.'' 
 Morris Goldstein of the Institute for International Economics remarked, ''This can be a story for one year or two years, not for 10 years.''
 If the United States were to temper its appetite for foreign money, the Chinese and Japanese could curtail their purchases of American securities without causing financial havoc. The dollar could then drift lower against Asian currencies, benefiting American exporters and manufacturers that compete with Asian imports.
 But this would require Americans to increase their rate of savings. Household savings have plummeted to only 1.5 percent of personal income, from 11 percent 20 years ago. With the federal government running a budget deficit of 3.5 percent of the nation's output, the public sector hardly contributes to savings. 
 A disorderly situation would occur if foreign money dried up suddenly when the United States still needed it. Then, the adjustment in American savings might happen involuntarily. Interest rates would rise sharply, and the dollar could fall abruptly. This could induce a sharp economic contraction, even stagflation. 
 ''The longer we wait,'' Mr. Goldstein said, ''the more likely we'll have the adjustment anyway. But the adjustment will be more chaotic and sharper.''


GRAPHIC: Graph ''CURRENCIES'' tracks the euro to the dollar, since May 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%) United States Economy; Foreign Investments; Finances; Government Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MG FINANCIAL GROUP (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%) Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



426 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Merger of Prominent Law Firms Will Create a National Practice

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Piper Rudnick, a fast-growing corporate law firm with offices mainly in the mid-Atlantic and the Midwest, said yesterday that it would merge with Gray Cary, which has a large technology practice in California, to create one of the largest national law firms.
 The merger, which effectively combines the balance sheets and legal staffs of Piper and Gray, will result in a corporate firm with more than 1,300 lawyers and 20 offices stretching from Washington to Silicon Valley. 
 ''We needed to be there in a much more visible way and with a lot more firepower,'' said Frank B. Burch Jr., the co-chairman of Piper Rudnick, referring to Silicon Valley. Mr. Burch began negotiating the deal this summer after seeking a West Coast partner for several years. 
 The merger is the latest in a series of efforts over the last five years by Piper to expand from a regional into a national player. Mr. Burch said the deal paved the way for Piper to complete a merger next year with DLA, an international firm based in London, with 1,000 lawyers. 
 Gray Cary, meanwhile, could be better protected from the market pressures that bruised its bottom line a few years ago when the technology bubble burst. Though its profits have improved since 2002, the firm has reduced its size by 68 lawyers, or 15 percent, since 2001.
 ''Gray Cary has made no secret of its focus on finding an East Coast strategic partner,'' said J. Terence O'Malley, Gray's chairman and chief executive. Mr. O'Malley said that Piper's presence in major technology markets in Boston and New York along with the firm's expertise in government affairs made it a good strategic fit. 
 The new firm will be called Piper Rudnick Gray Cary L.L.P., and will combine Gray's staff of about 380 lawyers with Piper's existing roster of more than 1,000. It will be run by a four-member executive team, headed by Mr. Burch and Lee I. Miller, Piper's other co-chairman. Mr. O'Malley will serve as a United States managing partner. 
 The merged firm is expected to generate more than $800 million in 2004 revenues, making it the sixth-largest law firm in the United States based on revenue. 
 Nearly three-quarters of Gray's lawyers specialize in intellectual property and technology. In the San Francisco area alone, the addition of a Palo Alto office and about 140 Gray lawyers will more than triple Piper's existing staff.
 In Washington, Gray's existing staff of 18 lawyers will join a staff of 165 at Piper, led by rainmakers like former lawmakers. ''They have a unique group of high-level partners savvy in the ways of Capitol Hill and the formulation of government policy,'' Mr. O'Malley said. 
 The merger comes as law firms in general are undergoing shakeouts, but legal analysts say that West Coast firms have felt the pinch the most. Ward Bower, a principal at Altman Weil, a legal management consulting firm in suburban Philadelphia, estimates that nearly a dozen California law firms have recently sought out national partnerships to stabilize their income and attract new business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); MERGERS (91%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW FIRM BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DIVESTITURES (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Legal Profession; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Corporations; Names, Organizational; Legal Profession

COMPANY: DLA PIPER LLP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Piper Rudnick; Gray Cary (Law Firm); Piper Rudnick Gray Cary LLP

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: Eric Dash; Frank B Jr Burch; Lee I Miller; J Terence O'Malley

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Middle Atlantic States (US); Midwestern States (US); California

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



427 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Radar Magazine Lines Up Financing

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the owner of The Daily News, and Jeffrey Epstein, a Wall Street financier, yesterday agreed to finance Radar, a celebrity and pop culture magazine that published two test issues last year. 
 Two executives involved in the negotiations said the backers, who were part of an unsuccessful bid for New York magazine last year, are committed to spending up to $25 million to back Radar and Maer Roshan, its editor in chief and founder. 
 Radar's cheeky, sometimes snarky approach to celebrity and culture attracted news media attention when the magazine was first published, but attempts to line up financing fizzled. ''It will be fun to get back to assigning stories,'' Mr. Roshan said. 
 The first issue under new ownership will appear next April, with issues to follow every other month for the rest of the year before the magazine moves to a monthly schedule in 2006. But Mr. Roshan and the new owners of Radar face a magazine industry that has only slowly recovered from recession and has proved inhospitable to both general-interest publications and magazines not part of large media companies. 
 The three men say they believe that a magazine that captures the interest of young, single people who live in urban areas and are tastemakers in their own right will find not just a readership, but also a group of reliable advertisers.
 ''In this business, to say that it is not a sure thing does not even begin to capture what a crapshoot starting a magazine can be, but I've had some success,'' Mr. Zuckerman said. ''Still, we think that there is real interest in reaching these kind of consumers, and Maer is better suited to doing that than almost anyone I can think of.''
 Radar's seemingly endless search for financing became something of a running joke in New York publishing. The staff held a celebration with one owner, an investor from Morocco, at Mr. Roshan's home, only to find out that the money that was always about to be wired was not forthcoming. Even yesterday, when Mr. Roshan sat with a reporter and some of his staff at the Coffee Shop in Union Square, giving an interview about finally obtaining financing, a last-minute glitch developed, a legal issue involving the magazine's name, that briefly put the press offensive on hold.
 Mr. Epstein and Mr. Zuckerman will be equal partners in the new venture, and Mr. Roshan will retain a small ownership stake. The magazine will use some of the publishing resources of Mr. Zuckerman's company, which also publishes U.S. News and World Report. 
 Mr. Zuckerman's track record with media investments is mixed. The Atlantic Monthly made little if any money during the years he owned it, and U.S. News is a distant third to Time and Newsweek. But he did very well by investing $20 million in Fast Company, a magazine that he sold four years ago to Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing for $360 million. He also invested in a magazine called Family Fun and sold it for a profit to the Walt Disney Company.
 ''No one I know has a better track record of buying properties cheap and then selling them for a big profit,'' said Mark Edmiston, managing director of AdMedia Partners, a media investment bank.
 Still, Mr. Edmiston said: ''The world has not been kind to general-interest magazines. Increasingly, it is the narrowly focused magazines which are doing very well.''
 An argument has been made that at a time of hundreds of cable channels, many of them catering to niches, there is little room for a general-interest magazine. Talk magazine, where Mr. Roshan was editorial director under Tina Brown, spent more than $50 million and struggled mightily before closing in 2002. 
 But Mr. Roshan said he believed that Radar's focus on young, urban readers and relatively small circulation -- executives expect to sell 125,000 copies per issue next year, with that growing to 175,000 in 2006 -- would allow it to beat punishing odds. Radar executives said that given the growing popularity of Jon Stewart's ''Daily Show'' and The Onion, a satire of a newspaper, they believed there was a market for a magazine that takes on serious matters in unserious ways. To help Radar forge an identity, Mr. Roshan said, its Web site (www.radarmagazine.com) will incorporate some of the voice and style that has developed in blogs. 
 ''In some ways, this is going to be a new magazine,'' Mr. Roshan said. ''Some significant time has lapsed since, and we need to update what we are trying to do. This is a magazine that is trying to be irreverent, provocative and literate. We think there's room, especially for a magazine that is not trying to get to one million circulation, for something that doesn't talk down to its readers. And we want it to be very commercial.''
 Mr. Epstein, a money manager, said his investment was meant to finance a business, not a hobby.
 ''I think that Maer did a great job with practically no funds,'' he said. ''When I invest in companies, I invest in the people, and I don't think that anybody has the track record with start-ups that Mort does.''
 ''I always focus on the potential downside of an investment,'' he added, ''and I don't think this is something that is going to lose money.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Magazines

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (80%)

ORGANIZATION: Radar (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%)

PERSON: David Carr; Mortimer Zuckerman; Jeffrey Epstein; Maer Roshan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MOROCCO (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



428 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Man Accused Of Terrorizing Bar Patrons Goes on Trial

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
A Brooklyn man accused of shooting three people and terrorizing patrons with kerosene and a lighter in an East Village wine bar in 2002 was on a mission to kill white people, a Manhattan prosecutor said as the man's trial began yesterday.
 The man, Steven Johnson, 37, who is black, has been charged with attempted murder and assault as a hate crime, among other offenses, in connection with a rampage on June 16, 2002. It began on 11th Street and ended in Bar Veloce, a narrow wine bar on Second Avenue, where the police said he held about 15 people hostage before he was subdued. One of the three people shot suffered serious injuries. 
 ''This is a case about hate and anger,'' said the prosecutor, Peter Hinckley, an assistant Manhattan district attorney.
 Mr. Johnson ''wanted to make a statement,'' Mr. Hinckley continued. ''He wanted his own life to end and wanted to kill white people in the process. It was a mission of hate for which he prepared diligently.''
 A lawyer for Mr. Johnson, Thomas Klein, said his client was not guilty by reason of mental disease or defect. Mr. Johnson, who the police said was ill with AIDS at the time of his arrest, is sick with ''churning paranoid delusions that gradually come to cloud his mind,'' Mr. Klein said, and ''is not guilty because he's not criminally responsible.'' 
 In his opening statement, Mr. Klein told the jury, ''Beyond the reality of a wine bar hostage situation, you will also see the reality of a very ill man's mind.'' 
 In the trial, which began yesterday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, prosecutors played audiotapes recovered from Mr. Johnson's apartment on Humboldt Street in East Williamsburg. The tapes featured rap music interspersed with what Mr. Hinckley said were recordings of Mr. Johnson's own antiwhite invective; the tapes support the charge that he was plotting a hate crime, Mr. Hinckley said.
 On one tape, a low male voice spoke languidly of killing. The voice addressed someone as ''son,'' and railed against economic inequalities between whites and blacks.
 ''Get ready to pull your guns out on these crackers, son,'' the voice stated, according to a transcript provided by the prosecution. ''All they do is party and have a good time off of our expense, son.''
 ''Blast the first couple you see having a good time,'' the voice said. ''Let them visit your side of the tracks.''
 Mr. Klein indicated that Mr. Johnson had had a troubled life, which he tried to turn around. He worked as a barber in Brooklyn and had a hair-cutting room in his East Williamsburg apartment. He may have been abused as a child, Mr. Klein indicated. He used drugs and had a criminal record.The terror of the June night was relived on the witness stand by three people who said they had been among Mr. Johnson's victims. One, Jonah Brander of Fort Lee, N.J., said he had been on his way to Bar Veloce when Mr. Johnson approached him with a gun and shot him in the stomach without any provocation.
 ''He said something to the effect of, 'I have a problem with you,' and then he shot me,'' Mr. Brander said.
 The gunman followed Mr. Brander into Bar Veloce, where he shot him again, said Mr. Brander, whose wounds -- a pierced colon and lung -- took six months to heal.
 The trial continues today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); INSANITY DEFENSE (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ARRESTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); AIDS & HIV (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); PARANOIA (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); RAP MUSIC (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Hate Crimes

ORGANIZATION: Bar Veloce (NYC)

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise; Steven Johnson; Peter (Asst Dist Atty) Hinckley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



429 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: The Barriers to Better Health

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re the Personal Health column ''Vegetables? Sure. We'll Take Some Fries'' (Oct. 12): One barrier to increased produce consumption is that affordable fresh fruits and vegetables are not available to many Americans. 
 The flight of supermarkets to the suburbs, inadequate public transportation and limited options at corner stores make it difficult for people in low-income neighborhoods to buy healthy foods. 
 These are key barriers to overcome if we hope to help the families most susceptible to obesity and related health problems. 

ROBIN MOCKENHAUPT
Princeton, N.J.

The writer is a senior official at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); OBESITY (86%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); WRITERS (86%); NUTRITION (86%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%); TRENDS (85%); SUBURBS (84%); FOUNDATIONS (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (51%) Medicine and Health; Fruit; Vegetables; Weight; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Johnson, Robert Wood, Foundation

PERSON: Robin Mockenhaupt; Jane E Brody

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



430 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Taking aim at ads for the purple pill, a lawsuit says the selling of Nexium is costing society billions.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE issue of advertising prescription drugs directly to consumers is at the heart of a lawsuit filed yesterday against the pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca by a coalition of consumer activists representing labor, retired workers and the elderly. 
 The lawsuit, filed in a state court in Los Angeles, takes on a familiar target -- the decision by AstraZeneca in 2001 to introduce one drug, Nexium, to replace another, Prilosec, as the patent protection for Prilosec was expiring.
 The new element is the claim that the billions of dollars subsequently spent by AstraZeneca on advertising, promotions and other marketing persuaded consumers to shun much cheaper alternatives like generic drugs and Prilosec in its over-the-counter iteration by wrongfully presenting Nexium as more effective in treating acid reflux.
 Directing ads for prescription drugs to consumers ''is not wrong, because it's legal,'' Steve W. Berman of the Seattle law firm of Hagens Berman, which filed the lawsuit, said in a telephone interview. ''What's wrong here is that it was deceptive. 
 ''This is,'' he said, ''a prime example of the abuse that has led to billions of dollars being spent unnecessarily by consumers.'' 
 A spokesman for AstraZeneca, Jim Coyne, based in Wilmington, Del., said the accusations were ''simply not supported by the facts.''
 ''With respect to the advertising, from the time of launch to the present day we've advertised Nexium based on the strength of the data we have,'' Mr. Coyne said. ''All the statements we've made and continue to make about Nexium are supported by the data.''
 Nexium, approved three years ago by the Food and Drug Administration as a treatment for severe acid reflux disease, is AstraZeneca's best-selling drug and ranks No. 7 among all prescription drugs sold in the United States. The $257 million spent last year to promote Nexium to consumers, as estimated by Nielsen Monitor-Plus, ranked it first among all such drug advertising.
 Campaigns aimed at consumers for Nexium, promoting the brand as the ''purple pill,'' are created by Saatchi & Saatchi Healthcare in New York, part of the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group division of the Publicis Groupe. A spokeswoman for Publicis did not respond to a request for a comment.
 The coalition filing the lawsuit on behalf of consumers is made up of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the California Alliance for Retired Americans and the Congress of California Seniors. All three are among the 100 members of an organization called the Prescription Access Litigation Project, which litigates against what it considers to be the illegal price inflation of prescription drugs.
 ''As an organization, we don't have a position on direct-to-consumer drug advertising,'' Alex Sugerman-Brozan, director of the litigation project in Boston, said in a telephone interview. ''Speaking personally, on balance I feel it's a negative.''
 Such advertising ''can have a harmful effect when it convinces people to take a drug they don't really need,'' he added, ''or to take an expensive brand-name drug when an over-the-counter or generic drug would be better.''
 In this instance, Mr. Sugerman-Brozan said, the ads and promotions for Nexium ''caused millions of people to take a drug at inflated high prices'' because the over-the-counter version of Prilosec can run ''one-eighth the cost of prescription Nexium'' and is no different from Nexium in its treatment of acid reflux.
 The label for Nexium approved by the F.D.A. describes the results of four tests. In two tests, a 40-milligram dose of Nexium was described as healing patients more quickly than a 20-milligram dose of Prilosec; the two other tests were described as inconclusive.
 ''The truth,'' the lawsuit says, ''is that there is no evidence that Nexium is superior, at standard doses, to Prilosec and other P.P.I.'s,'' using the initials for the class of drugs of their type, known as proton pump inhibitors.
 Daniel J. Jaffe, executive vice president and the director head of the Washington office of the Association of National Advertisers, the trade organization for marketers, said he could not comment on specifics because he had not had a chance to read the papers filed in the lawsuit. Generally, Mr. Jaffe said, ''there is no other area of advertising more heavily regulated and restricted'' than prescription drug ads directed at consumers.
 ''The F.D.A. scrutinizes these ads, with very heavy penalties for any false and deceptive claims by the drug companies,'' Mr. Jaffe said, ''and no matter what it says in an ad, no one can get access to these products unless they get a prescription from a doctor, who is making the final determination.''
 Mr. Jaffe said it was too soon to tell whether the lawsuit represented a new threat to direct-to-consumer advertising, which totaled an estimated $3.8 billion last year.
 The lawsuit was filed in California, Mr. Berman, the plaintiffs' lawyer, said, because the state has laws covering unfair competition and false advertising that are considered favorable to consumers.
 The lawsuit seeks no specific amount of damages. It asks for AstraZeneca to make ''restitution and/or disgorgement of all unlawful or illegal profits'' earned through selling Nexium as well as pay interest on those profits and cover the legal costs of the organizations bringing the lawsuit.
 The lawsuit is the first time the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has been a part of the litigation project, according to Mr. Sugerman-Brozan, who called that a significant step in efforts to hold down health care costs by reducing the prices that union members pay for drugs and medicines.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A print ad for AstraZeneca's nonprescription heartburn medication Prilosec. A group of consumers and unions contend the drug maker's heavy promotion of the prescription drug Nexium is deceptive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); LITIGATION (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); GASTROESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); PATENT LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ETHICS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RANKINGS (62%); PATENTS (56%) Heartburn; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Advertising and Marketing; Misleading and Deceptive Advertising; Nexium (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prilosec (Drug); Inventions and Patents; Heartburn

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (96%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (52%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Astrazeneca; Hagens Berman of Seattle

TICKER: AZN (STO) (96%); AZN (NYSE) (96%); AZN (LSE) (96%); PUB (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (52%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (52%)

PERSON: Steven W Berman; Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



431 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.B.M. Beats Forecasts And Sees Strong Market
I.B.M., the world's largest computer maker and technology services supplier, reported third-quarter profits that exceeded Wall Street's expectations. Growth was strong in the United States, and in emerging markets like China, India and Russia.
 The company said it expected information technology spending this year to have its strongest gain since 2000. [C7.]

Two Law Firms to Join Forces
Piper Rudnick, a corporate law firm with offices mainly in the mid-Atlantic region and Midwest, will merge with Gray Cary, a technology-focused California firm, to create one of the largest national firms. [C7.]

Kmart Chooses Chief Executive
Kmart is replacing its president and chief executive, Julian C. Day, left, with Aylwin B. Lewis, an outsider whose background is in the fast-food restaurant business. Mr. Lewis was hired from Yum Brands, which owns Kentucky Fried Chicken and other restaurant chains. Mr. Day will remain on the board. [C3.]

Shares in Hospice Company Plunge
Odyssey Healthcare, which provides hospice care for people nearing death, reduced its profit forecasts and said the Justice Department was investigating its operations. Its stock fell 47 percent. [C2.]

Subpoena on Military Insurance
American Amicable Life Insurance confirmed that the Justice Department had subpoenaed documents relating to its sale of insurance products to military personnel and other federal employees. [C3]

MCI to Write Down Network Value
MCI said it planned to take a $3.5 billion charge to better reflect the loss in value of its phone and data networks. [C7.]

Foreign Capital Flow Is Down
The flow of capital into the United States shrank in August as investors lost some interest in American stocks and bonds. [C13.]

3M Earnings Disappoint Investors
3M reported a 17 percent rise in third-quarter earnings, but the results came in below Wall Street's estimates, and the shares fell 2.4 percent. The company, the maker of Scotch tape and Post-it notes, forecast weaker-than-expected earnings in the current quarter. It cited rising prices for raw materials and problems with short-term inventories. [C3.]

Radar Magazine Finds Financing
Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the owner of The Daily News, and Jeffrey Epstein, a Wall Street financier, agreed to finance Radar, a celebrity and pop culture magazine. [E1.]

Stocks Rise as Oil Prices Ease
A drop in oil prices gave some relief to the stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 22.94 points to 9,956.32, while the S.&P. 500 was up 5.82 points at 1,114.02. [C13.]

AstraZeneca Sued Over Advertising
A coalition of consumer activists filed suit against AstraZeneca, claiming that its marketing of Nexium for acid reflux was deceptive. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]

Everyone Wants a Company Plane
An industry convention showed that after a slump, the corporate aircraft business is picking up. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,956.32 up 22.94Nasdaq composite -- 1,936.52 up 25.0210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.05% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2501 up 0.0021The dollar -- 109.27 yen up 0.08Graph: ''TODAY'' shows consumer price index.September figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2%Graph: ''TODAY'' shows housing construction.September figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -2.5%Graph tracks share prices of 3M for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOSPICE (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DLA PIPER LLP (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (56%); GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC (55%); AMERICAN-AMICABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (56%); GTIV (NASDAQ) (55%); AZN (STO) (50%); AZN (NYSE) (50%); AZN (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (55%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JULIAN C DAY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



432 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FACT CHECK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Goes Beyond Some of Bush Positions

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
After weeks of facing attacks that his campaign and outside commentators called distortions, Senator John Kerry has begun criticizing President Bush on Social Security and the draft in a manner that reaches far beyond Mr. Bush's positions.
 Mr. Kerry may also have exaggerated the president's responsibility for the shortage of flu vaccine. 
 On Social Security, Mr. Kerry said over the weekend that Mr. Bush planned a ''January surprise'' that could cost retirees up to 45 percent of their monthly checks. On the draft, Mr. Kerry told The Des Moines Register last week that there was ''the great potential of the draft'' if Mr. Bush won a second term. And on the vaccine, Mr. Kerry has maintained for days that the president ignored warnings of a shortage.
 ''As John Kerry loses momentum and slips in the polls,'' a spokesman for the Bush campaign, Steve Schmidt, said, ''he's grasping at issues in the headlines and makes a series of false and baseless attacks.'' 
 The truth is that Mr. Bush has promised not to cut the Social Security benefits of current retirees or those nearing retirement age. He said flatly in the debate on Wednesday that he had no plans to reinstate military conscription. 
 And as for the vaccine shortage, experts say Congress is as much to blame as the president for allowing domestic manufacturers to stop production. In his years in the Senate, Mr. Kerry apparently never addressed the matter, either.
 A campaign spokesman, David Wade, said Mr. Kerry had not changed tactics but had simply seized on issues at the top of the news to illustrate that Mr. Bush ''refuses to take the blame for anything'' and ''consistently misleads the American people on important issues.''

Social Security
 Mr. Kerry's accusation on Social Security grew out of an article on Sunday in The New York Times Magazine in which the president was quoted as telling a group of Republican donors at a private meeting last month, ''I'm going to come out strong after my swearing-in with fundamental tax reform, tort reform, privatizing of Social Security.''
 Mr. Schmidt said Mr. Bush had been misquoted and had never used the word ''privatization'' to describe his policy.
 At a church in Columbus, Ohio, on Sunday, Mr. Kerry jumped on the passage. ''The president's privatization plan for Social Security is another way of saying to our seniors that the promise of security is going to be broken,'' he said. ''Even the president's own economic advisers say that this'll blow a $2 trillion hole in Social Security.''
 He asserted that the plan could cost retirees ''up to $500 a month'' that would otherwise be spent ''for food, for clothing, for a grandchild.''
 For decades, Democrats have found mileage in painting Republicans as threats to Social Security.
 Since his 2000 campaign, Mr. Bush has advocated allowing workers to put some of their Social Security tax money into personal retirement accounts that could be invested in the private markets. The theory is that Social Security payments would be reduced but that the shortfall would be more than offset by the increased earnings over the years from the private investments.
 Mr. Bush has never endorsed a specific plan and has insisted that benefits for current retirees and people near retirement age would never be reduced.
 A policy specialist on Mr. Kerry's campaign staff, Jason Furman, said Mr. Kerry was relying on a study this year by the Congressional Budget Office of one of three plans developed by a commission that Mr. Bush established in 2001 to study establishing personal accounts under Social Security. This plan was also analyzed this year in the annual Economic Report of the President. Mr. Furman said it was fair for Mr. Kerry to use figures from this plan, even though the president has not embraced it, because it was the only one that staff experts in Congress and the White House had analyzed.
 The analyses showed that the plan would cost the government $2 trillion -- the number Mr. Kerry used -- to keep paying benefits to retirees while part of workers' taxes went to their personal accounts. The analyses also showed that a 34-year-old now earning the median national income could expect $342 less each month in government retirement benefits. Younger people would have their benefits cut even more. 
 Mr. Kerry's implication, though he did not explicitly say it, was that current retirees would have their benefits cut if Mr. Bush won. 

The Draft
 In the Des Moines interview, Mr. Kerry said, ''With George Bush, the plan for Iraq is more of the same and the great potential of the draft, because if we go it alone, I don't know how you do it with the current overextension'' of the military. 
 Everyone agrees that the Army is overextended. But Mr. Bush insisted in the debate on Oct. 8: ''We're not going to have a draft, period. The all-volunteer Army works.'' 
 In any event, the chances are extremely remote that Congress would approve a general draft.
 On Friday, Mike McCurry, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, suggested that Mr. Kerry was ''not alleging that there's a secret plan or anything like that'' for the draft but simply mentioning a possibility in answer to a question from the paper. 
 Even so, a group that supports Mr. Kerry, Win Back Respect, said its advertising in swing states raised prospects restarting the draft.

Flu Vaccine
 Over the weekend, Mr. Kerry began ridiculing Mr. Bush about the vaccine shortage, and his campaign began a television spot calling the problem ''a George Bush mess.'' Yesterday, Mr. Kerry offered his plan, including a government promise to buy excess serum from manufacturers and create a stockpile.
 Mr. Kerry is correct about warnings of a shortage over the last year. But like Mr. Bush, he never raised the issue until it erupted. Mr. Bush said in the debate last week that the ultimate cause of the shortage was manufacturers' fears of lawsuits.
 Experts said that was not a main reason to halt production, because a law already offers government protection against such liability.
 Mr. Kerry's camp spread the word yesterday that the National Vaccine Advisory Committee of the Health and Human Services Department had reported the litigation threat was not a cause of the shortage. 
 That report was dated January 2003. It said, ''Current vaccine shortages do not appear to be liability related.'' Two sentences before that, it said, ''Today, litigation again threatens stability of the vaccine program in the form of class-action lawsuits.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); DRUG SHORTAGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AGING (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ANTIVIRALS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); INFLUENZA (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); TAX LAW (65%); TAX REFORM (61%); TORT REFORM (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Social Security (US); Draft and Recruitment (Military); Influenza; Shortages; Vaccination and Immunization; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%) David E Rosenbaum; David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



433 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3299 words

HEADLINE: Bush vs. the Laureates: How Science Became a Partisan Issue

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Why is science seemingly at war with President Bush?
 For nearly four years, and with rising intensity, scientists in and out of government have criticized the Bush administration, saying it has selected or suppressed research findings to suit preset policies, skewed advisory panels or ignored unwelcome advice, and quashed discussion within federal research agencies. 
 Administration officials see some of the criticism as partisan, and some perhaps a function of unrealistic expectations on the part of scientists about their role in policy debates. ''This administration really does not like regulation and it believes in market processes in general,'' said Dr. John H. Marburger III, the president's science adviser, who is a Democrat. 
 ''So there's always going to be a tilt in an administration like this one to a certain set of actions that you take to achieve some policy objective,'' he went on. ''In general, science may give you some limits and tell you some boundary conditions on that set of actions, but it really doesn't tell you what to do.''
 Dr. Jesse H. Ausubel, an expert on energy and climate at Rockefeller University, said some of the bitterness expressed by other researchers could stem from their being excluded from policy circles that were open to them under previous administrations. ''So these people who believe themselves important feel themselves belittled,'' he said.
 Indeed, much of the criticism has come from private groups, like the Union of Concerned Scientists and many environmental organizations, with long records of opposing positions the administration favors.
 Nevertheless, political action by scientists has not been so forceful since 1964, when Barry Goldwater's statements promoting the deployment of battlefield nuclear weapons spawned the creation of the 100,000-member group Scientists and Engineers for Johnson.
 This year, 48 Nobel laureates dropped all pretense of nonpartisanship as they signed a letter endorsing Senator John Kerry. ''Unlike previous administrations, Republican and Democratic alike, the Bush administration has ignored unbiased scientific advice in the policy making that is so important to our collective welfare,'' they wrote. The critics include members of past Republican administrations.
 And battles continue to erupt in government agencies over how to communicate research findings that might clash with administration policies. 
 This month, three NASA scientists and several officials at NASA headquarters and at two agency research centers described how news releases on new global warming studies had been revised by administrators to play down definitiveness or risks. The scientists and officials said other releases had been delayed. ''You have to be evenhanded in reporting science results, and it's apparent that there is a tendency for that not to be occurring now,'' said Dr. James E. Hansen, a climate expert who is director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in Manhattan.
 Glenn Mahone, the assistant administrator of NASA for public affairs, yesterday denied that any releases on climate had been held up or modified by anything other than normal reviews. ''There has been a slowdown,'' he said. 
 But he insisted, ''There is nothing in terms of any kind of approval process with the White House.''
 Earlier this year, after continuing complaints that the White House was asking litmus-test questions of nominees for scientific advisory panels, the first question asked of a candidate for a panel on Arctic issues, the candidate said, was: ''Do you support the president?''
 When asked about such incidents, officials with the Bush campaign call attention to Mr. Bush's frequent queries to the National Academy of Sciences as evidence of his desire for good advice on technical issues.
 ''This president believes in pursuing the best, most objective science, and his record proves that,'' said Brian Jones, a campaign spokesman. 
 Yet complaints about the administration's approach to scientific information are coming even from within the government. Many career scientists and officials have expressed frustration and anger privately but were unwilling to be identified for fear of losing their jobs. But a few have stepped forward, including Dr. Hansen at NASA, who has been researching global warming and conveying its implications to Congress and the White House for two decades.
 Dr. Hansen, who was invited to brief the Bush cabinet twice on climate and whose work has been cited by Mr. Bush, said he had decided to speak publicly about the situation because he was convinced global warming posed a serious threat and that further delays in addressing it would add to the risks.
 ''It's something that I've been worrying about for months,'' he said, describing his decision. ''If I don't do something now I'll regret it. 
 ''Under the Clinton-Gore administration, you did have occasions when Al Gore knew the answer he wanted, and he got annoyed if you presented something that wasn't consistent with that,'' Dr. Hansen said. ''I got a little fed up with him, but it was not institutionalized the way it is now.''
 Under the Bush administration, he said, ''they're picking and choosing information according to the answer that they want to get, and they've appointed so many people who are just focused on this that they really are having an impact on the day-to-day flow of information.''
 Disputes between scientists and the administration have erupted over stem cell policy, population control and Iraq's nuclear weapons research. But nowhere has the clash been more intense or sustained than in the area of climate change. 
 There the intensity of the disagreements has been stoked not only by disputes over claimed distortion or suppression of research findings, but on the other side by the enormous economic implications. 
 Several dozen interviews with administration officials and with scientists in and out of government, along with a variety of documents, show that the core of the clash is over instances in which scientists say that objective and relevant information is ignored or distorted in service of pre-established policy goals. Scientists were essentially locked out of important internal White House debates; candidates for advisory panels were asked about their politics as well as their scientific work; and the White House exerted broad control over how scientific findings were to be presented in public reports or news releases. 

An Early Skirmish
 Climate emerged as a prickly issue in the first months of Mr. Bush's term, when the White House began forging its energy policy and focusing on ways to increase domestic use of coal and production of oil.
 In March 2001, a White House team used a single economic analysis by the Energy Department to build a case that Mr. Bush quickly used to back out of his campaign pledge to restrict power plant discharges of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming. 
 The analysis, from December 2000, was based on a number of assumptions, including one that no technological innovation would occur. The result showed that prompt cuts in carbon dioxide from power plants would weaken the economy. 
 Other analyses, including some by other branches of the Department of Energy, drew different conclusions but were ignored.
 Advice from climate experts at the Environmental Protection Agency was sought but also ignored. A March 7 memorandum from agency experts to the White House team recommended that the carbon dioxide pledge be kept, saying the Energy Department study ''was based on assumptions that do not apply'' to Mr. Bush's plan and ''inflates the costs of achieving carbon dioxide reductions.'' The memo was given to The New York Times by a former E.P.A. official who says science was not adequately considered.
 Nonetheless, the White House team stuck to its course, drafting a memo on March 8 to John Bridgeland, the president's domestic policy adviser, that used the energy study to argue for abandoning the campaign promise.
 None of the authors was a scientist. The team consisted of Cesar Conda, an adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney and now a political consultant; Andrew Lundquist, the White House energy policy director, who is now an energy lobbyist; Kyle E. McSlarrow, the chairman of Dan Quayle's 2000 presidential campaign and now deputy secretary of energy; Robert C. McNally Jr., an energy and economic analyst who is now an investment banker; Karen Knutson, a deputy on energy policy and a former Republican Senate aide; and Marcus Peacock, an analyst on science and energy issues from the Office of Management and Budget. They concluded that Mr. Bush could continue to say he believed that global warming was occurring but make a case that ''any specific policy proposals or approaches aimed at addressing global warming must await further scientific inquiry.''
 A copy of the memo was recently given to The New York Times by a White House adviser at the time who now disagrees with the administration's chosen policies.
 The Environmental Protection Agency tried one more time to argue that Mr. Bush should not change course.
 In a section of a March 9 memo to the White House headed ''Global warming science is compelling,'' agency officials said: ''The science is strongest on the fact that carbon dioxide is contributing, and will continue to contribute, to global climate change. The greatest scientific uncertainties concern how fast the climate will change and what will be the regional impacts. Even within these bands of uncertainty, however, it is clear that global warming is an issue that must be addressed.''
 On March 13, Mr. Bush signed and sent a letter to four Republican senators who had sought clarification of the administration's climate plans. In it, Mr. Bush described the Energy Department study as ''important new information that warrants a re-evaluation, especially at a time of rising energy prices and a serious energy shortage.''
 He said reconsideration of the carbon dioxide curbs was particularly appropriate ''given the incomplete state of scientific knowledge of the causes of, and solutions to, global climate change.''
 The letter also reiterated his longstanding opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, the climate treaty now moving toward enactment in almost all other industrialized countries.
 In the next months, the White House set up a series of briefings on climate science and economics for the cabinet and also sought the advice of the National Academy of Sciences. The experts convened by the academy reaffirmed the scientific consensus that recent warming has human causes and that significant risks lie ahead. But the administration's position on what to do has not changed. 

Hidden Assumptions
 A handful of experts who have worked on climate policy in the Bush and Clinton administrations say that both tried to skew information to favor policies, but that there were distinct differences.
 Andrew G. Keeler, who until June 2001 was on the president's Council of Economic Advisers and has since returned to teaching at the University of Georgia, said the Clinton administration had also played with economic calculations of the costs of curbing carbon dioxide emissions, in its case to show that limiting emissions would not be expensive.
 But it made available all of the assumptions that went into its analysis, he said; by contrast, the Bush administration drew contorted conclusions but never revealed the details. 
 ''The Clinton administration got these lowest possible costs by taking every assumption that would bias them down,'' he said. ''But they were very clear about what the assumptions were. Anybody who wanted to could wade through them.''

Tilting the Discussion
 Some of the loudest criticisms of the administration on climate science have centered on changes to reports and other government documents dealing with the causes and consequences of global warming. 
 Political appointees have regularly revised news releases on climate from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, altering headlines and opening paragraphs to play down the continuing global warming trend.
 The changes are often subtle, but they consistently shift the meaning of statements away from a sense that things are growing warmer in unusual ways.
 The pattern has appeared in reports from other agencies as well. 
 Several sets of drafts and final press releases from NOAA on temperature trends were provided to The Times by government employees who said they were dismayed by the practice.
 On Aug. 14, 2003, a news release summarizing July temperature patterns began as a draft with this headline: ''NOAA reports record and near-record July heat in the West, cooler than average in the East, global temperature much warmer than average.''
 When it emerged from NOAA headquarters, it read: ''NOAA reports cooler, wetter than average in the East, hot in the West.''
 Such efforts have continued in recent weeks. Scientists at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies, a leading research center studying climate, worked with public affairs officials last month to finish a release on new studies explaining why Antarctica had experienced cooling while most of the rest of the world had warmed.
 The results, just published in a refereed scientific journal, showed that the depletion of the ozone layer over Antarctica had temporarily shifted atmospheric conditions in a way that cooled the region, but that as the layer heals in coming decades, Antarctica would quickly warm. 
 The headline initially approved by the agency's public affairs office and the scientists was ''Cool Antarctica May Warm Rapidly This Century, Study Finds.''
 The version that finally emerged on Oct. 6 after review by political appointees was titled ''Study Shows Potential for Antarctic Climate Change.'' 
 More significant than such changes has been the scope and depth of involvement by administration appointees in controlling information flowing through the farthest reaches of government on issues that could undermine policies. 
 Jeffrey Ruch, who runs Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, a network for whistle-blowers who identify government actions that violate environmental laws or rules, said the Bush administration had taken information control to a level far beyond that of its predecessor. 
 ''The Clinton administration was less organized and systematic, with lots of infighting, kind of like the old Will Rogers joke 'I belong to no organized political party; I'm a Democrat,''' Mr. Ruch said. 
 ''This group, for good or ill, is much more centralized,'' he added. ''It's very controlled in the sense that almost no decision, even personnel decisions, can be made without clearance from the top. In the realm of science that becomes problematic, because science isn't neat like that.''
 Dr. Marburger, the president's science adviser, defended such changes. 
 ''This administration clearly has an attitude about climate change and climate science, and it's much more cautious than the previous administration,'' Dr. Marburger said. ''This administration also tries to be consistent in its messages. It's an inevitable consequence that you're going to get this kind of tuning up of language.''

Choosing Advisers
 Another area where the issue of scientific distortion keeps surfacing is in the composition of advisory panels. In a host of instances documented in news reports and by groups like the Union of Concerned Scientists, candidates have been asked about their politics. In March 2003, the American Association for the Advancement of Science criticized thosequeries, saying in a statement that the practice ''compromises the integrity of the process of receiving advice and is inappropriate.'' Despite three years of charges that it is remaking scientific and medical advisory panels to favor the goals of industry or social conservatives, the White House has continued to ask some panel nominees not only about their political views, but explicitly whether they support Mr. Bush.
 One recent candidate was Prof. Sharon L. Smith, an expert on Arctic marine ecology at the University of Miami. 
 On March 12, she received a call from the White House. She had been nominated to take a seat about to open up on the Arctic Research Commission, a panel of presidential appointees that helps shape research on issues in the far north, including the debate over oil exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
 The woman calling from the White House office of presidential personnel complimented her resume, Dr. Smith recalled, then asked the first and -- as it turned out -- only question: ''Do you support the president?''
 ''I was taking notes,'' Dr. Smith recalled. ''I'm thinking I've lost my mind. I was in total shock. I'd never been asked that before.''
 She responded she was not a fan of Mr. Bush's economic and foreign policies. ''That was the end of the interview,'' she said. ''I was removed from consideration instantly.'' 
 In interviews, senior administration officials said that most advisory panels reflected a broad array of opinions and backgrounds and that Mr. Bush had the right at least to know where candidates stood on his policies. 
 ''The people who end up on these panels tend to be pretty diverse and clearly don't all support the president's policies,'' Dr. Marburger said. ''I think you'd have to say that the question is not a litmus-test question. It's perfectly acceptable for the president to know if someone he's appointing to one of his advisory committees supports his policies or not.''

Inevitable Tension
 To some extent, the war between science and the administration is a culture clash, both supporters and critics of Mr. Bush say. 
 ''He uses a Sharpie pen,'' said John L. Howard Jr., a former adviser to Mr. Bush on the environment in both the White House and the Texas statehouse. ''He's not a pencil with an eraser kind of guy.''
 In the campaign, Mr. Bush's team has portrayed this trait as an asset. His critics in the sciences say it is a dangerous liability.
 Dr. Marburger argues that when scientific information is flowing through government agencies, the executive branch has every right to sift for inconsistencies and adjust the tone to suit its policies, as long as the result remains factual. 
 He said the recent ferment, including the attacks from the Union of Concerned Scientists, Democrats and environmental groups, all proved that the system works and that objective scientific information ultimately comes to the surface.
 ''I think people overestimate the power of government to affect science,'' he said. ''Science has so many self-correcting aspects that I'm not really worried about these things.''
 He acknowledged that environmental and medical issues, in particular, would continue to have a difficult time in the policy arena, because the science was fundamentally more murky than in, say, physics or chemistry.
 ''I'm a physicist,'' Dr. Marburger said. ''I know what you have to do to design an experiment where you get an unambiguous result. There is nothing like that in health and environment.''
 The situation is not likely to get better any time soon, say a host of experts, in part because of the growing array of issues either underlaid by science, like global warming, or created by science, like genetic engineering and cloning. 
 ''Since the Sputnik era we have not seen science and technology so squarely in the center of the radar screen for people in either the executive branch or Congress,'' said Charles M. Vest, the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a member of the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology. ''I think it's inevitable we're going to have increasing conflicts and arguments about the role it plays in policy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. John H. Marburger III, the president's science adviser. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 ''You have to be evenhanded in reporting science results,'' said Dr. James E. Hansen, a climate expert. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. F9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ETHICS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); CENSORSHIP (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) United States Politics and Government; Science and Technology; Weather; Global Warming; Ethics; United States Politics and Government; Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Fetal Tissue; Atomic Weapons; Censorship; Research; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (82%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Goddard Institute for Space Studies; Union of Concerned Scientists; Union of Concerned Scientists

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Andrew C Revkin; George W (Pres) Bush; John H III (Dr) Marburger; James E (Dr) Hansen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



434 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SURVEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Bush Leads. Make That Kerry. Why Can't the Pollsters Agree?

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18 

 BODY:
What is going to happen on Election Day? It depends on which pollster you ask.
 President Bush leads Senator John Kerry by a margin of eight points among likely voters, according to the most recent poll from Gallup, USA Today and CNN. The margin of sampling error was four points.
 But wait: Mr. Bush is up by only three points in the latest tracking poll from ABC News and The Washington Post, although with a margin of error of three percentage points. 
 Not so fast: The race is actually even, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. And Time magazine's new poll says much the same thing.
 But while the headlines they produce may diverge, the actual findings of these polls may not be so different. The differing conclusions reflect how different pollsters use complex formulas to interpret very similar findings among self-described registered voters and try to come up with a result they think best accounts for who will actually show up at the polls.
 The different interpretations have drawn a litany of complaints from partisans on both sides. Some are questioning everything about the surveys, including pollsters' political motives, their methodologies and whether accurate polling can be done in the age of cellular phones that cannot be called and caller ID systems that make screening out unfamiliar numbers easy.
 But pollsters, who insist that they have the best intentions, say the differences in their surveys only highlight the difficulties this year in determining who is going to vote, no small task at a time of unusually high voter interest and many new voter registrations. And how pollsters set about figuring that out, they say, can make all of the difference in how the results are presented on television and in newspapers.
 Five polls taken from Oct. 14 to Oct. 17 found similar results among registered voters. Mr. Kerry received support from 45 percent to 46 percent of those surveyed; Mr. Bush received from 45 percent to 49 percent. These polls, all with margins of error of plus or minus three or four points, showed the race as either tied among registered voters or with Mr. Bush ahead by two to three points -- in each case a statistical tie.
 But when Newsweek, for instance, looked not at registered voters but at ''likely voters,'' Mr. Bush's lead grew to six points, from just two -- still within the poll's margin of error, though a more impressive-sounding lead to the average voter. 
 Similarly, when the Gallup Organization applied its formula, Mr. Bush's three-point lead among registered voters grew to eight points among ''likely voters.'' With a four-point margin of error on each candidate's result, even this seemingly larger lead was at the edge of the poll's margin of error. 
 Pollsters say they have to look closely at likely voters because many registered voters do not show up come Election Day. In 2000, for instance, more than 30 percent of registered voters did not vote. 
 But pollsters acknowledge that the winnowing process calls for more art than science.
 ''Science is put in place and then the pollster has to exercise judgment about how to define likely voters,'' said Nancy Belden, president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research. ''And every polling organization may define a likely voter slightly differently, or in some cases, more than slightly differently than the next polling organizations.'' 
 Ms. Belden added, ''Each organization is doing its best to try to define the voters in the way that that organization thinks is closest to the truth.'' 
 Gallup, for instance, uses a mixture of questions to determine likely voting based on how seriously a respondent is planning to vote and how frequently he has voted in the past. It gauges this with seven questions, including one about whether the respondent knows where the local polling place is. After estimating what the actual turnout will be, Gallup includes the preferences of just that fraction of their respondents.
 The New York Times and CBS, on the other hand, include responses from all those determined to be likely voters, but gives some of their votes more weight than others depending on how they fit on a scale rating their likelihood of voting. 
 Trying to divine likely voters is nothing new. And there are plenty of other factors that can affect the polls, from the way questions are asked to the dates of the poll.
 Several pollsters said, for instance, that some polls seemed to give Mr. Bush a bigger edge because they were taken amid news reports about Mr. Kerry's referring in a debate to Vice President Dick Cheney's daughter's sexual orientation. The comment did not sit well with some people and was denounced by Mr. Cheney and his wife, Lynne.
 But this year is presenting new, complicating factors, from the closeness of the race to the influx of new registered voters.
 ''There are many things about this election that may be different than past elections, and one is this phenomenon of how many people are possibly registered,'' Ms. Belden said. ''That could make an enormous difference.'' 
 Hundreds of thousands of new voters have been added to the registration rolls in states like Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio, by some estimates. Since many of these people have not been regular voters, polls that weigh the likelihood of voting in part based on past behavior may not be taking sufficient account of them. 
 The same goes for increased voting registrations among younger voters, many of whom seem excited about voting for the first time, according to pollsters. Pollsters have varying opinions about whether or not these people will show up at the polls just because they registered.
 Pollsters say voters need to be cautious about putting too much stock in any single poll.
 ''We're basically trying to get a read on the electorate as of the day that we're polling,'' said Jeffrey M. Jones, managing editor of the Gallup Poll, ''not necessarily trying to predict what's going to happen on Election Day itself.''
 Pollsters from both parties said the best thing to do was to take all of the public polls and average them together. By that count, it is Bush by a nose. For now. 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Trying to Figure Out Who Might Show Up''Some recent polls on the presidential race by news organizations show different results, depending on whether the respondents are considered likely voters or registered voters. Each poll has its own method for determining which respondents might be considered likely voters, based on questions of past voting history and attention being paid to the campaign, among others, as well as whether they say they are likely to vote.CNN/USA Today/GallupOct. 14-16
4 points margin of sampling errorRegistered votersBUSH%: 49KERRY%: 46BUSH: +3Likely votersBUSH%: 52KERRY%: 44BUSH: +8NewsweekOct.14-15
4 pointsRegistered votersBUSH%: 48KERRY%: 46BUSH: +2Likely votersBUSH%: 50KERRY%: 44BUSH: +6New York Times/CBS News*Oct. 14-17
3 pointsRegistered votersBUSH%: 45KERRY%: 45BUSH: 0Likely votersBUSH%: 47KERRY%: 45BUSH: +2TimeOct. 14-15
4 pointsRegistered votersBUSH%: 46KERRY%: 46BUSH: 0Likely votersBUSH%: 48KERRY%: 47BUSH: +1ABC NewsOct. 14-17
 3 pointsRegistered votersBUSH%: 49KERRY%: 46BUSH: +3Likely votersBUSH%: 50KERRY%: 47BUSH: +3Average of the fiveRegistered votersBUSH%: 47KERRY%: 46BUSH: +1Likely votersBUSH%: 49KERRY%: 45BUSH: +4*Does not include undecided voters who said they leaned toward a particular candidate.Note: Poll results are from questions on a three-way race with President Bush, Senator John Kerry and Ralph Nader. Margin of sampling error applies to each candidate's number. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (99%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); RALPH NADER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



435 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: After Disappointing Quarter, Toymakers Are Cautious of Holiday

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The two top toymakers in the United States posted disappointing third-quarter results yesterday and softened expectations for the crucial holiday season, citing a wobbly economy and cautious retailers.
 The No. 1 toy maker, Mattel Inc., said third-quarter earnings slid 5 percent from a year earlier, with overall sales down 2 percent. Sales of Barbie dolls in the United States fell 26 percent. Mattel said it was struggling to hang on to shelf space at retailers. 
 The other toy maker, Hasbro Inc., posted higher third-quarter earnings as it cut costs, but the results were weaker than expected, with revenue down 2 percent as sales of its once-hot Beyblade battling tops continued falling.
 Hasbro shares slipped 6.5 percent to $17.26, while Mattel shares were down 2.6 percent at $17.50. Both toymakers said the retail environment remained challenging.
 ''We are currently dealing with broad consumer uncertainty related to higher gasoline prices and a lackluster employment picture, which translates into uninspiring consumer confidence levels,'' Robert A. Eckert, the chief executive of Mattel, said.
 On a conference call, Mr. Eckert said most retailers were allocating shelf space based on past performance and would rather ''chase demand'' than buy goods early. 
 Sean McGowan, an analyst at Harris Nesbitt, said: ''Both companies are facing the fact that some of their products are declining. I don't think anybody's not buying a particular toy because it costs more to drive to the toy store or Wal-Mart.''
 Roughly 50 percent of toy sales are in the fourth quarter, according to the NPD Group, a market information company. Adding to the dismal retail landscape, Toys ''R'' Us Inc., the No. 2 toy seller after Wal-Mart Stores Inc., is evaluating its business and analysts have estimated the company will close 100 to 200 stores in 2005.
 Mattel said third-quarter earnings fell to $255.9 million, or 61 cents a share, from $270 million, or 61 cents, while sales fell 2 percent, to $1.67 billion.
 Hasbro, based in Pawtucket, R.I., said third-quarter net income rose to $88.7 million from $85.8 million, while earnings fell to 45 cents a share from 48 cents.
 Analysts, on average, estimated profit of 51 cents a share from Hasbro, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Hasbro's revenue fell 2 percent, to $947.3 million. The chief executive, Alfred J. Verrecchia, said the company was confident that it could increase earnings as it cut costs and achieved its operating margin goal of 12 percent or better by 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (91%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) Toys; Sales; Company Reports

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (95%); MATTEL INC (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (82%); TOYS 'R' US INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Hasbro Inc; Mattel Inc

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (95%); MAT (NASDAQ) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (65%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (65%)

PERSON: ROBERT A ECKERT (72%); ALFRED VERRECCHIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (51%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



436 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: ROAD TO WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4863 words

HEADLINE: The Strategy to Secure Iraq Did Not Foresee a 2nd War

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
Gen. Tommy R. Franks climbed out of a C-130 plane at the Baghdad airport on April 16, 2003, and pumped his fist into the air. American troops had pushed into the capital of liberated Iraq little more than a week before, and it was the war commander's first visit to the city.
 Much of the Sunni Triangle was only sparsely patrolled, and Baghdad was still reeling from a spasm of looting. Apache attack helicopters prowled the skies as General Franks headed to the Abu Ghraib North Palace, a retreat for Saddam Hussein that now served as the military's headquarters. 
 Huddling in a drawing room with his top commanders, General Franks told them it was time to make plans to leave. Combat forces should be prepared to start pulling out within 60 days if all went as expected, he said. By September, the more than 140,000 troops in Iraq could be down to little more than a division, about 30,000 troops. 
 To help bring stability and allow the Americans to exit, President Bush had reviewed a plan the day before seeking four foreign divisions -- including Arab and NATO troops -- to take on peacekeeping duties.
 As the Baghdad meeting drew to a close, the president in a teleconference congratulated the commanders on a job well done. Afterward, they posed for photos and puffed on victory cigars. 
 Within a few months, though, the Bush administration's optimistic assumptions had been upended. Many of the foreign troops never came. The Iraqi institutions expected to help run the country collapsed. The adversary that was supposed to have been shocked and awed into submission was reorganizing beyond the reach of overstretched American troops. 
 In the debate over the war and its aftermath, the Bush administration has portrayed the insurgency that is still roiling Iraq today as an unfortunate, and unavoidable, accident of history, an enemy that emerged only after melting away during the rapid American advance toward Baghdad. The sole mistake Mr. Bush has acknowledged in the war is in not foreseeing what he termed that ''catastrophic success.'' 
 But many military officers and civilian officials who served in Iraq in the spring and summer of 2003 say the administration's miscalculations cost the United States valuable momentum -- and enabled an insurgency that was in its early phases to intensify and spread.
 ''I think that there were Baathist Sunnis who planned to resist no matter what happened and at all cost, but we missed opportunities, and that drove more of them into the resistance,'' Jay Garner, the first civilian administrator of Iraq and a retired Army lieutenant general, said in an interview, referring to the Baath Party of Mr. Hussein and to his Sunni Muslim supporters. ''Things were stirred up far more than they should have been. We did not seal the borders because we did not have enough troops to do that, and that brought in terrorists.''
 A senior officer who served in Iraq but did not want to be identified because of the sensitivity of his position said: ''The real question is, did there have to be an insurgency? Did we help create the insurgency by missing the window of opportunity in the period right after Saddam was removed from power?'' 
 Looking back at that crucial time, those officers, administration officials and others provided an intimate and detailed account of how the postwar situation went awry. Civilian administrators of the Iraqi occupation raised concerns about plans to reduce American forces; intelligence agencies left American forces unprepared for the furious battles they encountered in Iraq's southern cities and did not emphasize the risks of a postwar insurgency. And senior American generals and civilians were at odds over plans to build a new Iraqi army, which was needed to impose order.

The First Principles
 In August 2002, leading administration officials circulated a top-secret document blandly titled, ''Iraq: Goals, Objectives and Strategy.'' Months of wrangling at the United Nations were still ahead, but senior officials were drafting the principles that would guide the invasion if the president gave the order to strike.
 The goals for Iraq were far-reaching. The aim was not just to topple a dictator, but also to build a democratic system. The United States would preserve, but reform, the bureaucracies that did the day-to-day work of running the country. There were some unstated objectives as well. Policy makers hoped that installing a pro-American government would put pressure on Syria to stop supporting terrorist groups and Iran to halt its nuclear weapons program. 
 But grand goals did not mean huge forces. From the start, the Pentagon's plan to invade Iraq was a striking contrast to the doctrine for using military power that was developed by Colin L. Powell when he was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Instead of assembling a giant invasion force over six months, as he did in the Persian Gulf war in 1991, the administration intended to attack with a much smaller force as reinforcements were still streaming to the Middle East. 
 The strategy was consistent with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's push to transform the military so it would rely less on heavy ground troops and more on technology, intelligence and special operations forces. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld had long been impatient with what he thought was a plodding, risk-averse and overly costly way of waging war. At General Franks's Central Command, planners thought that the new approach was necessary for another reason: to catch the Iraqis by surprise and prevent any efforts to sabotage the oil fields or stiffen their Baghdad defenses.
 ''Almost everybody worried about what would happen if the war were prolonged,'' Douglas J. Feith, the under secretary of defense, said in an interview. ''This highlighted the importance of speed and surprise. It argued for this unusual and creative way of starting the war, with fewer forces than Saddam expected us to have and to have the flow continue after the war started.'' 
 If the Iraqi Army mounted a tougher fight than anticipated, Mr. Feith said, the Pentagon could continue to send forces. If the resistance was light, as many civilian aides expected, Washington could stop the troop flow. There would be ''off ramps,'' in the vernacular of the Pentagon. 
 Achieving the administration's ambitions meant dealing with any turmoil that followed the collapse of Mr. Hussein's government and his iron-fisted security services. Administration officials assumed that American and multinational troops would help stabilize Iraq, but they also believed that the newly liberated Iraqis would share the burden.
 ''The concept was that we would defeat the army, but the institutions would hold, everything from ministries to police forces,'' Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, said in an interview. ''You would be able to bring new leadership but that we were going to keep the body in place.''

Early Warnings
 Some military men, though, were worried that the administration would be caught short. Gen. Hugh Shelton, who served as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the first nine months of the Bush administration, was one of them.
 General Shelton had contacts in the Middle East who had warned that Iraq could devolve into chaos after Mr. Hussein was deposed. 
 At a Pentagon meeting early in 2003 with former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, former vice chairmen and their successors, he voiced concerns that the United States would not have sufficient troops immediately after the dictator was ousted. He cautioned that it was important to have enough troops to deal with the unexpected. 
 At the White House, officials also were thinking about how many troops would be needed. 
 Military aides on the National Security Council prepared a confidential briefing for Ms. Rice and her deputy, Stephen J. Hadley, that examined what previous nation-building efforts had required. 
 The review, called ''Force Security in Seven Recent Stability Operations,'' noted that no single rule of thumb applied in every case. But it underscored a basic principle well known to military planners: However many forces might be required to defeat the foe, maintaining security afterward was determined by an entirely different set of calculations, including the population, the scope of the terrain and the necessary tasks. 
 If the United States and its allies wanted to maintain the same ratio of peacekeepers to population as it had in Kosovo, the briefing said, they would have to station 480,000 troops in Iraq. If Bosnia was used as benchmark, 364,000 troops would be needed. If Afghanistan served as the model, only 13,900 would be needed in Iraq. The higher numbers were consistent with projections later provided to Congress by Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, then the Army chief of staff, that several hundred thousand troops would be needed in Iraq. But Mr. Rumsfeld dismissed that estimate as ''way off the mark.'' 
 More forces generally are required to control countries with large urban populations. The briefing pointed out that three-quarters of Iraq's population lived in urban areas. In Bosnia and Kosovo, city dwellers made up half of the population. In Afghanistan, it was only 18 percent. 
 Neither the Defense Department nor the White House, however, saw the Balkans as a model to be emulated. In a Feb. 14, 2003, speech titled ''Beyond Nation Building,'' which Mr. Rumsfeld delivered in New York, he said the large number of foreign peacekeepers in Kosovo had led to a ''culture of dependence'' that discouraged local inhabitants from taking responsibility for themselves. 
 The defense secretary said he thought that there was much to be learned from Afghanistan, where the United States did not install a nationwide security force but relied instead on a new Afghan Army and troops from other countries to help keep the peace. 
 James F. Dobbins, who was the administration's special envoy for Afghanistan and had also served as the ambassador at large for Kosovo, Bosnia, Somalia and Haiti, thought that the administration was focusing on the wrong model. The former Yugoslavia -- with its ethnic divisions, hobbled economy and history of totalitarian rule -- had more parallels with Iraq than administration officials appeared willing to accept, Mr. Dobbins believed. It was Afghanistan that was the anomaly. 
 ''They preferred to find a model for successful nation building that was not associated with the previous administration,'' Mr. Dobbins said in an interview. ''And Afghanistan offered a much more congenial answer in terms of what would be required in terms of inputs, including troops.'' 
 As the Iraq war approached, Mr. Dobbins was overseeing a RAND Corporation study on nation building. The larger the number of security forces, the fewer the casualties suffered by alliance troops, the study asserted. When L. Paul Bremer III was appointed the chief administrator for Iraq in May 2003, Mr. Dobbins slipped him a copy. 
 By the end of 2002, the military was scrambling to get ready. The troop deployment plan had been devised so that the Pentagon could regulate the flow and send only as much as was needed. Throughout the process, Mr. Rumsfeld was scrutinizing the troop requests. Defense officials said he had wanted to ensure that the deployments did not outrun the United Nations diplomacy and added that requests for Iraq had to be examined because the United States faced other potential crises.

Concern in the Field
 But some military officers were concerned about what they perceived as second-guessing at the Pentagon, and complained of delays. One major troop request submitted in late November was not approved until a month later, for example.
 The issue came to the attention of Newt Gingrich, the former Republican Congressional leader and a member of the Defense Policy Board that advises Mr. Rumsfeld, during an early February 2003 meeting with American officers in Kuwait. He said he would go back and press the secretary to stop messing around with tactical-level decisions, according to an account of the session by participants. ''The worst they can do is take my designated parking space away,'' he said. 
 As the war drew near, Mr. Bush asked his senior commanders if they had sufficient forces, including enough to protect vulnerable supply lines. ''I can't tell you how many times he asked, 'Do you have everything that you need?''' Ms. Rice said. ''The answer was, these are the force levels that we need.''
 Senior military officers acknowledge that they did not press the president for more troops. But some said they would have been more comfortable with a larger reserve. And some officers say the concept of beginning the invasion while reinforcements were still being sent did not work so smoothly in practice. 
 On March 18, the day before the conflict began, the staff of the Joint Chiefs of Staff met to discuss plans for removing American forces once they had triumphed. Aides to General Franks argued that the meeting was premature. 
 As the American forces drove toward Baghdad in the early days of the war, the fighting was different than had been expected. Instead of a clash of armies, however mismatched, the American forces had to contend with paramilitary forces and even suicide bombers. Thousands of Saddam Fedayeen paramilitary troops had infested Iraq's southern cities and were using them as bases to attack American supply lines. 
 But after several days of hard battle, the Americans resumed their march north and began moving in for what they thought would be a climactic confrontation with the Republican Guard. With seemingly little doubt that the Americans would win, talk of withdrawal soon resurfaced. 
 In mid-April, Lawrence Di Rita, one of Mr. Rumsfeld's closest aides, arrived in Kuwait to join the team assembled by General Garner, the civil administrator, which was to oversee post-Hussein Iraq. Mr. Bush had agreed in January that the Defense Department was to have authority for postwar Iraq. It was the first time since World War II that the State Department would not take charge of a post-conflict situation. 
 Speaking to Garner aides at their hotel headquarters in Kuwait, Mr. Di Rita outlined the Pentagon's vision, one that seemed to echo the themes in Mr. Rumsfeld's Feb. 14 address. According to Col. Paul Hughes of the Army, who was present at the session, Mr. Di Rita said the Pentagon was determined to avoid open-ended military commitments like those in Bosnia and Kosovo, and to withdraw the vast majority of the American forces in three to four months. 
 ''The main theme was that D.O.D. would be in charge, and this would be totally different than in the past,'' said Tom Gross, a retired Army colonel and a Garner aide who was also at the session. ''We would be out very quickly. We were very confused. We did not see it as a short-term process.'' 
 Mr. Di Rita said in an interview that he had no responsibility for force levels, but added that military commanders wanted the postwar troop numbers to be as low as necessary. 
 Thomas E. White, then the secretary of the Army, said he had received similar guidance from Mr. Rumsfeld's office. ''Our working budgetary assumption was that 90 days after completion of the operation, we would withdraw the first 50,000 and then every 30 days we'd take out another 50,000 until everybody was back,'' he recalled. ''The view was that whatever was left in Iraq would be de minimis.''

Not Enough Troops
 Even as Mr. Hussein's government was losing its struggle to hold onto power, some preliminary reports suggested that Iraq could remain a battleground. 
 The National Intelligence Council had cautioned in a January 2003 report that the Iraqis would resent their liberators unless the American-led occupation authority moved quickly to restore essential services and shift political controls to Iraqi leaders. But those efforts turned out to be frustratingly slow. 
 While much of the country was chaotic and lawless, the American generals there were still not sure that they were facing a determined insurgency. The limited number of United States troops, however, posed problems in policing the porous borders, establishing a significant presence in the resistant Sunni Triangle and imposing order in the capital.
 ''My position is that we lost momentum and that the insurgency was not inevitable,'' said James A. (Spider) Marks, a retired Army major general, who served as the chief intelligence officer for the land war command. ''We had momentum going in and had Saddam's forces on the run.
 ''But we did not have enough troops,'' he continued. ''First, we did not have enough troops to conduct combat patrols in sufficient numbers to gain solid intelligence and paint a good picture of the enemy on the ground. Secondly, we needed more troops to act on the intelligence we generated. They took advantage of our limited numbers.''
 In Baghdad, some neighborhoods were particularly restive, but American forces were hampered in carrying out patrols. The Third Infantry Division, the first big unit to venture into the city, had about 17,000 troops. But it was a mechanized division, and only a fraction could carry out patrols on foot. The tank crews had to wait for body armor.
 North and west of Baghdad, in the volatile cities of the Sunni Triangle, resisters found refuge while they plotted new attacks.
 In Falluja, which would become a hotbed of the insurgency, no troops arrived until April 24, two weeks after American forces entered Baghdad. Soldiers from the 82d Airborne were the first ones there. But because of constant troop rotations and the limited number of forces, responsibility for the city repeatedly shifted. The chronic turnover made it difficult for the Americans to form ties to residents and gather useful intelligence. Today, the city is a no-go zone surrounded by United States marines. 
 Lt. Col. Joseph Apodaca, a Marine intelligence officer who is now retired, said there were early signs in the Shiite Muslim-dominated south that the paramilitary forces American troops faced might be the precursor of a broader insurgency. But chasing after potential rebels was not the Marines' assigned mission, and they did not have sufficient troops for this, he said. 
 ''The overall plan was to go get Saddam Hussein,'' Colonel Apodaca recalled. ''The assumption seemed to be that when people realized that he was gone, that would get the population on our side and facilitate the transition to reconstruction. We were not going to chase these guys when they ran to the smaller cities. We did not really have the force levels at that point to keep the insurgency down.''

Hoping Multinationally
 In Washington, however, White House and Pentagon officials thought that the most dangerous part was over. The goal of quickly enlisting Iraqi support appeared to be frustrated when the police abandoned their posts and Iraqi military units did not surrender en masse. But the administration thought that more of the burden could be shifted to multinational forces. 
 On April 15, 2003, Mr. Bush convened his National Security Council and discussed soliciting peacekeeping forces from other countries so the United States could begin to pull out troops. Even though there had been widespread opposition to the invasion, administration officials thought that some governments would put aside their objections once victory was at hand and the Iraqis began to form a new government. 
 Pentagon officials briefed the president on a plan to enlist four divisions: one made up of NATO troops; another from the Gulf Cooperative Council, an association of Persian Gulf states; one led by Poland; and another by Britain. The thinking was that the United States would leave no more than a division or two in Iraq. 
 The next day, General Franks flew to Baghdad and instructed his commanders to draw up plans to begin pulling out. At that palace meeting with his commanders, he noted that it was possible for the United States to wear out its welcome and keep too many troops in Iraq too long. A functioning interim Iraqi government was expected within 30 to 60 days, he said. He told his commanders to be prepared to take as much risk going out as they did coming in. 
 After that discussion, the general and his officers took part in a satellite video conference with Mr. Bush. The president asked about integrating foreign troops into the security force. Noting that Secretary of State Powell and Mr. Rumsfeld would be asking other nations for troops, the general said he planned to talk to officials in the United Arab Emirates about an Arab division. 
 General Franks's talk of being prepared to take risks alarmed General Garner, the civil administrator. Fearing that an early troop reduction threatened the mission of building a new Iraq, General Garner took his concerns to Lt. Gen. David McKiernan, the chief allied land commander. 
 ''There was no doubt we would win the war,'' General Garner recalled telling General McKiernan, ''but there can be doubt we will win the peace.''
 Soon after, the Pentagon began turning off the spigot of troops flowing to Iraq. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld had started to question whether the military still needed the Army's First Cavalry Division, a 17,500-member force that was slated to follow the lead invasion force into Iraq. He and General Franks discussed the issue repeatedly.
 ''Rumsfeld just ground Franks down,'' said Mr. White, the former Army secretary who was fired after policy disputes with Mr. Rumsfeld. ''If you grind away at the military guys long enough, they will finally say, 'Screw it, I'll do the best I can with what I have.' The nature of Rumsfeld is that you just get tired of arguing with him.''

A Canceled Deployment
 General Franks insisted that he had not faced pressure on the First Cavalry issue. ''It was Rumsfeld's idea,'' he said, referring to the cancellation of the deployment. ''Rumsfeld did not beat me into submission. Initially, I did not want to truncate the force flow, but as it looked like we were likely to get greater international participation, I concluded that it was O.K. to stop the flow.''
 General Franks also said he accepted the suggestion only after his field commanders agreed that the division was not needed. But a former staff officer to General McKiernan said the land war commander had wanted the unit to be deployed and was disappointed that he had to do without the additional division. The deployment of the division was canceled on April 21. 
 It was not long, though, before the optimistic talk of a speedy withdrawal of American forces was set aside. Neither NATO nor Persian Gulf nations wanted to put forces into Iraq. An American general was sent to New Delhi to talk to the Indians, but any hope of securing Indian troops quickly faded. Turkey later offered peacekeeping troops, but the Iraqis would not accept them. Only the Polish-led and British-led divisions became a reality.
 Soon after arriving in May, Mr. Bremer, who replaced General Garner as the chief occupation official sooner than expected, became concerned that American forces were stretched too thin. In late June, John Sawers, the senior British official in Baghdad, sent a confidential report to his government, which chronicled Mr. Bremer's concerns. 

'A Difficult Week in Iraq'
 ''It has been a difficult week in Iraq,'' Mr. Sawers wrote. ''The new threat is well-targeted sabotage of the infrastructure. An attack on the power grid last weekend had a series of knock-on effects which halved the power generation in Baghdad and many other parts of the country. ''
 ''The oil and gas is another target, with five successful attacks this week on pipelines,'' he continued. ''We are also seeing the first signs of intimidation of Iraqis working for the coalition.'' 
 ''Bremer's main concern is that we must keep in-country sufficient military capability to ensure a security blanket across the country,'' Mr. Sawers reported. ''He has twice said to President Bush that he is concerned that the drawdown of US/UK troops has gone too far and we cannot afford further reductions.''
 Mr. Bremer also questioned whether multinational forces ''will be sufficiently robust when push comes to shove,'' Mr. Sawers reported. 
 According to United States officials, Mr. Bremer raised the troop issue in a June 18 video conference with Mr. Bush. Mr. Bremer said the United States needed to be careful not to go too far in taking out troops. The president said the plan was now to rotate forces, not withdraw them, and agreed that Washington needed to maintain adequate force levels. 
 Still the American forces shrank, from a high of about 150,000 in July 2003 to some 108,000 in February 2004, before going up again when violence sharply increased early this year. Some of the troop declines were offset by the arrival of the Polish-led division in August 2003.
 General Franks said he had sought to assure Mr. Bremer that he would have enough troops in late May. While Mr. Bremer argued that he could not get Iraq's economy going until the American military made the country safer, General Franks asserted that the slow pace of reconstruction was undermining security. 
 ''Some people say there can be no economic building in a country until there is security,'' General Franks recalled, referring to Mr. Bremer and others in the Coalition Provisional Authority. ''When I would talk to Jerry Bremer, I would say, 'Listen Jerry, you want to talk to me about security in terms of forces. I want to talk to you about the C.P.A. and how many civilians -- wing tips, I call them -- you guys have out in these 18 provinces in order to take large sums of money, move them around in civil works projects, and get the angry young men off the streets so that fewer troops will be necessary.''
 This debate between Mr. Bremer, who declined to comment for this article, and the senior military officers in Iraq would become a continuing refrain. 

What Went Wrong?
 For some who served in Iraq, the summer of 2003 was a time of lost opportunities. Now there is a passionate debate about what went wrong. 
 ''Combat is a series of transitions, and the most critical part of an operation is the transition from combat to stability and support operations,'' one general said. ''When you don't have enough combat power, you end up giving the enemy an opportunity to go after your vulnerabilities.''
 General Franks, for his part, said the United States had sufficient combat forces in Iraq but did not initially have enough civil affairs, military police and other units that are intended to establish order after major combat is over. The issue, he said, was not the level of forces, but their composition. 
 While saying he was not criticizing Mr. Rumsfeld, General Franks suggested that this was partly a result of difficulties in getting all of the Central Command's force requests approved quickly at the Pentagon. He also said delays in obtaining funds from Congress for reconstruction efforts and the decision of many foreign governments not to send troops had contributed to the continuing turmoil in Iraq. 
 Ms. Rice puts the blame for the insurgency primarily on the fact that many Iraqi forces fled during the American push to Baghdad, only to fight another day. She also said the minority Sunni population, which had been in power under Mr. Hussein, felt unsettled, contributing to a ''permissive environment.''
 ''Any big historical change is going to be turbulent,'' she said. ''There was a lot of planning based on the assumptions, based on the intelligence. It is also the case that when the plan meets reality, it's what it didn't think of that really becomes the problem. So the real question is, can you adjust and make the changes necessary?'' 
 General Garner said the administration's mistakes had made it easier for the insurgency to take hold. 
 ''John Abizaid was the only one who really had his head in the postwar game,'' General Garner said, referring to the general who served as General Franks's deputy and eventually his successor. ''The Bush administration did not. Condi Rice did not. Doug Feith didn't. You could go brief them, but you never saw any initiative come of them. You just kind of got a north and south nod. And so it ends with so many tragic things.'' 

'Catastrophic Success'
 Michael R. Gordon, the chief military correspondent of The Times, covered the war in Iraq and its aftermath. He reported from the allied land forces command and from several United States Army divisions. Since then, he has been reporting on the conflict for a book to be published in 2005 by Pantheon Books, a unit of the Knopf Publishing Group. Articles in this series on American preparations for the war and its aftermath draw on dozens of interviews with current and former military officers and occupation officials as well as officials at the Pentagon and the White House. They also draw on government documents. Christopher Mann, Jeremiah Cushman, Mike Alpern and Thomas Hommel served as researchers for this report.
 Video of Michael R. Gordon and some additional photographs: nytimes.com/international


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gen. Tommy R. Franks met with his commanders in a former palace of Saddam Hussein on his first war visit to Baghdad on April 16, 2003, eight days after his forces had pushed into the Iraqi capital. (Photo by Karen Ballard/Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10)
An American soldier warned angry Iraqis to disperse after an oil station exploded in Baghdad on May 1, 2003. Celebratory firing after electricity was restored to their neighborhood had struck the station. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
An oil pipeline fire near Hit in June 2003. Iraq's oil infrastructure was a rebel target. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A11)Chart: ''U.S. Troops in Iraq''The United States has maintained a large contingent of troops in Iraq long after it had initially hoped, as fighting with insurgents has continued. The monthly casualty rate is higher now than it was a year ago.APRIL 8 -- The fall of Baghdad.APRIL 16 -- Gen. Tommy R. Franks arrives in Baghdad with the mission of telling the troops to be prepared to start leaving within 60 days.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHApril: 391U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHMay: 62U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHJune: 165JULY 3 -- Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, the commander of allied ground forces in Iraq, acknowledges that ''we're still at war.''U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHJuly: 253AUGUST -- Non-U.S. allied troop levels increase to more than 20,000.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHAugust: 195SEPTEMBER -- Initital goal for having U.S. forces reduced to a little more than a division, or about 30,000 troops.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHSept: 265U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHOct: 446U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHNov: 408U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHDec: 286U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHJan 2004: 226U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHFeb: 158U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHMarch: 352APRIL -- Uprising by insurgents makes April the deadliest month, with 126 soldiers killed and more than 1,200 wounded by hostile action.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHApril: 1,329MAY -- Nicholas Berg, a civilian working in Iraq, kidnapped and beheaded, one a series of kidnappings.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHMay: 816JUNE 28 -- American authorities turn formal sovereignty over to Iraq's new leaders.U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHJune:U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHJuly: 589U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHAugust: 932U.S. SOLDIERS KILLED OR WOUNDED IN ACTION, BY MONTHSept: 581Graph tracks number of U.S. soldiers on the ground in Iraq, by month since April 2003.(Sources by U.S. Central Command
 Defense Department)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); HELICOPTERS (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICS (67%) Surveys and Series; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Shortages; Politics and Government; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Intelligence Services

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); RICK PERRY (51%) Michael R Gordon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



437 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Into the Final Two Weeks: Battle Lines Are Drawn

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Thank you for synthesizing all that has gone wrong under the administration of George W. Bush. 
 ''We look back on the past four years with hearts nearly breaking'' expresses what I have been feeling for many months. Not since Franklin D. Roosevelt have we seen such a drastic change in our government and way of life. Yet in 1933, Roosevelt at least struggled to find answers to the serious economic crisis that this country faced. He also gave Americans a sense of optimism about the future and warned, ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.'' 
 Today, the Bush administration has created a disastrous situation on nearly every front -- political, diplomatic, social and economic -- and is doing everything possible to instill fear in our hearts and minds.

Sally G. McMillen
Davidson, N.C., Oct. 17, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); POLITICS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Sally G McMillen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



438 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: If Past Is Prologue, Brokers Face Turmoil

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
If Eliot Spitzer's history is any guide, the insurance industry's troubles are just beginning.
 Mr. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, has sued Marsh & McLennan, the world's largest insurance broker, accusing Marsh of conniving with insurance companies to cheat its clients. Now Wall Street is wondering just how much the rest of the industry has to lose from Mr. Spitzer's investigation. 
 Besides Marsh, the most obvious target for Mr. Spitzer is AON, the second-largest insurance broker. Like Marsh, AON receives fees both from corporate clients buying expensive insurance policies and commissions from the insurers selling them, an arrangement that critics say can create a conflict of interest.
 Yesterday, David D. Brown IV, who is leading the state's investigation, said he believed that AON had not cooperated fully with the inquiry. ''Obviously we're going after them, obviously we're seeking information about them,'' he said.
 Two years ago, Mr. Spitzer forced investment banks to overhaul their research departments. Last year, he wrung settlements out of mutual fund companies that he contended had taken advantage of small investors.
 In both cases, he used public pressure and the threat of prosecution to buttress accusations that at first glance did not seem particularly shocking: Wall Street analysts do not always offer good advice; mutual funds treat big clients better than smaller ones. Along the way, Mr. Spitzer butted heads with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the federal agency that is supposed to regulate the markets.
 This time around, Mr. Spitzer appears to be starting from a much stronger position.
 He does not face a turf battle with the S.E.C. or any federal regulator, because the insurance industry is overseen by the states. And he has already found evidence that Marsh encouraged insurance companies to provide fake bids to its clients.
 Marsh's goal was to make its clients think they were getting a competitive deal when in fact Marsh had already chosen which insurance company would win their business, according to the lawsuit.
 In addition to the civil suit against Marsh, executives at American International Group and Ace, two large insurers, have entered guilty pleas to participating in the bid-rigging scheme.
 So far, Mr. Spitzer has not brought a similar complaint against AON. In a statement last week, AON said that it was cooperating with the inquiry and that it had not engaged in bid-rigging, ''to the best of our knowledge.'' 
 Gary Sullivan, a spokesman for AON, said yesterday that the company stood by that comment.
 But Mr. Brown said yesterday that AON's behavior had become a focus of the investigation. And in a note yesterday, Fitch Ratings, which covers the insurance industry, said that it saw no reason to believe that Marsh had behaved differently than other insurance brokers.
 AON's shares have fallen 23 percent since Mr. Spitzer sued Marsh on Thursday.
 ''At this point it is unclear whether these alleged collusive practices represent an isolated case or a systemic market problem,'' Fitch wrote. ''Fitch would not be surprised if they were systemic. Further, these matters create another public relations setback for the insurance industry.''
 Even if AON escapes civil or criminal charges that it took kickbacks or rigged bids, the company is almost certain to lose the commissions it now receives from insurance companies for helping to sell their policies. AON receives about $200 million in those commissions annually, Mr. Sullivan said. In comparison, Marsh received $845 million in fees last year.
 The commissions are an important source of profit for AON, according to a report last week from Fox-Pitt, Kelton, an investment bank that specializes in the financial industry. In the report, Fox-Pitt said that it expected that AON would receive $227 million in commissions in 2005 and generate 38 cents a share in after-tax profit from them, or 16 percent of its overall profit.
 But Mr. Brown said yesterday that Marsh's behavior proves that the commissions create an insoluble conflict of interest for the insurance industry, forcing brokers to choose between the interests of their clients and those of insurers. Like the fact that Wall Street analysts sometimes hyped stocks to win investment banking business, the commissions were an open secret within the insurance industry, but one that Mr. Spitzer appears unwilling to tolerate.
 ''If this is the time-honored way of doing business, it's deeply flawed,'' Mr. Brown said. ''It's really a problem.''
 Already, Ace has said it will no longer pay the commissions, and other big insurance companies will probably follow. So the company's profits may be much lower than analysts expect. Yesterday, Smith Barney cut its estimate for AON's 2005 profits by 25 cents a share, to $2.05. AON closed down 47 cents, at $21.27.
 In addition, as the brokerage industry found, Mr. Spitzer's investigations inevitably disrupt business and spur class-action lawsuits that are expensive to defend and to resolve. So even though AON is trading at only about 10 times next year's earnings, it may not be a bargain for investors. AON's shares have fallen 23 percent since Mr. Spitzer sued Marsh on Thursday.
 And even before Mr. Spitzer's investigation gained speed, AON was not well regarded on Wall Street. Of the 13 analysts who follow the company, only one rates its stock as a buy, while 10 rank it as a hold and two as a sell, according to Bloomberg News.
 Oddly, the company's average rating actually improved last week after the Marsh announcement, when Sandler O'Neill, an investment bank that specializes in financial companies, raised its rating on AON to hold from sell. But Nicholas Pirsos, a managing director at Sandler, said that investors should not read too much into the upgrade, which he said occurred mainly because AON's shares fell below his price target.
 ''It was in large part a mechanical thing,'' not a reflection of the company's fundamentals, Mr. Pirsos said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Under Scrutiny''Regulators are looking at the fees paid to some big brokers of commercial insurance.TOTAL BROKERAGE REVENUEIn billions, 2003Marsh & McLennan: $9.4Aon Corporation: 6.7Willis Group Holdings: 2.0Arthur J. Gallagher: 1.2Wells Fargo: 0.8(Sources by Business Insurance) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HISTORY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (87%); CARTELS (86%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ETHICS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%) Insurance; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Consumer Protection; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Labor

COMPANY: MARSH SA (92%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (91%); MHM (LSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Joseph B Treaster; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John (Comr) Garamendi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) California; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



439 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SURVEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: POLL SHOWS TIE; CONCERNS CITED ON BOTH RIVALS

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER; Fred Backus contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Two weeks before Election Day, voters hold a sharply critical view of President Bush's record in office, but they have strong reservations about Senator John Kerry, leaving the race in a tie, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
 Mr. Bush's job approval rating is at 44 percent, a dangerously low number for an incumbent president, and one of the lowest of his tenure. A majority of voters said that they disapproved of the way Mr. Bush had managed the economy and the war in Iraq, and -- echoing a refrain of Mr. Kerry's -- that his tax cuts had favored the wealthy. Voters said that Mr. Kerry would do a better job of preserving Social Security, creating jobs and ending the war in Iraq.
 But a majority of Americans continue to see Mr. Kerry as an untrustworthy politician who will say what he thinks people want to hear. More than half of respondents said they considered him liberal, reflecting a dominant line of attack by Mr. Bush this fall. 
 The poll found the two candidates each drawing 46 percent of all registered voters in a head-to-head race. Among likely voters in a two-way race, Mr. Bush has 47 percent, with 46 percent for Mr. Kerry. 
 The Times/CBS poll was conducted over the four days after Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry concluded the last of their three debates. Some other polls taken during that time have shown Mr. Bush in a slightly stronger position among what they described as likely voters. The variations reflect the difficulty of determining who is going to vote, particularly in a campaign in which both sides have invested so many resources in registering new voters.
 Whatever problems Mr. Bush might be experiencing as he comes to the end of his first term, his position continues to be bolstered by concern about terrorism. Sixty-eight percent of respondents said they had a lot or some confidence that Mr. Bush would make the right decisions to prevent another terrorist attack -- compared with 62 percent who said they felt that way about Mr. Kerry. 
 Mr. Bush, in a speech in New Jersey on Monday, assailed Mr. Kerry's credentials for fighting terrorism, and released a new television advertisement hitting the same theme. The poll findings were highly unusual in that many measures used by pollsters to determine the strength of an incumbent -- from job approval to the percentage of Americans who believe the country is heading in the wrong direction (59 percent) -- would normally signal trouble for an incumbent.
 In addition, voters seem to be listening to many of Mr. Kerry's arguments; 59 percent, for example, said they thought that Mr. Bush's policies favored corporate interests.
 Mr. Kerry is in better shape than he was when the debates began, when the Times/CBS News poll found him trailing Mr. Bush, 42 percent to 50 percent. But this poll and others suggest that he is having difficulty turning strong discontent with the state of the country into support for his candidacy.
 Mr. Bush's aides said that the poll findings demonstrated that Americans were not prepared to turn out Mr. Bush for a candidate about whom, they said, voters clearly had strong reservations.
 ''There is a distrust and a reluctance for the public to accept him as being president,'' Matthew Dowd, a senior Bush adviser, said. ''I don't think they like his policies. The public through the course of this campaign -- it's not like they haven't gotten to know him.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's aides said they were heartened by the poll findings, and said the discontent with Mr. Bush meant that undecided voters were on the verge of flocking to Mr. Kerry.
 ''I don't think voters have reservations anymore,'' said Joe Lockhart, a senior Kerry adviser. ''These voters are going to make up their own mind. The poll gives every indication that when they do make up their mind, they are going to Kerry.''
 The Times/CBS News poll also suggested an area of vulnerability for Republicans in Congress. Only 38 percent of the poll's respondents said they approved of the way Congress was doing its job; 46 percent of respondents said they planned to vote for the Democratic Congressional candidate, compared with 38 percent who said they would vote Republican.
 And as of now, voters have a warmer view of the Democratic Party than of the Republican Party: 52 percent said they had a favorable view of the Democrats, compared with 47 for Republicans.
 The Times/CBS News poll was taken nationwide of 1,048 Americans, including 931 registered voters. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for the entire sample and for registered voters.
 In a three-way race including Ralph Nader, Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have 45 percent each among registered voters, with Mr. Nader drawing 2 percent. Among likely voters, Mr. Bush has 47 percent to Mr. Kerry's 45 percent, with Mr. Nader drawing 2 percent.
 National figures on Mr. Nader are not particularly illuminating because his real impact, if any, will be in individual states where the race is very close.
 The race is also ideologically polarized; 56 percent say they consider Mr. Kerry to be a liberal, while 66 percent say they think that Mr. Bush is a conservative.
 Mr. Bush is now perceived less favorably than he was earlier this month, which is probably a reflection of the fact that he has fiercely attacked Mr. Kerry recently, erasing an advantage he had had over Mr. Kerry. Typically, candidates who go on the attack pay a price in seeing their own negative ratings rise.
 Mr. Bush is now viewed unfavorably by 45 percent of respondents, compared with 43 percent who view him favorably. Mr. Kerry is now viewed unfavorably by 44 percent of the respondents, compared with 39 percent who view him favorably.
 The poll underlined the extent to which Mr. Bush has succeeded in raising doubts about Mr. Kerry. In addition to the perception of Mr. Kerry as a liberal, 60 percent said that he told people what he thought they wanted to hear, rather than what he believed. By contrast, 59 percent said Mr. Bush said what he believed, one of the biggest differences Mr. Bush has sought to draw with his opponent.
 ''I don't trust Kerry a bit,'' said Robert Brorein, 74, a Republican who said he did not like Mr. Bush but could not bring himself to vote for Mr. Kerry. ''I don't trust the way he talks. He doesn't give straight answers. He comes across as being slick. He's good with words, but I just don't believe him.'' 
 The poll and follow-up interviews signaled the extent to which Mr. Bush's candidacy rested on his terrorism record, even though Mr. Kerry has improved his credentials on the issue.
 Mr. Bush's job approval rating of 44 percent is slightly higher than the 37 percent job approval rating his father had before losing in 1992 to Bill Clinton. Mr. Dowd said he was not concerned by the figure, disputing the finding and pointing to a poll by the Gallup Organization.
 ''If it were true, it would be a problem,'' he said. ''Gallup has our job approval at 51. They're the ones I pay attention to.''
 The Times/CBS News poll found indications that voters were listening to Democratic attacks against Mr. Bush, even if they had not embraced the candidate making them. Nearly half said that Mr. Bush's policies had increased the cost of the prescription drugs for the elderly, while 60 percent said that his policies had benefited the rich, compared with 8 percent who said they benefited the middle class. 
 In addition, nearly half said that Mr. Bush's policies were cutting the number of jobs in the United States. Sixty-five percent said that Mr. Kerry's policies favored ''ordinary Americans'' rather than large corporations; 59 percent said Mr. Bush's policies would protect corporations.
 One-quarter of respondents said that Mr. Bush's policies had resulted in their taxes going down, while 28 percent said that they had resulted in their taxes going up. And 61 percent said Social Security benefits would be available if Mr. Kerry won; 43 percent said that about Mr. Bush.
 On Iraq, Americans no longer see the war as Mr. Bush does. A majority now say the war is either a minor part of the war on terrorism or no part at all. Only 37 percent say the war in Iraq is a major part of the war on terrorism.
 In addition, Mr. Kerry has established himself as the candidate who would make health care more affordable, and as the candidate who better understands the needs and problems of average voters. 
 ''The economy is a disaster and I don't think George Bush even realizes it,'' said Sally Sullivan, 61, a retired legal secretary and an independent voter from New Hampshire. ''Middle class jobs are just flowing out of this country and the jobs that are being created are being created in the service industry for 15, 16, and 17 thousand dollars a year. I just think George Bush has lost touch with reality completely as far as the economy goes.''

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Thursday through Sunday with 1,048 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 931 said they were registered to vote.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike.
 Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education.
 Based on the 2000 presidential vote, residents of heavily Republican counties, heavily Democratic ones, and politically competitive counties were weighted to their proper share of the population.
 Some findings regarding voting are additionally weighted in terms of an overall ''probable electorate,'' which uses responses to questions dealing with voting history, attention to the campaign and likelihood of voting in 2004 as a measure of the probability of respondents' turning out in November.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller sub-groups the margin of sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: THE DECIDEDS -- Former President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, waited in line yesterday on the first day of early voting in Houston. In an echo of 2000, early voting in Florida brought long lines, trouble verifying registrations and a sense among black voters that they were being unfairly treated. Page A19. (Photo by Ron Heflin/Associated Press)Chart:A majority of respondents disapproved of the way the president has handled foreign policy, the war in Iraq and the economy.Do you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling:Graphs track percent of whom approve or disapprove with the way George W. Bush is handling the following since 2002:His job as president?Foreign policy?The campaign against terrorism?Situation with Iraq?The economy?Based on all respondentsVoters seem to be listening to many of Senator Kerry's arguments.The tax cuts enacted by the Bush administration have benefited the . . .Rich: 60%Middle Class: 8Poor: 2All equally: 24No opinion: 7The Bush administration did . . .. . . a good job thinking through what would happen as a result of war.: 29%. . . a poor job.: 64No opinion: 7The policies of the Bush administration are . . .. . . increasing the number of jobs in the U.S.: 23%. . . decreasing the number.: 49. . . not affecting the number.: 21No opinion: 7Based on all registered voters.Voters are split along lines of race and sex and by whether they live in an urban or rural setting.MenBUSH: 53%KERRY: 40NADER: 3WomenBUSH: 41KERRY: 49NADER: 1Suburban womenBUSH: 43KERRY: 47NADER: 1Have children under 18BUSH: 52KERRY: 40NADER: 218-29 yearsBUSH: 39KERRY: 53NADER: 330-44 yearsBUSH: 52KERRY: 39NADER: 345-64 yearsBUSH: 46KERRY: 44NADER: 265 and overBUSH: 46KERRY: 48NADER: 1RepublicansBUSH: 91KERRY: 4NADER: 2IndependentsBUSH: 40KERRY: 46NADER: 3DemocratsBUSH: 11KERRY: 84NADER: 1NortheastBUSH: 41KERRY: 49NADER: 2MidwestBUSH: 43KERRY: 45NADER: 4SouthBUSH: 55KERRY: 39NADER: 1WestBUSH: 47KERRY: 49NADER: 2Large cityBUSH: 23%KERRY: 69NADER: 0Small cityBUSH: 40KERRY: 53NADER: 2SuburbsBUSH: 50KERRY: 42NADER: 2RuralBUSH: 55KERRY: 35NADER: 3WhitesBUSH: 52KERRY: 40NADER: 2BlacksBUSH: 17KERRY: 76NADER: 1White CatholicsBUSH: 46KERRY: 44NADER: 3Under $15,000BUSH: 35KERRY: 48NADER: 7$15,000-$29,999BUSH: 39KERRY: 48NADER: 3$30,000-$49,999BUSH: 49KERRY: 45NADER: 1$50,000-$75,000BUSH: 51KERRY: 44NADER: 0Over $75,000BUSH: 52KERRY: 41NADER: 3TotalBUSH: 47KERRY: 45NADER: 2Based on likely voters.Based on nationwide surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. Latest results are based on telephone interviews conducted October 14-17 with 1,048 adults, of whom 931 are registered voters weighted to a probable electorate. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Social Security (US); Labor; Registration of Voters; Election Issues; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%) Adam Nagourney; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004



440 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Agrees to Inspection of Nuclear Site

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
In a step toward resolving a longstanding impasse with the United Nations nuclear monitoring agency, the Brazilian government has agreed to grant inspectors access to a plant Brazil has built to produce nuclear fuel for both domestic use and eventual sale abroad.
 Whether the limited access allowed to the three inspectors, who arrived here this week, will be enough to satisfy the agency, the International Atomic Energy Agency, is not yet clear. Although the I.A.E.A. has withheld any public judgment, Brazilian officials are already talking of a breakthrough.
 ''What has changed now is the attitude of trying to seek a solution that at the same time guarantees the preservation of our technology and permits the agency to be certain that there is no diversion of material within the factory,'' Odair Goncalves, president of Brazil's national nuclear commission, said at a news conference here on Monday. 
 The focal point of the dispute is a uranium enrichment plant in Resende, about 100 miles northwest of here, that is partly controlled by the Brazilian Navy. In the past, Brazil has balked at the atomic energy agency's insistence on unfettered access to the factory, insisting that Brazil's track record as a nonaggressive regional power entitles it to ''dignified and differentiated'' treatment, in the form of a relaxation of international rules.
 The agency has resisted that demand, which nuclear experts said would set a dangerous precedent that countries like Iran and North Korea would seek to exploit. With a crucial meeting about Iran's nuclear program scheduled for next month, and with an international review of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty scheduled for early 2005, the agency does not want to give any impression of weakness or wavering, diplomats and nuclear experts said.
 According to scientists, diplomats and other government officials, the tentative compromise reached by Brazil and the atomic agency would allow the international inspectors to see the pipes and valves of the machinery at the plant, which is scheduled to open in a few months. But Brazil would also be able to claim victory, if inspectors sign off on the arrangement after preliminary visits this week, by continuing to keep hidden parts of the centrifuge system that it claims are based on an original and proprietary technology.
 Nuclear experts dismiss the notion that Brazil is trying to resume its nuclear weapons program, which it abandoned almost two decades ago. But there are other concerns, mostly focusing on the country's ambition to export uranium. Some nuclear experts have described the idea as not economically viable given the large stocks already on the market, and they wonder why Brazil does not just continue to go abroad to buy what it needs.
 ''They are so far behind, I can't see how they can compete with Urenco,'' said David Albright, a physicist and former nuclear inspector who is president of the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security, referring to a European consortium that produces enriched uranium. ''The worry in the long run is that they would be tempted to sell on the margins to some bad players, countries that no one wants to deal with, like Burma or Vietnam.''
 Brazilian officials have said that because the country has the world's fifth-largest known reserves of uranium, enrichment is a matter of national security. The country suffered an energy crisis early in the decade, they note, and plans to build a third nuclear power plant to supplement two already in operation near here.
 ''This needs to be seen in a long-term, rather than immediate, perspective,'' said Roberto Abdenur, the Brazilian Ambassador to the United States and Brazil's former ambassador to the I.A.E.A. ''Nuclear energy is staging a comeback, and with the demand for lightly-enriched uranium tending to grow in coming years, it is economically and strategically important to Brazil not to lose sight of this market and to guarantee its own supply of nuclear energy.''
 During a visit here two weeks ago, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell discussed the nuclear impasse with Brazilian officials. In public remarks, he dismissed the notion that Brazil is seeking to develop atomic weapons but also urged the government here to be more cooperative with international inspection efforts.
 ''We have no concerns about Brazil moving in a direction of anything but peaceful nuclear power, of course, and in creating their own fuel for their power plants,'' he said. ''There's no proliferation concern on our part, but we think they should work with the I.A.E.A. to satisfy the I.A.E.A.'s need for oversight.''
 But independent nuclear experts have expressed concern about what they describe as Brazil's history of deceit and obfuscation in the strategic arms field, including secret dealings with rogue states like Iraq and Libya. That, they argue, explains some of the skepticism among scientists and diplomats that has greeted Brazil's claims of purely innocent, energy-related intentions.
 ''Under the Space for Peace program, the United States shared re-entry vehicle technology, which is also useful for warheads, with Brazil back in the 1980's,'' recalled Henry D. Sokolski, executive director of the Washington-based Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and a former Defense Department official specializing in nuclear proliferation issues. ''That technology ended up in Libya, because Brazil gave it to them. There's no question about it.''
 When asked the source of his information, Mr. Sokolski, a former member of the Central Intelligence Agency's Senior Advisory Panel, responded, ''Let's not get into that.'' He also suggested that the basic technology of the Brazilian centrifuges may have been obtained from Pakistan and not fully developed here.
 ''Why do you think the I.A.E.A. wants to see everything?'' Mr. Sokolski asked.
 In 1981, Brazil, then ruled by a right-wing military dictatorship, signed a nuclear cooperation agreement with Iraq that resulted in the shipping of several tons of uranium to Baghdad. Later, the former head of Brazil's clandestine nuclear weapons program worked in Iraq as a consultant there until American pressure forced his recall.
 Mr. Abdenur argued that such concerns are no longer relevant. Since belatedly adhering to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in 1997, he said, Brazil has been a model international citizen.
 ''What went before is another chapter,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazil has granted the United Nations nuclear monitoring agency access to a plant in Resende, about 100 miles from Rio de Janeiro. Brazil has long balked at the agency's insistence on unfettered access to the plant. (Photo by Silvia Izquierdo/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (78%); CENTRIFUGES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Weapons; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Uranium; Atomic Energy; Electric Light and Power; Arms Sales Abroad

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: Larry Rohter; Odair Goncalves; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%) BRAZIL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Brazil; Resende (Brazil)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



441 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Public University Tuition Is Up Sharply for 2004
Tuition at public universities rose an average of 10.5 percent this year, the second largest increase in more than a decade, the College Board's annual survey found. Private universities and community colleges also increased tuition, by 6 percent and 9 percent, in a year when inflation has been about 2.5 percent. PAGE A16

Social Security Benefits Rise
Social Security benefits for more than 47 million Americans will increase 2.7 percent next year. But higher Medicare premiums will take nearly half of the increase for a typical beneficiary. PAGE A25

Domingo on Met Opera List
The Metropolitan Opera's list of candidates for general manager, one of the country's foremost arts jobs, includes the tenor Placido Domingo Met officials said. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

A Shift in Housing Policy
New York City officials said that homeless families in emergency city shelters would no longer be allowed to apply for federal rent vouchers or public housing. PAGE B1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); TUITION FEES (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (88%); OPERA (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (85%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (85%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (85%); PUBLIC HOUSING (85%); MEDICARE (69%); CITIES (68%); FAMILY (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (54%); HOMELESSNESS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



442 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Price Rise Quickens, Giving Fed a Basis to Raise Rates

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Consumer prices picked up momentum in September, with the most difficulty for people paying for medical care, education and gasoline, the Labor Department reported Tuesday.
 Analysts said that although inflation is not a danger to the economy now, the acceleration justifies an interest rate increase next month by the Federal Reserve. 
They expect the Fed to lift short-term interest rates for a fourth time this year at its meeting on Nov. 10. 
 The government's most closely watched inflation measure, the Consumer Price Index, increased 0.2 percent in September, up from a 0.1 percent rise in August. Excluding energy and food prices, which can vary widely, so-called core prices rose 0.3 percent. That compared with a 0.1 percent increase in August.
 The rise in core retail prices mostly reflected a sharp increase in lodging costs, not a broad acceleration in the prices of many goods and services, economists noted. Given that, the increase in core prices rings no alarm bells, analysts said. The 0.3 percent rise surpassed the 0.2 percent some economists were forecasting. Over all, the 0.2 percent price increase matched expectations.
 Among areas with notable price increases, medical care rose 0.3 percent last month, education was up 0.6 percent and lodging, 2.9 percent.
 The recent run-up in crude oil prices notwithstanding, energy prices in September dropped 0.4 percent, after a 0.3 percent decline in August. Natural gas also fell, and electricity prices were flat. Economists expect a sizable increase in energy prices when the report for October is released next month.
 Separately, the Social Security Administration said Tuesday that recipients of benefits would receive a 2.7 percent cost-of-living increase in their checks starting in January.
 The Commerce Department reported that housing construction fell 6 percent in September. Housing permits rose 1.8 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.SeptemberStarts -- 1.898Permits -- 2.005Graph tracks permits and starts since April 2003. (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (93%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); COST OF LIVING (79%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); BUILDING PERMITS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Price Index; Social Security (US); Housing; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%) Labor Department (NYS); Social Security Administration; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



443 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Haunted by His Father's Murder at the Hands of a Racist

BYLINE: By CAROL POGASH

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Amelia Ray was 22 when she sat in a darkened theater, watching her father, Carl Ray, perform his autobiographical one-man show, ''A Killing in Choctaw.'' Only then did she discover that he had witnessed the murder of his father decades before, killed because Carl had refused to say ''sir'' to a white man. 
 After a scene in which Mr. Ray begs his dead father to rise and see him go to college, a friend who was at the theater that night in 1999 leaned over and whispered: ''Did you know about this?'' Ms. Ray shook her head no. She didn't even think it was odd, she explained recently in an interview. ''I guess I'd grown accustomed to the silence.'' 
 At first it was only on stage that Mr. Ray, now 60, could give voice to his experience. Recently that story has been made into a documentary by Chike C. Nwoffiah, a filmmaker and executive director of the Oriki Theater, a nonprofit community theater here in Silicon Valley. Called ''A Killing in Choctaw: The Power of Forgiveness,'' after the Alabama county where Mr. Ray was born, the film had its premiere last month at the Montgomery Theater here. Explaining why he was moved to make the documentary, Mr. Nwoffiah said, ''It's an important enough story that it needs to get out there.'' 
 That story began in Butler, Ala., on Sept. 6, 1962, when Carl was 18 and preparing to leave for the Tuskegee Institute to major in engineering. With his bags packed, he and a cousin shot off firecrackers near his house. The echoing booms attracted their neighbor, Bill Carlisle, who pulled up in his pickup and blasted the boys with angry questions. After Carl replied with a series of yeses and nos, Mr. Carlisle asked if Carl didn't know that he should say ''yes, sir'' and ''no, sir'' to a white man. 
 ''No,'' Carl said.
 Mr. Carlisle knocked him to the ground and pulled out a knife. ''I was looking straight in his eyes,'' Mr. Ray says in the film, remembering the moment. ''Just before he plunged the knife in my throat, he stopped.'' Mr. Carlisle rose, Mr. Ray recalled, returned to his truck and drove away.
 Carl went home, and with his father, George, waited. ''I knew Bill was coming. My daddy knew Bill was coming,'' Mr. Ray says in the documentary. 
 George Ray moved his family next door to a relative's house, and then pushed the television set onto the porch. Father and son sat outside watching ''Douglas Edwards With the News'' while they waited. 
 Carl Ray says he remembers the crunch of the truck tires as Mr. Carlisle arrived. After angry words and a scuffle, Mr. Carlisle cocked his .45 automatic.
 In a segment of his show, which is part of the documentary, Carl Ray slowly re-enacts the events: ''Each time the bullet hit, Daddy's body would flinch. The dust particles from his clothes began to float up and mix with the smoke from the gun barrel. Bill continued to fire. Pop! Pop! Pop! Pop! Daddy falls in slow motion. He takes his last breath.'' 
 ''When I saw his body at the church,'' Mr. Ray says in the film, ''reality set in. When they took him outside and put him in the ground, I began a nightmare that lasted a lifetime.'' 
 For the documentary Mr. Ray returned to the Alabama courthouse where Mr. Carlisle was tried. 
 ''It was like a one-day circus come to town,'' Mr. Ray recalls as he sits on the witness stand retelling what happened some four decades earlier. Joe Thompson, Mr. Carlisle's defense attorney, accused Carl Ray of murdering his father. Mr. Ray impersonates Mr. Thompson: ''You killed your daddy because you don't know how to talk to white people! If you knew how to talk to white people he would still be alive. Isn't that so?'' 
 ''No, sir,'' Mr. Ray said. 
 ''Damn uppity negra,'' Mr. Thompson said to the judge and jury. 
 At intervals Mr. Nwoffiah was so overcome that the camera trembles. ''As a director,'' he said in an interview, ''you wonder at what point do you stop? Mr. Ray always said: 'Keep going. We have to get through this.''' 
 Mr. Ray recalled blacks sitting upstairs in the courthouse crying as if the trial were a funeral, while downstairs whites laughed. 
 The jury found Mr. Carlisle guilty of first-degree manslaughter and sentenced him to nine years in prison. Although the state has no record of Mr. Carlisle's having served any time, Mr. Ray's oldest brother, Lindsey, and Mike Dale, a former Butler resident who knew the Carlisle family, said he had heard that Mr. Carlisle served less than a year.
 Mr. Ray said that he has always felt responsible for his father's death, and worried that his siblings blamed him as well. He suffered from severe depression and nightmares. For years he told no one what had happened. He felt ''a silent scream,'' he said.
 His wife, Brenda Hampton-Ray, learned of her husband's history 10 years ago, when she came across an old clipping about the killing.
 ''He had this facade for so many years,'' Ms. Hampton-Ray says in the documentary. ''We really didn't know who the real husband and real father was.'' 
 Despite his troubles, Mr. Ray graduated from Tuskegee, then began working as an engineer at the Lockheed Corporation in California. Then this haunted man, who as a child had used humor to ward off bullies, decided to become a comedian. 
 The documentary blends portions of his show with Mr. Ray's commentary and interviews with others. At one point a split screen shows a thinner Mr. Ray darting onstage, wowing a Southern California crowd with his comedy. On the other half of the screen, Mr. Ray's old, sad eyes barely move: ''You walk back off that stage,'' he says, ''you walk back into that prison where all the demons are waiting for you.'' 
 Mr. Ray began finding his voice in 1998 when an exhibition of civil rights photos from the Smithsonian Institution were displayed at the San Jose Museum of Art, and an official there who knew Mr. Ray was a comedian from Alabama asked him to speak about the civil rights era there. 
 ''She didn't really know what she was getting,'' Mr. Ray said recently. Among those who listened was Tommy J. Fulcher Jr., president of Economic and Social Opportunities Inc., a nonprofit organization in the area. Mr. Fulcher told Mr. Ray that his story was more moving than all the famous photos from the civil rights exhibition. He made Mr. Ray an offer: Mr. Fulcher would back a one-man play written and acted by Mr. Ray. A year later, Mr. Ray was telling his story onstage. 
 Since then Mr. Ray has traveled the country, performing his play before college audiences and in community theaters. Wanting to make a documentary, he searched for the right filmmaker. He contacted Mr. Nwoffiah after seeing his 2000 documentary about a black hospital, ''A Jewel in History.'' With no financing, Mr. Ray raised $150,000 himself. Amelia, one of his five children, wrote the accompanying music and designed the Web site, www.carlraye.com. Mr. Nwoffiah said he plans to submit ''A Killing in Choctaw'' to film festivals and show it at community theaters and colleges. No New York showings have been scheduled yet. 
 Theaters in Choctaw County probably won't be too eager to show it though, said Tommy Campbell, the editor and publisher of The Choctaw Sun, who knows both the Carlisle and Ray families. ''This is not the South of the 1960's anymore,'' he said. Residents ''would just like to let it alone,'' he said.
 Mr. Ray wanted to expose what happened 42 years ago, but he was not quite ready to watch the documentary. During the premiere he stood silently in the back of the theater, seeing snippets of his life, before fleeing outside. 


CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in The Arts yesterday with the continuation of an article about the film ''A Killing in Choctaw,'' based on the autobiographical show by Carl Ray, misspelled the given name of his daughter. She is Amelia Ray, not Ameila.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Ray in an Alabama courtroom in ''A Killing in Choctaw.'' (Photo by Chike C. Nwoffiah)(pg. E1)
 Carl Ray, center, with his daughter Ameila Ray and the filmmaker Chike C. Nwoffiah at the Montgomery Theater in San Jose, Calif. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); INTERVIEWS (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); THEATER (58%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Theater; Motion Pictures; Blacks; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Chike C Nwoffiah; Carol Pogash; Bill Carlisle; carl ray

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) ALABAMA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



444 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: In Koreas, High Hopes for an Industrial Marriage

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: DORASAN, South Korea 

 BODY:
Five miles up a highway from this new break in the barbed wire wall across Korea, visitors may glimpse the peninsula's economic future: the building shells for the first industrial park where North Koreans are to work in South Korean factories.
 The potency of this marriage between North Korea's rock-bottom wages and South Korea's capital and technology has so excited Seoul that on Oct. 20 almost a quarter of South Korea's National Assembly members are to travel by bus to Kaesong, North Korea, to inaugurate the Kaesong Industrial Park. 
 From an initial kernel of 13 South Korean companies -- notably garment manufacturers, a shoemaker and a watchmaker -- the plan is for Kaesong to expand over the next 20 years until it spreads over 25 square miles. About 130 South Korean companies are already on a waiting list to open factories there, and it is expected eventually to draw billions of dollars in investments and employ 730,000 North Koreans and 100,000 South Koreans in more than 1,000 South Korean companies. 
 Ultimately, the park would add $600 million a year to North Korean coffers through wages and corporate taxes, the Bank of Korea, South Korea's central bank, estimated last summer. 
 The Koreas are keeping a low profile about their joint project, to the extent of closing the inauguration to foreign reporters. With nuclear weapons talks suspended, the Koreas seem to fear that the United States could try to sabotage the park by boycotting its products or blocking the transfer of computers needed to run factories in North Korea.
 ''I want to stress that the U.S. fully supports the efforts made by South Korea on Kaesong,'' Christopher R. Hill, United States ambassador to South Korea, told reporters in Seoul on Oct. 7. ''Export control issues are not those that will determine the success or no-success of Kaesong.''
 Economic strategists trying to pull South Korea out of its economic doldrums envision Kaesong, which has benefited from about $322 million in infrastructure spending by the South Korean government, as playing a crucial role in igniting a new phase of South Korean growth.
 ''Future plans call for Seoul serving as a financial hub, Inchon as logistics hub and Kaesong as industrial, manufacturing hub,'' said Chung In Moon, a commissioner for the Northeast Asia Initiative Commission, a government body backing the Kaesong project. Noting in an interview that Kaesong is 90 minutes by highway from Inchon, home of South Korea's busiest airport and its second-busiest seaport after Busan, he added: ''Organically and functionally, Kaesong is to be linked to Seoul and Inchon. The success of Kaesong will have a real impact on the success of the South Korea economy.''
 Recently, South Korea's growth has lost steam. In September, company start-ups fell to 2,103, the lowest level in five years. Also in September, South Korea's quarterly exports grew at an annual rate of 3.1 percent, compared with an annual rate of 60.4 percent in February.
 A new dynamism could come if South Korea succeeds in developing North Korea as a huge back office. Companies in the park are to pay a minimum wage of $57.50 a month, far less than the $100 to $200 typical in China and $449 in South Korea. Corporate taxes in Kaesong will range from 10 percent to 14 percent, compared with 15 percent in China and 23 percent to 28 percent in South Korea. 
 ''The biggest advantage is the cheap labor,'' Lee Soo Young, a director at the Kaesong Industrial Complex Project, said at the park's promotion office, which opened in Seoul on Oct. 5. The Kaesong development is promoted by its two owners: the Hyundai Asan Corporation, a private company, and the Korea Land Corporation, a government company. 
 At the Romanson Company, South Korea's largest watch manufacturer, Chang Ho Sun, an executive, explained why his company was one of the pioneers to enter Kaesong, planning to employ 800 North Koreans eventually. Skilled watchmakers earn $26,000 a year in South Korea, but Mr. Chang calculated that his company would pay North Koreans 4 to 5 percent of that amount.
 ''We speak the same language,'' he said citing another advantage to working in North Korea. ''We also expect North Koreans to have the same attitudes toward work.''
 Im Hwang Yong, director of SJ Tech, a plastic products company that hopes to start production in Kaesong by the end of this year, said: ''The only thing we are concerned about is the ideological differences between North Koreans and South Koreans. There isn't a union in North Korea, but the differences in thinking may cause work stoppages.''
 The workers in Kaesong will be paid $50, most of their monthly wage, in dollars, a big draw to most. But communist thinking and North-South rivalry could also create difficulties, some have speculated.
 With Kaesong and other inter-Korean projects, South Korea has another not-so-hidden agenda: to develop the North in hopes of lowering the eventual bill for reunification.
 ''If North Korea pursues the development of its economy with funds secured from leasing the property, it may narrow the gap between the North and South Korean economies and will ultimately reduce reunification costs,'' South Korea's central bank said in its report last summer.
 [On Monday, President Bush signed into law the North Korean Human Rights Act, which is aimed at promoting democratic and open-market changes in North Korea. The same day, South Korea's prime minister, Lee Hae Chan, said to reporters in Austria, ''In no way do we want a collapse of North Korea.'' He said South Korea had learned from the 1989 collapse of East Germany that ''it is not desirable to have a collapse of North Korea.'']
 China is also pushing North Korea to move in the direction of an open-market economy. In one sign of an economic recovery, North Korea's officially registered trade with China jumped by 38 percent last year to hit $1 billion, mostly in goods from China.
 But world opposition to North Korea's nuclear weapons makes investing in North Korea a risky business, many South Korean business leaders say.
 In a Federation of Korean Industries survey last summer, 68 percent of the 404 major companies surveyed said the primary obstacle to investing in the North was the international standoff over North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
 In the survey, 76 percent predicted that Kaesong would be successful, and the same percentage said the industrial park would be more competitive than comparable sites in China. But 54 percent said they had little interest in setting up there, and 24 percent said they had no interest.
 Smaller companies, presumably bigger risk takers, were most interested in the park, according to the private business federation. The initial 13 companies have invested about $50 million in the project, Mr. Lee said at the promotion office in Seoul. 
 To cut risks for investors, South Korea's government-run Export-Import Bank announced in September that it would reimburse South Korean companies in Kaesong for 90 percent of losses incurred for such causes as war, confiscation of wealth or blockage of remittances.
 Separately, to encourage South Korea to trade with North Korea, last summer the Inter-Korean Cooperation Fund in Seoul started to cover 50 percent of losses incurred by the nearly 500 South Korean businesses that trade with the North. The loss limit is $437,000 and the losses must be caused by circumstances beyond the southern companies' control.
 By investing $130 million in a four-lane highway, new railroad and new customs and immigration station here, South Korea's government is steadily moving to lower the hurdles of dealing with the North.
 In late September, a shuttle bus service began between Seoul and Kaesong. The bus departs every weekday morning and returns every weekday afternoon, traveling 43 miles in one hour. The round-trip ticket costs $17. Trucks and buses now regularly cross the demilitarized zone here, and South Korea plans to send a test freight and passenger train through here to Kaesong at the end of October.
 In November, Woori Bank, a major South Korean bank, plans to set up a branch inside the Kaesong Industrial Park to offer such services as currency exchange, trade financing and bank transfers.
 If the first South Korean investments go well at Kaesong, North Korean authorities have said they may allow other foreign countries to make similar, wholly owned investments there.
 Several European companies, notably from Germany, have shown interest in setting up manufacturing operations in the zone. Earlier this year, the European Union Chamber of Commerce in Korea opened an office in Pyongyang, complementing its office in Seoul. The first foreign law firm in North Korea, Hay, Kalb & Associates, set up by a British lawyer, opened its office in August on Kim Il Sung Square in Pyongyang, catering to foreign investors.
 For half a century, Kaesong has been remembered as the site of the 1953 Korean War armistice negotiations. Now, Kaesong is starting to symbolize the peninsula's new economic thaw. 
 ''We feel we are summoned to be involved for the future of our country,'' said Mr. Im, the plastics company director, who also is spokesman for the 13 South Korean companies initially approved for Kaesong. ''It will be a mission for us to educate capitalism to North Koreans, step by step.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A new highway will connect South Korea to a factory complex in the border town of Kaesong, North Korea. (Pool photo via Getty Images)Map of North and South Korea highlighting Dorasan: An industrial park is rising in Kaesong, across the demilitarized zone from Dorasan, South Korea. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); TRENDS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); APPAREL MFG (72%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Factories and Industrial Plants; Kaesong Industrial Park (North Korea); Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%) North Korea; North Korea ; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



445 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Four Unhappy Receivers Change Teams at Deadline

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
For the first time in five years, there were deals at the N.F.L. trading deadline, as four players, all receivers, changed teams yesterday.
 Besides Jerry Rice leaving Oakland for Seattle, Keenan McCardell, the league's last holdout player, went from Tampa Bay to San Diego, and Dallas sent Antonio Bryant to Cleveland for Quincy Morgan.
 The last time there were trades at the deadline was in 1999, when Miami sent running back Abdul-Karim al-Jabbar to Cleveland and Tampa Bay traded defensive end Regan Upshaw to Jacksonville, in both cases for draft picks. 
 McCardell wanted out of Tampa Bay, and the Buccaneers obliged by trading him for two picks in next year's draft.
 ''Keenan obviously made a decision a long time ago that he was not going to be happy with the economics of his contract,'' Buccaneers General Manager Bruce Allen said. ''I don't think we need that coming back to the locker room, whenever he was going to come back.''
 McCardell stayed away from training camp and vowed to sit out the season if the Buccaneers did not give him a substantial raise over the $2.5 million he was scheduled to earn under a contract that would have also paid him $2.75 million in 2005.
 McCardell, 34, accumulated $185,000 in fines during training camp and lost $882,360 in salary for missing the first six games of the regular season. In all, his holdout lasted 82 days.
 The trade is timely for San Diego, too. The Chargers' leading wide receiver, Reche Caldwell, hurt his right knee in a 21-20 loss in Atlanta on Sunday and is out for the season, although General Manager A.J. Smith said the acquisition of McCardell had nothing to do with the injury. Caldwell had 18 catches for 310 yards -- an average of 17.2 yards -- and 3 scores. 
 Smith said the Chargers did not renegotiate McCardell's contract.
 ''That's already been resolved, that he'll honor the contract,'' Smith said. ''The agent has said that to just about everybody in the last week or so. He just wants to move on and play football.''
 In the Cowboys-Browns deal, Bryant for Morgan, both players are also hoping for fresh starts in new places. Bryant had remained with Dallas even after throwing a sweaty jersey into Coach Bill Parcells's face during a workout in June. Morgan is from the Dallas area.
 ''It's a change of scenery for Antonio and something we think can motivate Quincy to be at home and play near his family,'' the Cowboys' owner, Jerry Jones, said. ''This is just a chance where we think Quincy is a better fit for us than Antonio was for the Cowboys.''
 Bryant caught 44 passes for 733 yards and 6 touchdowns while starting 15 games as a rookie in 2002, before Parcells arrived. He started just five times last season, with 39 catches for 559 yards and 2 touchdowns, and has been upset with Parcells over the amount of time he received behind Keyshawn Johnson and Terry Glenn, who had played for Parcells before reuniting with him.
 Bryant was removed by security from the practice in June and did not rejoin the team until training camp. He has 16 catches for 266 yards this season.
 Morgan, who would have been a free agent, agreed to a contract extension through 2005 before the trade was completed. He caught three touchdown passes this season from Jeff Garcia but was disappointed with his reduced role.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) Football; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (91%)

PERSON: Jerry Rice; Keenan Mccardell; Antonio Bryant; Quincy Morgan

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



446 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Top Colleges, Rated by Those Who Chose Them

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
For years, editors and educators have turned out lists grading the nation's coolest, hottest, hardest-partying, and of course, academically best colleges and universities. 
 But while those surveys captured what administrators, faculty members, students, and other experts thought, no one ranked colleges based entirely on where America's best and brightest ultimately decided to go. 
 Now, a group of economists has compiled a new college ratings system that does just that. 
 In a study submitted last week to the National Bureau of Economic Research, Harvard and Yale not unexpectedly take the top two spots. But the authors contend that their method of rating colleges and universities based on the real-life decisions of admitted students is more accurate and more relevant than rankings published each fall in college admissions guidebooks and magazines, like U.S. News and World Report. 
 ''What you are getting in all these other systems is sort of an expert analysis of polling data,'' said Andrew Metrick, one of the study's four authors and a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''This provides a market-based view.''
 Instead of measuring statistics like admissions rates or having college administrators rate their peers, the researchers analyzed the college choices of more than 3,200 high-achieving high school seniors from the class of 2000. By asking those students where they enrolled when they were accepted by several different colleges, the economists compiled a won-loss record for each college as if it was a competitor in a chess tournament. The researchers then generated a preference ranking for more than 100 colleges, employing the same scoring system used for chess masters. 
 College admission deans say they have long used similar preference ratings systems in their own backyards, internally tracking the students who matriculate and those who turn them down, to help them refine their marketing messages and define their competition. But the researchers' ranking may be the first study to statistically gauge the strength of a college's appeal in a way most students, parents and alumni can understand. 
 Harvard and Yale came out one and two, and renowned research institutions like Stanford, Cal Tech, M.I.T. and Princeton rounded out the Top 6. But if this was predictable, perhaps the rankings of colleges like Emory (61) or New York University (39) were a bit lower than one might expect. 
 ''Once you get outside the Top 10, people tend to have only a vague sense of how schools are ranked in terms of student preference,'' said Caroline Hoxby, a Harvard economics professor and one of the authors. 
 Some high school guidance counselors said that the study smacked of a popularity contest. 
 ''If one is a lemming, this would be a great way of picking a college,'' said Burke Rogers, a veteran college counselor at St. George's, a private boarding school in Newport, R.I. The study, he added, seemed to encourage conformist thinking and the myth of a best college, not a best-fitting one, that high school guidance counselors work hard to dispel. 
 The researchers conceded that sometimes student preferences might not accurately value an individual college. ''If students are all wrong, then the ranking is reflecting students' wrongheaded ideas,'' Ms. Hoxby said. But by and large, the authors said, their ranking gives students and colleges useful information.
 ''It tells you something about what quality of students you will find and how the world might view you depending on which college you go to,'' said Christopher Avery, another author, who studies college admissions at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Mark Glickman, a statistics professor at Boston University, also contributed to the study. 
 The degree of Harvard's dominance was staggering. From their analysis, the researchers predict that a student who gets into both Harvard and Princeton is three times as likely to go to Harvard. That same student, on average, is more than eight times as likely to prefer Harvard to Brown, which ranked No. 7 on the list. M.I.T. and Cal Tech, the researchers said, have Harvard-like appeal but mainly among engineers and scientists; they added that the same holds true for Brigham Young University, which has strong Mormon ties, among Utah residents.
 There were major differences between this ranking, which rates the colleges that top students prefer when they have more than one letter of acceptance, and the list published by U.S. News, which uses various statistics to measure academic quality. 
 Indeed, the two may not always go hand in hand. (Besides their distinct methodologies, there was a three-year time lag in the data used by the researchers, and the economists' study combined national universities with small colleges while U.S. News ranks them separately and allows ties.) 
 Washington University in St. Louis, for example, was tied for the No. 11 spot in this year's U.S. News list of national universities; it was the 62nd rated choice when students' preferences were revealed. Likewise, places like the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Chicago and Duke placed at least eight spots lower on the preference ranking than on the U.S. News list. 
 Meanwhile, colleges like Brown University, which offers a flexible curriculum, along with Notre Dame and Georgetown, which attract a loyal Catholic following, placed several spots higher in the student preference rankings.
 Although he said no single ranking should be the determining factor in a college decision, Robert Morse, the director of data research at U.S. News, also has reservations about how the economists' list might be used.
 ''It would be interesting to know the preferences of other people who got into these schools,'' he said. But to ignore indicators like class size, graduation rates and faculty resources, he added, ''You would be leaving a lot of things on the table to make the best possible choice.'' Several admissions deans said they found the researchers' analysis interesting, but they expressed skepticism. ''People are becoming weary of all rankings,'' said Lee Stetson, the dean of admissions at Penn. ''Whether it helps students or parents make their choices or if we can measure the strength of our institution based on this study is probably still a question.'' 
 The researchers, whose study is available at ssrn.com/abstract=601105, say they do not intend to commercialize their rating system or produce an annual list; they say they want to offer an unbiased, scientific alternative to existing rankings.
 But even if they do have a better method, Bruce Poch, the dean of admissions at Pomona College, asks, ''What does this tell kids?'' 
 ''This is where someone's announcements of preferences poisons the well of independent thinking,'' he continued. ''It's like buying a car. Do you buy a Toyota because it is the No. 1 selling car? It doesn't mean it is a match for you.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Ranking Colleges and Universities''A new system for ranking colleges and universities rates the schools that top students prefer when they can choose from among them. U.S. News and World Report, which publishes a popular ranking, uses various statistics to rate schools.Ranking by student preferenceData from high school seniors in 20001. Harvard2. Yale3. Stanford4. California Institute of Tech.5. Massachusetts Institute of Tech.6. Princeton7. Brown8. Columbia9. Amherst10. Dartmouth11. Wellesley12. University of Pennsylvania13. Notre Dame14. Swarthmore15. Cornell16. Georgetown17. Rice18. Williams19. Duke20. University of VirginiaU.S. News and World ReportData from college survey in 20041. HarvardPrinceton3. Yale4. University of Pennsylvania5. DukeMassachusetts Institute of Tech.Stanford8. California Institute of Tech.9. ColumbiaDartmouth11. NorthwesternWashington University in St. Louis13. Brown14. CornellJohns HopkinsUniversity of Chicago17. Rice18. Notre DameVanderbilt20. EmoryThe ranking by preference includes all colleges and universities. U.S. News has separate categories for colleges and universities. The ranking for universities is shown above. Omitted numbers indicate ties.(Sources by National Bureau of Economic Research
 U.S. News and World Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%) Colleges and Universities; Ratings and Rating Systems; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (83%) US News & World Report (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



447 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Connecticut; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: An Old Mill Gives Way To a Village

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: REDDING, Conn. 

 BODY:
This country-chic picture-postcard community of 8,500 has authorized a project that will in effect create a new village within the town, complete with homes, stores, offices, factories and a cultural center. The cost may reach $300 million. 
 The project will transform a site that in recent years has been considered a blight: the 55-acre Gilbert & Bennett wire mill complex, which was founded in 1818 and shut down in a foreclosure in 1989 after it failed to sufficiently modernize to compete with cheap imports of wire products from Asia. 
 A master plan for the site, approved by the town in September, was created by the architectural firm of Roger Ferris & Partners. The plan provides for 416 units of housing, including artists' live-work lofts; 244,154 square feet of offices and shops; 38,428 square feet of light manufacturing space; and 85,888 square feet for a performing arts center and perhaps a police substation and a fire marshal's office. 
 In addition, the Connecticut Department of Transportation has agreed to a request by the developer, Stephen Soler, the principal of the Georgetown Land Development Company, to make limited stops on the Danbury branch of the Metro-North Commuter Railroad at a platform that Mr. Soler will build on the site. The rail tracks run along the west border of the Gilbert & Bennett property.
 Seventeen of the 32 red-brick factory buildings, including 15 on the National Historic Register, will be preserved, and 21 new buildings will be constructed in the same architectural vernacular. Citing the size of the project, Mr. Soler says he will sell off the housing development rights, and he has engaged nine additional architectural firms. 
 Mr. Ferris, who is the lead architect, said: ''We could not build a new town alone, with a river running through it, historical buildings, mix of uses, a 40-foot-wide waterfall dropping 14 feet, complicated renovations, and designing or renovating more than a dozen buildings ourselves.'' The overall plan is compatible with ''new urbanism,'' a development approach that rejects suburban sprawl and advocates villagelike neighborhoods where many functions are within walking distance. 
 Most affluent Fairfield County towns tend to reject projects of this size and scope, but it was accepted here because of its historically sensitive planning and its promise of tax relief. Natalie Ketcham, who is the first selectwoman, the town's highest elected officer, said this approach is a distinct shift for a town ''with two-acre zoning, 32 square miles of mostly watershed land and very limited commercial development.''
 She added: ''It will have a very positive impact. The developer has projected between $4 million and $5 million in annual tax revenues, and he is setting up a special tax district, which will alleviate municipal costs by having the development's residents pay for their own snow plowing, street lighting, landscaping, roads and fire and police protection, in lieu of the usual common charges.'' Currently, the town's largest taxpayer is an assisted living business. 
 Redding's tax burden is being borne almost entirely by homeowners. ''Redding was allowed to develop its rural character on the back of the G.&B. plant,'' said Ralph Bosch, president of Georgetown Village Restoration. ''Now the town has an opportunity to get a lot of that back.'' 
 Georgetown, as Redding's downtown is known, is just a blocklong collection of restaurants, bars and some retail and office space on Main Street, across Route 107 from the G.&B. plant. ''Georgetown is a subset of Redding,'' Mr. Bosch said. ''It grew up around the mill, an anomaly comprising small portions of Wilton, Weston, Redding and Ridgefield.'' But when Route 107 was built, it cut through Main Street, creating North Main Street, where the G.&B. plant is situated. 
 Mr. Bosch and Ms. Ketcham want to improve downtown Georgetown, linking it again to the G.&B. site with complementary shops and businesses, in cooperation with Mr. Soler. To that end, state and federal grants of $1.3 million will pay for paving and lighting streets and putting utilities underground on Main Street and Old Mill Road. Undeveloped lots on Main Street are expected to attract new retail development as a result.
 Remediation of the soil at G.&B., its groundwater and a factory pond formed by damming part of the Norwalk River will be done in sequence as each area goes into demolition, construction or landscaping. 
 Residents of the town have lived with the vacant site for more than 15 years as potential developers came, looked and threw up their hands. ''Other developers couldn't wrap their arms around the environmental problems,'' said Mr. Soler, a remediation specialist.
 Excavating contaminated soil under preserved buildings by supporting the footings with pilings thrust deep into the ground is only one of several daunting processes that are expected to be used. The overall cost of the project is estimated to be $250 million to $300 million, including the cost of cleaning up zinc, lead, fuel and machine oils. 
 Mr. Soler acquired the deed to the property in 2002 by paying off a $1 million tax lien held by the Town of Redding. In 2003 he secured the site by purchasing a $26 million mortgage held by the Commercial Bank of Kuwait at a reduced figure, which he declined to disclose. 
 Dean J. Shapiro, managing director of CB Richard Ellis in Stamford, will be marketing the commercial components of Gilbert & Bennett. ''It's an incredible opportunity to create a new town built around architecturally significant buildings, well located relative to a number of affluent towns surrounding it, and catering to people's needs today,'' he said. ''We're in the planning stages now, sorting through inquiries for office and retail space.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rail tracks that span the Norwalk River in Georgetown, Conn., sit on the former Gilbert & Bennett complex. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ZONING (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); FORECLOSURE (72%); LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); RIVERS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); SUBURBS (66%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (62%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Geographic Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Gilbert & Bennett

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Redding (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



448 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

 BODY:

A LOTTERY SYSTEMS COMPANY is planning to move more than 700 employees to a new headquarters in central Providence, R.I., showing how far the city's renewal has come. The project is likely to spur more development in the Capital Center District. [C6.]

REDDING, CONN., is going ahead with plans to create a village within the town, on a site that in recent years has been considered a blight. [C7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



449 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Looks Like Diversity, But It Tastes Like Tuna

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
WHEN I ate my way through Vietnam early this year, I never encountered tuna tartare. But fashionable, upscale New York City restaurants these days answer to higher authorities than ethnic fidelity. They kneel before the gods of conformity, and those gods will not be denied their tuna tartare.
 So at Bao 111, a restaurant in the East Village that turns to Vietnam as an extremely permissive muse, I recently found tuna tartare in the unlikely context of spring rolls. On the side was a pineapple-soy dipping sauce, just to boost the dish's Asian credibility.
 When I take a mental passage to India, I do not envision risotto. But this dish, too, enjoys a favor that trumps any and all traditions. So the Indian-theme restaurant Taj, in the Flatiron district, serves a ''fennel-scented risotto,'' justifying it and redirecting it from Milan back toward Mumbai by preparing it with a ''tomato cardamom reduction.'' Taj also serves a tuna and wild striped bass tartare. 
 Astonishingly, neither Taj nor Bao 111 serves foie gras, which has otherwise leapt all geographic constraints, transcended any ethnic affiliation and unleashed a powerful sense of dining deja vu upon our borderless landscape. When I ate recently at Kittichai, a nominally Thai restaurant in SoHo, I had seared foie gras, flanked by a pineapple marmalade. When I ate a few nights later at Taboon, restaurant in Midtown with an Israeli chef and a Middle Eastern bent, I had grilled foie gras, skirted with a green tomato marmalade.
 All four of those restaurants opened over the last two years, and all four show that what is sold and heralded as ethnic variety is often just ethnic blending, with a frapped result that changes little from one restaurant to the next. Behind a comforting illusion of diversity lies an even more comforting reality of sameness. In a city of supposedly inexhaustible options, there seems to be one meal, shaped by tyrannical culinary trends, pervasive nutritional fads and the economics of supply and demand.
 ''All you need are some different condiments, some different lighting and a different-looking menu, and people think they're having a different meal,'' said Mitchell Davis, a cookbook writer who teaches in New York University's department of nutrition, food studies and public health. ''They're not, because they really want to be eating the same things: steak, cod and tuna tartare.''
 Restaurants that are supposedly inspired by one country's culinary traditions provide the best examples, like the use of foie gras in dim sum at 66, in TriBeCa, which liberally channels China. But restaurants with admittedly eclectic leanings end up in an even more homogenous, redundant place. Before I step through their doors, I can usually predict what I will find.
 My appetizer choices will include tuna tartare, tuna sashimi or tuna tataki. If by some astonishing quirk of providence there is not any raw or extremely rare tuna on the menu, there will be some other uncooked fish -- sea bass, yellowtail or Arctic char -- and the odds are 50-50 that it will wear the voguish tag of crudo.
 The list of available meat entrees will surely include duck, probably include beef short ribs and possibly include a Niman Ranch pork chop, unless it includes a Niman Ranch rib-eye or Niman Ranch lamb. The list of available seafood entrees will include monkfish or branzino, unless it includes loup de mer, which is just branzino by a French name.
 Chef after chef dips into the same well of ideas (Miso black cod, anyone?), caters to the same customer cravings (truffle oil for everyone!) and rummages through the same, surprisingly finite larder. More than ever Asia inflects everything, either indirectly (crudo's debt to sushi) or directly (the omnipresence of lemon grass, bonito and yuzu).
 These similar culinary tricks arise from similar conservative impulses: to coddle diners by diluting the exotic with the expected; to guarantee sales and satisfaction by using proven sellers and satisfiers.
 ''You have to appeal to a mass audience,'' said Linda M. Japngie, the chef at Ixta, an ostensibly Mexican restaurant on East 29th Street, during a telephone conversation a few months ago. I had asked her what made her menu Mexican when so many of the entrees -- yellowfin tuna, baby lamb, wild striped bass, duck, salmon -- were not the meats most closely associated with Mexico.
 ''It's not authentic,'' Ms. Japngie (pronounced jap-EN-gee) said of the cuisine at Ixta, adding that most restaurant owners, ''don't want to take too much of a risk and put stuff on the menu that people won't recognize.''
 There are other homogenizing forces at work. Chefs' dedication to using as many fresh, locally produced and seasonal ingredients as possible means that they turn to the same providers and the same foods at the same time. In April I encountered ramps at every turn and asparagus around every corner. In August a thousand heirloom tomato salads bloomed.
 Like many big, rich cities, New York is in permanent thrall to impermanent fashions, and a few people's culinary whims quickly become many people's culinary compulsion.
 Think of salumi. ''Lupa and Il Buco started to cure their meats and now, oh my God, cured meats!'' said Gabrielle Hamilton, the chef and owner of the restaurant Prune in the East Village. ''Everyone's got them hanging over their staff changing rooms now -- salami hanging from the gas pipe.'' (Ms. Hamilton said that she did not, proudly adding, ''If anything, we do overcooked tuna.'')
 Artisanal cheeses are everywhere. So is meat from Niman Ranch, the currency of which underscores two realities: there are really only so many first-rate suppliers, and restaurants want labels and badges that serve as an easily understood shorthand for quality. Restaurants also employ the same semantic devices, specifying that seafood is ''day boat'' or ''line caught.''
 Every other chef is having a romance with Asia, the fruits, roots and seasonings of which have gone from being revelatory flourishes to run-of-the-mill fallbacks. We may live in a wide, wide world, but wasabi spices up every corner of it.
 From a recent menu at Daniel: tuna tartare with wasabi and caviar. From the Four Seasons: tuna sashimi ravioli with wasabi cream and tobiko roe. From Lever House: tuna carpaccio with wasabi creme fraiche. From Solo, which serves haute glatt kosher cuisine: tuna tartare with wasabi or tuna carpaccio with tobiko. Those dishes read like anagrams.
 All the tartare and sashimi are part of a raw-fish craze that now encompasses what is being called crudo, a loosely interpreted Italian concept that is getting a much more vigorous and formalized workout in New York City than it gets in Italy. 
 Crudo is the Italian word for uncooked and, in Italy, applies most often to cured meats like prosciutto. In New York it is the designation du jour (or perhaps, in this case, di giorno) for lightly seasoned raw fish that is cut in a different manner from sashimi or sushi.
 Crudo was popularized by the chef David Pasternack at the Midtown restaurant Esca, and his success inevitably bred emulation. The attention-getting new restaurants Bar Tonno in SoHo, Pace in TriBeCa and Cru in Greenwich Village have menus with sizable sections devoted to crudo.
 Crudo happens to dovetail ever so nicely with the dietary aspirations of many New Yorkers, who are trying to cut down on carbohydrates, fat or both. 
 During a recent phone conversation Christopher Cannon, one of the owners of Bar Tonno, talked up the restaurant's merits by making it sound like an alternative to Equinox.
 ''It's great for me, because I have to lose 15 pounds, and after a week down there, I will,'' Mr. Cannon said, referring to Bar Tonno.
 If he loses 20 and wants to gain 5 back, I can point him toward a few restaurants that serve some kind of panna cotta and a warm, molten or at the very least flourless chocolate cake. Actually, I can probably point him toward hundreds of them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SERVE WITH WASABI, OF COURSE -- Above, tuna tartare with wasabi at Solo. Below, tuna carpaccio with wasabi creme fraiche at Lever House.
 RISOTTO TWO WAYS -- A traditional risotto, above, at Il Buco, which cooks it with porcini mushrooms. Below, risotto as interpreted at Taj, an Indian-theme restaurant. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%); WRITERS (60%) Restaurants

PERSON: Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (72%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



450 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: With Ballgames This Exciting, It's No Wonder Everybody's Yawning

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
After nearly 12 hours of grinding Yankees-Red Sox baseball -- two games, totaling 26 innings, that both ended on Monday -- New York City yesterday was a weary, frazzled town that rued its reputation for never sleeping.
 ''Coming in on the train this morning,'' said John O'Malley, 48, a salesman at Saks Fifth Avenue, ''I am ... like ... I ... cannot... ... watch another baseball game. You know you're going to watch, but you are just so wiped out from baseball.''
 On the other hand, Peter Archey, 38, marketing director at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, a large law firm, is delighted to be exhausted: ''I got four hours of sleep, and the hours of sleep I lost I was happy to lose. I'm a Red Sox fan, and I've lived amidst the Evil Empire for 15 long years.'' 
 While Yankee fans woke up gritting their teeth and Red Sox fans woke up with a smile (and baseball agnostics wondered what the big deal was), everyone could agree that the city's job productivity yesterday, and perhaps for the rest of the week, would be called into question. That was almost guaranteed after last night's victory by the Red Sox, which actually came early this morning and stretched the series to a seventh game.
 Jack Connolly, a clinical psychologist and expert on sleep and performance, said some research showed that as little as 20 minutes of lost sleep over only two days can hurt performance the next morning. ''In modern life, stress hormones are released at work and, of course, while watching a ballgame,'' said Mr. Connolly, whose Shiftwork Consultants in Port Washington, N.Y., advises around-the-clock businesses. ''It's like an air-traffic controller who has a very stressful job working 4 o'clock to midnight,'' Mr. Connolly said. ''It takes you two or three hours to wind down and fall asleep.''
 The culprit, he said, is a stress hormone called cortisol that heightens alertness, much like caffeine. 
 ''The people in Boston and New York, and St. Louis and Houston, and anywhere people are fans, they're going to be tired, irritable; they're not going to perform as well,'' Mr. Connolly said.
 But the Red Sox-Yankees duel uniquely takes on the cast of Achilles versus Hector. Frederic Frommer, co-author of ''Red Sox vs. Yankees: The Great Rivalry,'' said few rivalries had stretched into a century of enmity. ''This is the way to think about it,'' Mr. Frommer said. ''There's a fable about Red Sox fans going to heaven and asking God, 'When will my team win the World Series again?' God scratches his chin and says, finally, 'Well, not in my lifetime.'''
 But of the two camps, Yankee fans are the ones who feel blindsided this week and may be dragging just a bit more than Red Sox fans. 
 John J. Findeisen, 33, an information technology director for Instinet Group, a Manhattan brokerage firm, speaks for a lot of Yankee fans. ''I thought they were going to sweep in four games,'' he said, ''but now they got me a little nervous giving up these last two games.'' He remembers crawling into bed at home on the Upper West Side around 12:30 a.m. Monday for Game 4.
 ''I'd doze in and doze out,'' he said, ''but every time the Red Sox would do something, then the TV volume would jump, and I'd wake up.'' 
 Monday morning, Mr. Findeisen said, was bad: ''I was dragging big time, big time. I needed the double espresso at Starbucks just to walk and keep myself going. But all of a sudden I realized Game 5 was starting at 5 o' clock and I got to get everything done at work so I can get out of here.'' 
 His plan was then to go to Harrison's Tavern, his favorite sports bar on the Upper West Side, which is known as a Red Sox bar. He would get some beers, watch the game and ''I'd be home by 9 and in bed and catch up on my sleep.''
 Mr. Findeisen said he established some personal records Monday night -- 14 beers for 14 innings. ''I kept on drinking beers, and the game kept going, and the next thing I know it's 11.''
 Yesterday, on a chilly, drizzly evening, the early regulars at Time Out New York, the Yankee bar only three doors down from Harrison's, the talk about sleep was more blase.
 Todd Lynch, 27, an unemployed software engineer, said he went to sleep at 1:45 a.m. after Game 4 and got up after noon. But lest his Yankee devotion be held suspect, he noted that on a trip to London last week he got up at 2 a.m. to watch Games 1 and 2. Mr. Lynch nodded, as if to say, ''Now that's a fan.''
 As for Mr. Findeisen, the employed information technology director, he had some advice for groggy Yankee fans who want to keep their jobs. ''Set two alarm clocks for the morning,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); WORKPLACE STRESS (71%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%) Baseball; Sleep

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%) New York Yankees

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



451 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Not a Ship to Spare; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: A Tanker Shortage Contributes to Rising Oil Costs

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
With about $100 million worth of crude oil in its hold, the tanker Front Page will leave Kuwait soon, heading for Louisiana via the Suez Canal. When it arrives 30 days later, its two million barrels will feed refineries throughout the Midwest with crude they will turn into heating oil for the winter. 
 The trip will be an expensive one. Exxon Mobil is paying Frontline, the ship's Norwegian owner, $6.95 million to make the journey. Last year, the shipping company charged $2.4 million for a similar haul. 
 With global oil demand surging and prices hitting record levels, the world's 1,500 oil tankers are all booked up, and their owners are charging hefty premiums. The shortage of tankers is one sign of how strong demand and a lack of investment have left the oil industry's infrastructure stretched thin -- meaning that any hint of disruption in the system can help make prices spike. 
 These strains contribute to climbing energy costs for consumers. According to estimates by the federal Energy Information Administration, the increase in oil transport costs this year translates into an extra nickel a gallon for gasoline at the pump.
 ''Five years ago, when you were looking to book a ship in the Persian Gulf, you used to find 10 ships available,'' said Jeffrey Goetz, a consultant at Poten & Partners, a broker in New York. ''Today, you find three, sometimes only one or two. That's what makes the market feel so tight.''
 In part because of China's growing appetite for oil, the world is expected to consume 2.7 million more barrels a day this year than it did in 2003, and most of that is being carried by ships crisscrossing the oceans. 
 The strong demand has contributed to a 74 percent jump in oil prices in the last year. Oil futures fell to $53.29 a barrel in New York yesterday after reaching a record $55.33 on Monday. 
 ''There's a shortage of tankers today because basically everyone is screaming for oil,'' said Bjorn Lokken, a tanker broker at P.F. Bassoe in Oslo.
 It is the first time since 1973 that ship owners are finding it so difficult to meet demand. Tanker rates have more than doubled in recent weeks to a 30-year high. 
 Rates on the largest ships, like those traveling between the Persian Gulf and Japan, averaged $35,000 a day from 1995 to 2004 but have increased to as much as $135,000 a day recently, according to Mr. Goetz. On a 40-day voyage, the difference adds up to $4 million for a single trip.
 ''It's a good business to be in,'' said Tor Olav Troim, the vice president of Frontline, the world's largest tanker owner. ''All the ships are being used today. In this market, we're making $5 million every day of net profit, even on Sundays.'' 
 With the war in Iraq and the threat of strikes in oil-producing countries like Venezuela and Nigeria, oil markets have been on edge for the last two years. As OPEC countries like Saudi Arabia pump all the oil they can, traders are worried that the world may not be able to handle a sudden interruption in supplies. These fears have added as much as $15 to the price of a barrel, analysts said.
 Erik Kreil, an analyst with the Energy Information Administration, a unit of the Energy Department, suggests oil prices are also high because the basic infrastructure of oil supply simply cannot meet this year's unexpectedly sharp growth in demand.
 ''It's not fear that's driving prices,'' Mr. Kreil said. ''It's the market fundamentals that everyone overlooked.'' 
 The tanker shortfall is just one of the pressures facing oil markets -- a tightness that runs throughout the oil production chain, from fewer oil discoveries to a lack of refineries capable of handling the lower quality crude oil that is typical of most of the world's additional output these days. 
 Paul Horsnell, who directs energy research at Barclays Capital in London, said the industry is paying the price for its lack of investments in the 1990's. ''Everywhere you look, there's a shortage,'' Mr. Horsnell said.
 Largely because of low oil prices throughout the 1980's and 1990's and a glut of capacity from investments made in the 1970's, few refineries, tanker terminals and pipelines have been constructed in recent years. Not a single new refinery was built in the United States in three decades, for example, though that was also driven by environmental restrictions that made it easier to add refining capacity elsewhere. But at the same time, demand for oil has grown steadily.
 ''There's been under-investments in absolutely everything,'' Mr. Horsnell said. ''What we've got here is payback throughout the industry for a market that's relied too long on spare capacity.''
 The tanker business has not been immune to that trend. Major oil companies ordered hundreds of giant oil tankers in the late 1960's, after the closing of the Suez Canal and price shocks sent ripples of concern through the West over the security of oil supplies. 
 But then prices collapsed and the world economy went into a tailspin. For the industry, that meant there were too many ships and too little demand, said Morten Arntzen, the president and chief executive of the Overseas Shipholding Group, one of the world's top ship owners.
 ''Being a tanker owner in the 1980's and 1990's was an unattractive business,'' Mr. Arntzen said. ''It took two decades to flush out that oversupply.'' 
 Over the last decade, the number of tankers in operation has essentially been unchanged, with new ships slowly replacing older vessels that were scrapped. 
 In response to two major oil spills in Europe in recent years, moreover, oil companies have come under much greater pressure to require tankers to have double hulls to protect against spills. 
 According to new industry rules, adopted by the International Maritime Organization in 2001, ships built before 1982 will have to be taken out of service by next April, while all single-hull ships will have to be scrapped by 2010. In all, 40 percent of the existing fleet may disappear and it seems unlikely that enough new ships can be built to replace them in time, some ship owners said.
 Oil analysts, shipbrokers and owners have all been caught short by the growth in oil demand, particularly coming from China. That country alone has accounted for 40 percent of the growth in global demand in the last four years.
 ''China has been the big surprise people didn't see,'' said Peter Evensen, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Teekay Shipping.
 China's oil consumption is set to increase 15 percent this year, after jumping 11 percent last year, according to the International Energy Agency. And since China became a net importer of oil in 1993, most of its imports have been shipped in, adding to the strains in the oil tanker industry. 
 Mr. Evensen said the strains were likely to continue for a while longer, as it takes about four years for a tanker to be delivered once it is ordered.
 In the meantime, the tanker fleet will remain busy. After it unloads its cargo at the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, the Front Page is already booked to load oil in West Africa and bring it to the United States. 
 And those in the industry say shipping prices are likely to keep rising. 
 ''We get asked whether there are enough ships,'' said Louisa Follis, the director of research at Simpson, Spence & Young, a London shipbroker. ''Well, how much do you want to pay?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A tanker unloads crude oil at Beilu port in China. Oil consumption in China is expected to increase 15 percent this year. (Photo by Stephen Shaver/Bloomberg News)Graph: ''Higher Prices On the High Seas''Increasing global demand for oil, coupled with a shortage of oil tankers, has quickly driven shipping rates to record highs.Major oil tanker routes, average daily shipping ratesBased on 5-year-old, 285,000-ton, double-hulled tankersGraph tracks annual averages since Sept. 2001 for:PERSIAN GULF TO FAR EASTPERSIAN GULF TO UNITED STATESWEST AFRICA TO UNITED STATES(Source by Poten & Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); HEATING OIL (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CONSUMPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Tankers; Records and Achievements; Shortages; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); POTEN & PARTNERS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (82%) Energy Information Administration

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (57%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) GULF STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (91%); NORWAY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



452 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Towns That Handed Out Tax Breaks Cry Foul When Jobs Leave Anyway

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: GALESBURG, Ill. 

 BODY:
People in this big-shouldered town, birthplace of the poet Carl Sandburg, say Maytag broke their hearts. After a decade of tax breaks and union concessions to keep the company in a place that has been making refrigerators for more than 50 years, Maytag closed its factory last month, terminating 1,600 jobs.
 Maytag may be done with Galesburg, but Galesburg is not done with Maytag. 
 District Attorney Paul L. Mangieri wants to sue Maytag to recoup what he says were excess tax breaks in a broad package of incentives to keep the company here. Much of the money, he said, came from a purse that would have gone to schools in this economically fragile community. 
 ''We gave Maytag these incentives, and they accepted them,'' said Mr. Mangieri, a Navy veteran who grew up in a small town not far from here in western Illinois. ''We did it based on faith and trust. If we don't do anything now, it sends a message that we lack the resolve to treat the rich and privileged the same as everybody else.''
 Maytag says it honored its agreement and took just the breaks to which it was entitled.
 There are echoes of Mr. Mangieri's argument in Putnam County, Fla., which gave $4.5 million in cash and tax breaks to attract a call center owned by Sykes Enterprises, only to have it pull up stakes this month after less than five years in Palatka.
 ''We ought to sue them,'' said Timothy Keyser, a Putnam County lawyer who opposed the tax breaks from the start. ''They sold the county a bill of goods.'' 
 Galesburg and Putnam are losers in the increasingly cutthroat game of using tax breaks to keep or attract jobs. Across the country, communities are competing with one another to offer the most lucrative incentives to lure good payrolls, from the giant assembly jobs at Boeing to small centers for processing credit cards, despite some studies that question the effectiveness of such tactics.
 Most communities that lose business afterward lick their wounds and walk away, as Putnam County plans to do. But in Galesburg, some people have decided to take a stand, and it has split this community, showing the challenges of fighting back against a corporation. 
 After initially cheering their prosecutor for trying to regain some of the money used to keep Maytag, some people say they are afraid that they may scare off future employers. They question whether suing to reclaim tax breaks will hurt the community even more, adding that they have to pay companies to compete and that it is the cost of doing business in a vulnerable town. 
 ''Maytag's leaving town has devastated our community,'' said Jeff Klinck, a car dealer and the former chairman of the economic development office here. ''But I don't think any good comes from revenge. We want to move forward, not move back.''
 The final decision on whether to sue will be made by November, Mr. Mangieri said. Galesburg, site of a ferocious debate between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas in 1858, has a fighting spirit. Residents say the current civic gut check may determine whether the town becomes another casualty of the force that has devastated communities throughout much of Middle America. 
 Next door in Iowa, officials are keeping one eye on the fight while trying to determine whether they should try to recoup up to $25 million in public money given to business partnerships that have not lived up to their agreements to increase employment. 
 In New York, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said in an audit this year that a program that gives millions of dollars in tax breaks to businesses that promise to create work ended up rewarding some businesses that lost jobs. Other state officials disputed those findings. 
 ''We're all in the same boat: we're hungry for business and we need the tax and job base,'' said Nancy S. Harris, a Putnam County commissioner. ''But in the future, I think we have to do better background checks and tie tax breaks to length of stay and number of jobs.'' 
 Executives at Maytag and Sykes said they had lived up to their agreements in accepting the tax breaks. In return for cash and reduced taxes, the companies created payrolls that more than made up for the inducements from local governments, they said. 
 ''We did not in any way break an agreement,'' Lynne Dragomier, a spokeswoman for Maytag at its headquarters in Newton, Iowa, said. ''We believe we have paid our fair share of taxes in Galesburg.'' 
 The legal question in Galesburg centers on whether Maytag received excess property-tax breaks. Under Mr. Mangieri's interpretation of the original deal, Maytag was entitled to $1 million in reduced property taxes. That amount grew to $2.1 million without protest from the county because the company was staying, county officials said. 
 Though the dollar amount is relatively small, the company and Galesburg residents cite a larger principle. 
 Over the years, Maytag benefited from state and local tax abatements, as well as money raised when people agreed to increase the sales tax. According to Mr. Mangieri, Galesburg raised $2.8 million in sales tax revenue to retrofit the refrigerator plant here, the State of Illinois came through with $5.8 million in aid, and Maytag was given 10 years of property tax abatements. Those breaks ended in 1999 and were not to exceed $1 million, Mr. Mangieri said. 
 Ms. Dragomier said Maytag, which is moving most of the work from Galesburg to a new plant in Mexico, had always been honest in its dealings with Galesburg, population 33,000.
 ''It's very difficult to close a plant like this, and we understand the pain it causes,'' she said.
 The company has 11 manufacturing plants in the United Stares, Ms. Dragomier said, and prides itself on its American workforce. But, she said, it is under ''competitive pressure'' to make some refrigerators at cheaper locations.
 At a Labor Day rally here, union leaders decried tax breaks for companies that do not agree to keep their jobs in the United States. They backed a proposal for ''patriot corporations'' that some lawmakers are circulating. Under that program, a company would receive a tax advantage if it kept production and a high percentage of sales in the United States. 
 ''Maytag betrayed us; everybody knows that,'' said Dave Bevard, a leader of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers local here. ''What our district attorney wants to do is not a vindictive act. It's an issue of fairness.''
 In Florida, Putnam County spent more money to lure Sykes, which operates call centers that provide customer service for other companies, than on any other economic development project, county officials said. In addition to the cash, Sykes was given a five-year break from local property taxes. The company opened its center in 2000. 
 In barely four years, the payroll more than made up for the public cash, said Andrea Burnett, a spokeswoman for the company, which is based in Tampa. 
 ''Yes, they gave us $4.5 million, but in return they got a $120 million payroll,'' Ms. Burnett said. ''That's a good return on their investment.''
 The company is closing some of its American call centers while adding jobs to cheaper overseas centers, company executives have said.
 Smaller businesses say there is also a fundamental issue of fairness. Why not give a tax break to the reliable little company that holds a piece of Main Street real estate and never threatens to leave town? 
 ''We let the other taxpayers down if we don't go after Maytag,'' said Robin Davis, the county treasurer here in Galesburg, who favors a lawsuit to recover taxes from Maytag. ''My sense is if people don't want to work here and pay taxes, we don't want them.''
 There are six taxing entities that gave incentives to Maytag, and several have decided not to pursue the company, arguing that it sends the wrong message at a time the town is desperate to attract new jobs. 
 ''When I first heard Paul Mangieri talk about suing Maytag, I cheered,'' Mr. Klinck, the car dealer, said. ''But on further reflection, I thought this would negate our message.'' 
 Galesburg never tied its tax breaks and cash grants to a long-term stability, but the State of Illinois has since written certain requirements into its laws on enterprise zones.
 The city has passed a bond issue to build a logistical center that it hopes will attract railroad jobs. 
 In Putnam County, Mr. Keyser was so incensed at Sykes's receiving cash and tax breaks that he sent a mock bill to county officials asking for a tax break of $25,000 for the one new employee he hired at his law firm.
 ''It's universal blackmail out there,'' Mr. Keyser said, ''with corporations all playing the same game.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Main Street in Galesburg, Ill., where Maytag has shut a refrigerator factory. District Attorney Paul L. Mangieri, right, wants to sue the company over tax breaks. (Photographs by Kristen Schmid for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); COUNTIES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TRENDS (68%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (65%); CALL CENTERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELOCATIONS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Refrigerators; Relocation of Business; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Labor; Geographic Profiles; Taxation; Tax Credits ; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: SYKES ENTERPRISES INC (54%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Maytag Corp; Sykes Enterprises

TICKER: SYKE (NASDAQ) (54%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Galesburg (Ill); Mexico; Putnam County (Fla) ; Galesburg (Ill); Iowa; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



453 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Hiding the Refugee Problem Offshore

 BODY:
The harrowing scenes we've seen recently of desperate African families adrift on rusting boats in the Mediterranean point to the urgent need for Europe to settle on a common policy for handling the asylum seekers, refugees and illegal immigrants who risk everything to escape their wretched homelands. This global problem requires more than the old answer of shoving the ones who make it past the borders into a shadowy existence, and warehousing the rest.
 Germany and Italy have called for setting up processing centers in North African countries like Libya, Tunisia and Morocco to screen prospective refugees from Africa, the Middle East and Asia. This troubling proposal is driven in part by a rising populist backlash against asylum seekers in these two countries. Without any clear understanding on how these camps would function -- especially in countries not known for their protection of human rights, and in the absence of a common European policy on refugees -- this is a bad idea. This week, it encountered firm resistance from France and Spain, whose new center-left government has been far more welcoming toward all forms of immigration than its conservative predecessor. A similar suggestion recently came from the interior ministers from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Austria and Slovakia. They expressed concern about Chechen and other refugees and proposed setting up transit camps in Ukraine. Understandably, the Ukrainian government bridled at the suggestion, not least because nobody sought its opinion. 
 It's obvious that those who enter Europe illegally pose a serious problem, as they do in the United States. Many of them live outside the legal and social framework of the country they're in. But this problem can't be solved by outsourcing it.
 Refugees who end up in foreign transit camps are likely to face long stretches of what is effectively detention, quite possibly in nasty conditions. Libya, in particular, has an appalling record of forcibly sending asylum seekers back to countries like Eritrea and Sudan, where they face certain persecution.
 It's possible that properly designed, managed and monitored transit centers could be part of an eventual solution. But the more urgent task is for Europe to agree on a common asylum policy, which should recognize that asylum seekers have the right to full protection until their cases have been heard.
 The European Union should also streamline legal immigration procedures. That could help offset the looming labor shortages and pension crises that are otherwise likely to result from the sharp fall in birthrates in several of Europe's largest economies. Until these policies are in place, transit camps are just a place to hide the problem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); REFUGEES (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); OUTSOURCING (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); AFRICA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); TUNISIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); ERITREA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LATVIA (78%); UKRAINE (70%) Libya; Italy; Germany; Europe; Africa

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



454 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Mid-Atlantic: Pennsylvania: Philadelphia's Bond Rating Drops

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Fitch Ratings, a company that evaluates the fiscal health of banks, institutions and municipalities, has lowered its rating for the City of Philadelphia to BBB-plus from A-minus, saying the city's government had experienced poor revenue growth and significant cost increases and depleted its financial reserves. Bond ratings affect how much it costs the city to borrow money. The lower the bond rating, the more interest a municipality is likely to pay on debt. Philadelphia's lower bond rating still signifies a low probability of default.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (84%) Government Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (59%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (59%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (59%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (59%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (59%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



455 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ford Profit Beats Forecast, But Core Business Is Weak
Ford Motor's third-quarter earnings beat Wall Street's forecasts, but it lost money in its car and truck business for the second consecutive quarter.
 The company's pretax North American automotive losses increased to $481 million from $108 million a year earlier. Ford is facing an influx of new vehicles from its competitors. [Page C3.]

Ford and General Motors said the federal government had asked them to provide information about the way they account for their pension funds and retiree medical benefits. [C3.]

Regulators Set to Change Bank Law
Banking regulators in the Bush administration are poised to limit a law requiring small banks to invest in housing and development for low-income residents in their areas. [A1.]

Constellation Bids for Mondavi
Constellation Brands, the world's biggest wine company, said it had made an unsolicited $970 million offer for Robert Mondavi. [C5.]

Cox Shareholders to Be Bought Out
Cox Enterprises, the privately held parent of Cox Communications, agreed to buy out the public minority shareholders in its cable business for $8.5 billion. [C8.]

Handset Sales Drive Motorola Profit
Motorola said its profit more than quadrupled in the third quarter thanks to strong sales of its new cellphone handsets. The results beat analysts' forecasts. [C8.]

Bump for Social Security Payments
Social Security benefits for more than 47 million Americans will increase 2.7 percent next year, the government said. But higher Medicare premiums will take nearly half of the increase for a typical beneficiary. [A24.]

Insurance Inquiry Weighs on Stocks
Stocks fell as health insurers' shares slid on worries about an investigation by the New York attorney general. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 58.70 points, to 9,897.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.79 points, to 1,103.23. [C9.]

Former WorldCom Chief Wins Delay
Bernard J. Ebbers, left, former chief executive of WorldCom, won a two-month delay in his criminal trial for securities fraud and other charges. The judge agreed with Mr. Ebbers that his legal team needed more time to examine hundreds of boxes of new evidence gathered by federal prosecutors so it could prepare its defense. [C4.]

Frank P. Quattrone, the former star investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston who was convicted of obstruction of justice in May, won permission from an appeals court to remain free pending his appeal. [C4.]

Inflation Picked Up Last Month
Consumer prices picked up momentum in September as the cost of medical care, education and gasoline climbed. [C9.]

An Estee Lauder Line for Kohl's
Brands sold by retailers that bore the names of their own stores or other private labels were once considered undesirable. A deal between Kohl's and Estee Lauder shows how that is changing. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,897.62 down 58.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,922.90 down 13.6210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.03% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2518 up 0.0017The dollar -- 108.41 yen down 0.86Graph tracks Ford's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INSURANCE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); MEDICARE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); EVIDENCE (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); STZ (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); EL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (56%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



456 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Profit Up 42%; U.S. Strong, but Europe Is Flat 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation reported a 42 percent increase in third-quarter profit yesterday on the strength of sales in the United States.
 But the company said sales in Europe were weak, and it laid out plans to improve that performance.
 McDonald's, the world's largest fast-food chain, said profit for the quarter rose to $778.4 million, or 61 cents a share -- in line with a higher-than-expected forecast the company gave last week. 
 In the period last year, McDonald's earned $547.4 million, or 43 cents a share.
 Revenue climbed 9 percent, to $4.9 billion, while sales at restaurants open at least 13 months, a measure known as same-store sales, rose 5.8 percent.
 The company's same-store sales in the United States, which rose 8.5 percent in the quarter, have surpassed Wall Street expectations in recent months. McDonald's attributed that to the success of new products like Chicken Selects fried chicken strips, later restaurant hours and the company's allowing payment by credit card.
 That success offset flat same-store sales in Europe, where, McDonald's said, economic weakness and marketing errors in places like Germany and France had hampered its performance.
 In response to waning consumer confidence in Germany, McDonald's introduced a lower-priced menu called McDeals, but said it had not promoted it effectively.
 ''We have not created enough awareness of the program, especially with young adults, which is the most price-sensitive group of all of our consumers in Europe,'' Russ Smyth, the head of McDonald's Europe, said on a conference call with analysts.
 McDonald's now plans to advertise the McDeals menu on television and to change its ''I'm Lovin' It'' marketing campaign in Europe, said Larry Light, the company's global chief marketing officer.
 ''In Europe, our customers give us permission to be a lot edgier than we would get in the U.S.,'' he said.
 In France, McDonald's is also introducing a lower-priced menu and is planning to sell hamburgers with Asian-style and Tex-Mex flavorings.
 The company, which is based in Oak Brook, Ill., said it was pleased with the European sales of its meal-size salads, which have been popular in the United States.
 Excluding a tax benefit of 7 cents a share, the company earned 54 cents a share for the quarter.
 McDonald's shares declined 20 cents, to close at $29, on the New York Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); MENU PRICES (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POULTRY (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Company Reports ; Restaurants 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Mcdonald's Corp

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

PERSON: RUSSELL P SMYTH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



457 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Set to Alter Rules for Banks Lending to Poor

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Federal banking regulators in the Bush administration are poised to limit the nation's primary law requiring small banks to serve low-income residents in their own neighborhoods through housing investments and development projects.
 Since 1977, the Community Reinvestment Act has required banks with assets of more than $250 million to satisfy stringent tests gauging their banking services to low- and moderate-income residents. Because of that obligation, housing groups say, banks have channeled $1.5 trillion into housing, medical clinics and other projects. But many small banks have complained about being sapped by the time and money needed to comply, and also of being overmatched by the resources of larger banks. 
 So in recent months, two of the nation's four bank regulators -- the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, both headed by Bush appointees -- have published formal proposals seeking to reduce the number of banks subject to the law. Under the proposal, only banks with $1 billion in assets would have to comply, meaning that 1,100 smaller banks would be subject to less scrutiny. The thrift office has already put its proposal into effect; the F.D.I.C. is a few months away from acting, although today is the deadline for public comment on the plan. 
 The two other bank regulators -- the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board -- appear inclined to loosen their rules as well.
 The F.D.I.C. proposal alone would mean that the number of banks required to comply with the toughest provisions of the law would drop to 227 from 1,138. In New York, the number is estimated to decline to 20 out of 81; in New Jersey, 12 out of 76. Some states, like Minnesota, New Mexico, Idaho and West Virginia, are projected to drop to zero. 
 The law's detractors say that while the Community Reinvestment Act may have initially been a well-intentioned response to limits on loans in poor neighborhoods, it has become irrelevant because small banks now recognize that community reinvestment is critical for their survival. In addition, these critics point out that through consolidation and inflation, the average size of banks has grown since the law's inception, so that the change does not substantially affect the amount of bank assets covered by the law.
 The debate on the changes has become so intense that it has reached the presidential race. Vice President Dick Cheney demurred when asked about the proposed changes in August at a campaign rally in Iowa. But last month, Senator John Kerry said that he strongly supported keeping the law in its current form, and accused the Bush administration of choosing ''favors for special interests over opportunity for millions of average Americans.'' 
 The law's critics say it has forced small banks to struggle to stay afloat, putting them at a competitive disadvantage with large banks more adept at complying with the law. 
 ''Community banks are an endangered species, and they are drowning in a sea of regulation,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Republican from Texas who sponsored a bill this year to raise the threshold to $1 billion. ''I'm not completely certain what purpose C.R.A. serves, period. If there are people who would like to repeal it, I would talk to them.''
 But many Democrats, larger banks and rural organizations say the Community Reinvestment Act has arguably been the nation's most significant community revitalization initiative. Before the law, many banks engaged in discriminatory red-lining practices by choosing not make mortgage and business loans to people in poor and predominantly minority neighborhoods. After the law, banks were held accountable to a higher and tougher standard, forcing them to actively pursue lending, investment and other activities in poor areas.
 In New York, for instance, the law has been instrumental in financing a Pathmark on 125th Street -- the first full-size supermarket in Harlem -- and the Harlem USA shopping area, as well as the rehabilitation of hundreds of dilapidated apartments in upper Manhattan, the Lower East Side, the Bronx and Chinatown.
 These supporters have accused regulators of acting capriciously in unveiling their proposals, and limiting or even eliminating the public comment period. But they are angriest at what they contend is a broader design to dismiss the housing needs of poor people, pointing to proposed cuts to the Section 8 voucher program.
 ''It's all part of a strategy,'' said Senator Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the Banking Committee. ''This administration has no commitment to affordable housing.''
 The Community Reinvestment Act gained strength in 1995, when the Clinton administration adopted a series of tougher guidelines that banned noncompliant banks from participating in any mergers, acquisitions or expansion projects.
 Over time, many banks -- particularly giants with the resources to develop expertise, such as J.P. Morgan Chase and Bank of America -- converted their legal obligation into a profitable business by investing in low-income housing, mortgage lending and urban development projects. Were it not for the law, only half, or less, of the housing and commercial revitalization projects in Harlem would have been completed, said Carol Parry Fox, who was executive vice president in charge of community development at Chase Bank in the 1990's.
 Even Mel Martinez, President Bush's first housing secretary and now a Republican Senate candidate in Florida, said during his Senate confirmation hearings in 2001 that the law had a ''very important role to play'' in building communities allowing more Americans to own a home.
 ''One of the things that I have done in the private sector is serve as the director of a bank,'' Mr. Martinez said at the time. ''And it is in that role that I know that at times it can be a headache for the private sector to fulfill the C.R.A. requirements. But I also know it is the right thing to do and it is a good thing for communities.''
 Quantifying the impact of the Community Reinvestment Act, however, has been subject to some debate.
 In 2001, the Treasury Department reported that without the law, banks ''would have advanced about one-fifth fewer home purchase loans to low- and moderate-income individuals and communities.'' But the following year, the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard said the law was so outdated that its future impact was likely to diminish.
 Many bankers and housing groups believe that the F.D.I.C. will ultimately approve its own $1 billion proposal from Augustand other regulators will follow suit. John D. Hawke Jr., who was the comptroller of the currency until his five-year term ended last week, said in an interview that he was ''quite comfortable with raising the threshold to $1 billion,'' as long as there were some tougher community development standards.
 Frances R. Grossman, executive vice president of ShoreBank Corporation in Chicago, which opposes the proposals, said: ''I don't think it's good guys or bad guys. I just think that they are motivated by being efficient and cutting costs, and if they see this as a way to cut costs or not have to do something, that's human nature.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''BY THE NUMBERS: Dollars for Development''Community development lending under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) has surged nationwide in the last four years.Graph tracks lending from 1996 through 2003.(Source by Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%) Banks and Banking; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation; Urban Areas; Area Planning and Renewal; Housing; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (59%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (54%) Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Office of Thrift Supervision; Comptroller of the Currency; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (50%) David W Chen; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



458 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Payment Will Increase, as Will Medicare Bite

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Social Security benefits for more than 47 million Americans will increase 2.7 percent next year, the government announced Tuesday. But higher Medicare premiums will take nearly half of the increase for a typical beneficiary.
 The squeeze on Social Security payments reflects the fact that health costs are rising much faster than consumer prices in general.
 The annual cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security is based on the rise in the Consumer Price Index. Medicare premiums, by contrast, are set at the level needed to finance about one-fourth of the cost of Part B of Medicare, which pays for doctors' services and other outpatient care. 
 Social Security officials said the average monthly cash benefit for retired workers would rise to $955 in January, from $930 this year, an increase of $25 a month. 
 But the Bush administration announced in September that the monthly Medicare premium would rise $11.60, or 17.4 percent, to $78.20, from the current $66.60. The increase in Medicare premiums will thus take 46 percent of the increase in the average Social Security benefit for retired workers.
 Most elderly and disabled people have their Medicare premiums deducted from their monthly Social Security checks.
 William D. Novelli, chief executive of AARP, the lobby for older Americans, said, ''Far too many Social Security beneficiaries will see the Social Security cost-of-living adjustment partially or completely eroded by the Medicare premium increase.'' For 8 out of 10 retirees, Mr. Novelli noted, Social Security is the primary source of income.
 Retirees, like other consumers, also face the prospect of higher heating bills this winter. Those costs, like medical costs, are increasing faster than Social Security benefits.
 Representative Pete Stark of California, senior Democrat on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said, ''Nearly 13 million beneficiaries will have half or more of their cost-of-living adjustments taken away by the increase in Medicare premiums next year.'' 
 In the presidential campaign, Senator John Kerry has repeatedly accused President Bush of mismanaging Medicare.
 Campaigning on Tuesday in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Mr. Kerry said: ''For a typical senior, nearly half of this year's Social Security cost-of-living adjustment is going to be eaten away by the record rise in Medicare premiums. And for two million seniors, their entire cost-of-living increase will be completely wiped out by the higher Medicare premiums. That leaves less money for food, medicine and even an occasional gift for a grandchild.''
 Mr. Kerry said, ''That's wrong, and when I'm president, I'm going to change it.'' 
 Megan E. Hauck, deputy policy director of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, said, ''It's a shame to play politics this way, scaring seniors on Social Security.''
 Mr. Kerry asserts that Mr. Bush is responsible for the increase in Medicare premiums scheduled to take effect in January. But Mr. Bush says the premiums are set under a formula established by law, and the Bush campaign points out that Mr. Kerry, as a senator, voted for the law, in 1997.
 Ms. Hauck said, ''No senior's Social Security check will be smaller in January than it was in December.''
 Under federal law, the increase in the premium for Part B of Medicare is limited; it cannot be larger than the cost-of-living increase in a person's Social Security benefits.
 This limit does not apply to separate premiums that will be charged for prescription drug benefits when drug coverage becomes available in 2006.
 Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, said that in the absence of such protection, ''many beneficiaries will see their Social Security checks shrink'' after 2006, as increases in Medicare premiums, for basic benefits and drug coverage, outstrip increases in Social Security benefits.
 The Congressional Budget Office predicts that premiums for the Medicare drug benefit, which are tied to total outpatient drug spending under Medicare, will grow much faster than the basic premium, for doctors' services and other outpatient care.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Squeeze on Social Security''Social Security benefits will rise 2.7 percent next year, and higher Medicare premiums will take up much of that increase for many beneficiaries.Graphs track the following from 1980 through 2005.Changes in Social Security benefitsBased on the Consumer Price Index for urban wage earners and clerical workersChanges in Medicare premiumsReflect changes in the cost of Medicare Part B, which covers visits to doctors and other outpatient care(Sources by Social Security Administration
 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); POLITICS (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%) Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Medicare

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); AARP INC (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PETE STARK (52%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



459 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Angry Crowd Scolds Mayor On Crime Rate Far Uptown

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, armed with an arsenal of rosy statistics about the city's crime rate, was confronted Monday night by a frustrated and at times bellicose crowd that challenged his administration's performance on cracking down on crime in upper Manhattan.
 The mayor, who has attended more than 70 civic and community meetings over the last two years, faced a litany of complaints from the roughly 400 residents of Washington Heights and Inwood who packed the Fort Tryon Jewish Center auditorium on Fort Washington Avenue. The residents complained of drug sales, prostitution, car thefts, a plethora of pit bulls in menacing packs at a local park, drag racing, and a less-than-responsive police force.
 After 30 minutes of back and forth discussion between residents and Mr. Bloomberg, a man who identified himself as a public-school teacher, said frostily, ''I'd like to get some concrete answers about what you're going to do about crime in this neighborhood.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who has spent much of the last year boasting about his administration's impressive record against crime, seemed unprepared for the anger shown at Monday night's town meeting, which suggested that for all the city's well-documented success in reducing crime over all, in some neighborhoods the mayor could be vulnerable on that issue as he heads into an election year.
 For more than an hour, the mayor and the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, struggled to answer the questions, trotted out crime statistics that underscored how much crime had fallen over the last decade in the area and suggested that residents call 311 or take other actions that those residents said they had tried before. 
 When one woman said that car theft was high in the Soundview section of the Bronx, Mr. Bloomberg replied, ''There is always going to be some area that is the highest.'' More than once, Mr. Kelly referred to a rise in crimes like burglary and larceny as ''blips.'' 
 Moments later, a woman rose, her voice shaking, and said: ''I'd like to take brief issue with the commissioner's characterization of crime in this neighborhood as a blip.'' Greeted with applause, she said that she had been assaulted on the A train and that her car had been broken into three times in the last three weeks while it was parked on Broadway. ''The entire neighborhood has given up on even calling the police,'' she said.
 Robberies and other crimes in the 33rd and 34th Precincts, which cover Inwood and Washington Heights, have risen over the last year as they have mostly fallen citywide. For example, in the 34th Precinct, which covers the upper tip of Manhattan, robberies are up 14 percent for the year, though they have fallen 8.2 percent throughout the city, according to police statistics. 
 Burglaries in that precinct have risen 19.8 percent this year, while they have fallen 8.3 percent across the city. But Mr. Kelly said that some important arrests had recently been made in the area, which he thought would improve the situation. 
 Unlike the situation in other parts of the city, where the local questions tend to center on narrow issues like overdevelopment (Staten Island) or a preponderance of pornography shops (Greenwich Village), crime is by far the most dominant issue that community groups in Upper Manhattan are concerned with, particularly after a young woman was found murdered in Inwood Hill Park. ''We have been working over the past several weeks over the numerous public safety issues,'' Pamela Palanque North, the vice chairwoman of Community Board 12, said in an interview yesterday. ''And the response from the mayor and the police commissioner last night showed almost a little bit of a disconnect.''
 ''The response was to let people know that the number of arrests had gone up 50 percent in the 34th Precinct,'' she continued. ''That is helpful to know, but at the same time, they were avoiding the issues that are open and raw and happening in the community now. There was an exchange of business cards and so forth on things like sanitation issues and parks issues, but on public safety I would give them a C-minus.''
 Mr. Bloomberg began the meeting 25 minutes late, and moved through the stock speech that he gives to all audiences every week, one that portrays modern New York as a place where a diverse population enjoys improving schools, a recovering economy and falling crime.
 ''We have to bring it down more,'' he said, ''and we have a little problem in the 34th Precinct, which is actually where you are now.''
 But while his audience was polite -- he got applause for saying he had taken the A train that day -- Mr. Bloomberg looked annoyed by the end, promising to look into the neighborhood's complaints. He left after about 45 minutes, and did not mention whether or not he would be back soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (93%); MAYORS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); ROBBERY (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); BURGLARY (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%) Crime and Criminals

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



460 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Debt Not Big Burden, Greenspan Says

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan on Tuesday defended one of the most tangible results of his tenure as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board: the big increase in homeowner debt.
 In his most detailed discussion yet on the subject, Mr. Greenspan disputed analysts who worry that home buyers have become swept up in a speculative housing bubble that the Fed is partly responsible for creating. While he acknowledged that consumer debt has risen ''especially steeply'' in the last five years, he said family finances were still in ''reasonably good shape.'' 
 Mortgage debt and housing prices have both soared since 2001, in part because the Federal Reserve pushed borrowing costs to their lowest levels since the 1950's. With interest rates now rising, a growing number of economists worry that many home buyers will face higher monthly debt payments in an economic environment that could cause house prices to fall.
 In a speech here to a convention of community bankers, Mr. Greenspan said fears of a speculative bubble in housing prices were exaggerated, because people cannot buy and sell their own homes as easily as stock market speculators can buy and sell stock. 
 The biggest risk of a housing bubble, he said, would be among people who buy second homes and vacation homes. But those kinds of purchases accounted for only 11 percent of new mortgages in 2003.
 The Fed chairman also contended that many measures of household debt overstate the size of debt burdens. While home mortgages have soared, the values of the properties have climbed as well, he said.
 ''Taking into account this higher level of assets,'' Mr. Greenspan said, ''all in all the household sector seems to be in reasonably good financial shape with only modest evidence of an increased level of household financial strain.'' 
 But a growing number of private economists are skeptical, arguing that the Fed has contributed to an overvalued housing market.
 Goldman Sachs, in a report entitled ''Trouble Brews in the Housing Market,'' estimated last week that nationwide housing prices are now about 10 percent higher than the level justified by current interest rates and household incomes.
 The report also warned that the supply of new housing is growing much more rapidly than demand in many areas. Home buyers, meanwhile, ''appear to have developed a speculative mind-set'' with wildly inflated expectations about future price increases.
 Kathleen Bostjancic, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch in New York, said Mr. Greenspan was glossing over the risks of a housing bubble, particularly one focused in high-price areas on the East and West Coasts, similar to the stock market bubble that collapsed four years ago.
 ''He talks about how housing doesn't lend itself to being a bubble because it's harder to trade houses and you have to live in a home,'' Ms. Bostjancic said. ''But on the other hand, it's happening in the U.K. and it has happened in Japan. It also happened here in the Northeastern United States in the early 90's. There is a precedent for housing bubbles in the U.S. on a regional basis.''
 Ms. Bostjancic also noted that about 20 percent of consumer debt is adjustable-rate financing, and about 40 percent of new home mortgages have adjustable rates. Even though many adjustable loans have limits on rate increases and often lock in fixed rates for several years initially, monthly payments on such loans will eventually go up as interest rates climb higher. And home buyers right now face higher interest rates immediately, crimping demand. 
 Mr. Greenspan said that consumers do not appear overwhelmed by their debt loads and that many homeowners had used home-equity loans to pay down more expensive kinds of consumer debt, particularly credit card balances. The so-called financial obligations ratio, a broad measure of the mandatory monthly household payments, has climbed sharply since the early 1990's and peaked at 18.5 percent of disposable income in 2002. Since then, the ratio has declined slightly to 18 percent. But Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that homeowners and renters alike are using more of their income than before to cover credit card debt.
 Dean Baker, director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, a liberal research group in Washington, has long argued that a housing bubble is under way and that household finances are shakier than they appear.
 Mr. Baker said that homeowners' equity is a significantly smaller percentage of the value of their homes than it was in the 1970's, even though the population has become older and should have accumulated greater assets and built up a higher net worth. 
 According to Federal Reserve data, homeowners' equity was equal to 66 percent of the value of their real estate during the 1970's. That share declined to an average of 56.8 percent in the 1990's and is now about 55 percent.
 ''You'd expect people going into their mid-50's would be paying off their debt,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Instead, the percentage of equity is at record lows.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMMUNITY BANKS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%) United States Economy; Housing; Mortgages; Credit; Consumer Credit; United States Economy

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



461 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall Over Concerns About Insurance Investigation

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as health insurers' shares slid on worries that an investigation by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, would hurt the entire industry.
 Those concerns and a drop in steel makers' shares offset an early lift inspired by better-than-expected earnings from I.B.M. and a morning decline in oil prices.
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 58.70 points, or 0.6 percent, at 9,897.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 10.79 points, or 1 percent, at 1,103.23, its lowest level since Aug. 30. 
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index finished down 13.62 points, or 0.7 percent, at 1,922.90.
 Shares of health insurers like Cigna tumbled as Mr. Spitzer's expanding investigation into bid-rigging threatened to envelop the industry.
 But I.B.M., the world's largest computer company, rose 4 percent, a day after it posted third-quarter results that analysts said showed a recovery from a weak second quarter. 
 Texas Instruments also helped technology stocks after reporting strong quarterly earnings and revenue growth on Monday.
 ''It looked like the market would open up and stay strong, based on the fact that oil prices were moving lower and I.B.M. and T.I. came out with good results,'' said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the U.S. Equity Group at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management.
 ''But that's been erased because of the potential widening probe on behalf of Spitzer -- which has not been confirmed -- and on top of that we are facing the situation where oil is potentially heading higher,'' he said. 
 The November crude oil futures contract settled down 38 cents at $53.29 a barrel, but that was well above its low for the day of $52.59 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In the stock market, trading was heavy, with 1.7 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, above the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. 
 Decliners outnumbered advancers on the Big Board by about two to one, and three to two on Nasdaq.
 Insurers' shares slumped. American International Group, which fell nearly 14 percent last week after Mr. Spitzer leveled fraud charges against the insurance broker Marsh & McLennan, ended yesterday's session down 3.3 percent, or $1.98, at $57.70.
 Marsh & McLennan fell nearly 6 percent, or $1.47, to $24.10.
 ''If you get nervous and are in a situation where you're fearful of where in insurance the next shoe will drop, people will sell first and ask questions later,'' said Michael Chren, senior portfolio manager at National City Investment Management.
 Shares of Aetna and Cigna were particularly hard hit. Cigna confirmed it had received a subpoena from Mr. Spitzer, and the Hartford Courant reported that Aetna had received one.
 Cigna was down 10.3 percent, or $6.85, at $59.73, and Aetna was down almost 12 percent, or $11.57, at $87.17. Shares in steel makers fell for a second day after one of the major companies, Steel Dynamics, warned that steel prices might drop in the fourth quarter. Steel Dynamics shares fell 12.3 percent, or $4.14, to $29.66.
 Texas Instruments, the largest maker of chips for cellular phones, climbed $1.46, or almost 7 percent, to $22.55. Shares of Intel, the world's dominant chip maker, nudged up 1 cent, to $20.80. I.B.M.'s stock was up $3.45 at $89.37.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 4/32, to a price of 101 24/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.03 percent from 4.05 percent on Monday.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.877
High Rate: 1.570
Coupon Yield: 1.594
Low Rate: 1.550
Median Rate: 1.560
Total applied for: $38,868,754
Accepted: $12,133,066
Noncompetitive: $45,814

The four-week bills mature Nov. 18, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INSURANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Finances; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (92%); MARSH INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (84%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



462 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: VOTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Town-Hall Pulse, for the Election and Beyond

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
As an undecided ''security mom'' in a battleground state, Kim Garcia was already one of America's most intensely scrutinized voters when she sat down in a classroom at Carnegie Mellon University on Saturday morning. But Mrs. Garcia, a nurse in Pittsburgh, was about to experience a whole new level of attention.
 She was one of more than 1,500 randomly chosen voters in 17 cities participating in what was probably the largest, and certainly the most scientific, town-hall meeting of any presidential campaign. It may also have been the longest: eight hours of discussing the issues, watching informational videos, questioning experts and filling out surveys. 
 To the political scientists running this ''deliberative poll,'' the results showed that Americans could transcend the bitter partisan rhetoric this year to become more tolerant of others' views, better informed about issues and possibly more inclined to vote for Senator John Kerry.
 To some skeptics, in academia as well as in Mrs. Garcia's group, it was mainly a chance for the loudest and most articulate to sound off to a captive audience of voters not about to change their minds. But even the skeptics acknowledged that this new form of polling could be a promising technique for resolving issues less complex than the presidency.
 Mrs. Garcia, who is 44 and has two daughters, started the day as the lone undecided voter in a group with five favoring Mr. Kerry and four favoring President Bush. When they discussed the economy, she sided with the Kerry voters who criticized outsourcing. Complaining about the lack of jobs in Pittsburgh, she said that her husband, a mechanic at the struggling US Airways, could soon be out of work. 
 But when terrorism and the war in Iraq were discussed, she sided with the Bush voters against Pat Gallaway, a retired educator, who said that American violence only begat more violence in Iraq. ''I don't think any individual really wants to make war,'' Ms. Gallaway said.
 Mrs. Garcia looked incredulous. ''So why are they having so many car bombs?'' she asked.
 Mrs. Garcia's views on the war moderated, though, after she and the other voters put questions to a panel of academic experts. It was an ideological mix of experts, but those favoring a Kerry multinational approach were the most outspoken, and at the end of the day Mrs. Garcia said their remarks left her inclined to vote for Mr. Kerry. 
 That was typical of the results among the other undecided voters in the national sample, who were significantly more likely to move toward Mr. Kerry than Mr. Bush, said James Fishkin, a political science professor at Stanford University who directed the experiment. But Professor Fishkin warned against reading too much into that result, because there were a disproportionate number of Republican no-shows, and the preponderance of Democrats might have swayed the undecideds.
 When the results of the final poll were weighted to compensate for the missing Republicans, Mr. Kerry led Mr. Bush, 48 percent to 42 percent, with 7 percent undecided. In the poll taken ahead of time, Mr. Kerry had led by 42 percent to 41 percent, with 15 percent undecided. The most important results, Professor Fishkin said, were other changes measured in before-and-after surveys of the 1,535 voters. Across the political spectrum, he said, voters became more knowledgeable on specific issues, like the outsourcing of jobs and how Mr. Kerry voted on the resolution authorizing the use of force in Iraq, and their views became more moderate on most issues.
 ''We've shown that even during a highly polarized election, people can actually reach some mutual understanding when they spend some time learning about the issues and talking to people very different from themselves,'' Professor Fishkin said. ''This is a picture of what democracy could be like if people had a dialogue and heard more than the usual campaign sound bites.''
 This experiment, which was sponsored by local public television stations and will be featured in a PBS program on Thursday, is likely to have results that endure beyond the election, Professor Fishkin said. ''We've found that people who participate in these deliberative polls are more likely to go on to vote and contribute to candidates and get involved in their communities,'' he said. ''This is a mechanism for creating social capital.''
 Some, though, questioned how useful this exercise was for a presidential election. Arthur Lupia, a political science professor at the University of Michigan, said that deliberative polling worked best when applied to relatively simple local issues, like how to run a public utility or whether to expand an airport -- situations where a representative sample of the public could learn enough to reach a consensus more useful than a poll of voters who knew little about an issue. 
 ''If you and I have some basic values in common and there's a problem we both want to solve, then coming together and sharing information works great,'' Professor Lupia said. ''But when people fundamentally disagree on what they're trying to accomplish, as Democrats and Republicans do today about the direction of the country, then coming together and talking doesn't change their minds. They commonly just tune each other out.''
 Aside from Mrs. Garcia, no one else in her group said the day of deliberation had swayed his or her vote. Helen Rusenko, a retired office worker and Bush supporter, did not sound uplifted by the experience. 
 ''What I learned today is that some people don't think any further than the end of their nose,'' Ms. Rusenko said, alluding to the opponents of the Iraq war.
 Most, though, said they had enjoyed themselves and learned at least a few things from the experts and their neighbors. ''It was a long day, but it was worth it to hear concerns from people you don't normally talk to,'' Mrs. Garcia said. After she and the others received their $75 stipend for participating, most said they would be willing to endure it again, free of charge.


GRAPHIC: Photo: As one part of the town-hall project, Kim Garcia completed a survey. (Photo by Lisa Kyle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORISM (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F TIERNEY (73%) Kim Garcia; James (Prof) Fishkin; John Tierney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



463 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Flu Vaccine Policy Becomes Issue for Bush

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and GARDINER HARRIS; David E. Sanger reported from The Villages for this article, and Gardiner Harris from Washington.

DATELINE: THE VILLAGES, Fla., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
With polls showing that Florida is once again too close to call, President Bush on Tuesday assured the state's flu-wary retirees that ''we have millions of vaccines doses on hand for the most vulnerable Americans'' as his administration said that 2.6 million more doses would be available by January.
 Mr. Bush spoke as the flu vaccine shortage moved to center stage in the campaign and as his secretary of health and human services, Tommy G. Thompson, said that Aventis Pasteur, the only company approved this year to sell flu vaccines, would be able to make the extra doses of flu vaccines available so the total would be about 58 million doses in all. 
 That figure is still just 60 percent of the expected demand this year for flu vaccine, but Mr. Thompson said at a news conference that those doses combined with stocks of anti-flu drugs would be enough to keep Americans safe. 
 Democrats have seized on the vaccine shortage to accuse the administration of being unable to protect Americans -- from either illness or terrorism. ''If you can't get flu vaccines to Americans, how are you going to protect them against bioterrorism?'' Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, asked in an interview with National Public Radio. ''If you can't get flu vaccines to Americans, what kind of health care program are you running?''
 The Kerry campaign has produced a television advertisement that blames Mr. Bush for the shortage, and a new Kerry radio commercial includes this charge: ''They relied on foreign workers to make the vaccine. A company with a bad track record. Now we're about 50 million vaccines short.'' 
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat and close ally of Mr. Kerry, criticized Mr. Thompson's remarks and those of other administration officials as an effort to ''put a happy face on a disaster.'' Facing such criticism, Mr. Bush, campaigning in a state with a large elderly population, addressed the issue in detail at a rally in St. Petersburg.
 ''I know there are some here who are worried about the flu season,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I want to assure them that our government is doing everything possible to help older Americans and children get their shots, despite the major manufacturing defect that caused this problem,'' he said, a reference to the stopping of production at a plant in Britain owned by the Chiron Corporation. 
 Mr. Bush on Tuesday also touched on other health care themes. He repeated his charge that Mr. Kerry ''wants to move in the direction of government-run health care,'' an accusation meant to bring up memories of Hillary Rodham Clinton's plan a decade ago.
 The Kerry campaign disputes the notion, because under its plan, health plans would still be privately run, though the government would subsidize 75 percent of the cost of catastrophic claims, probably those more than about $50,000. It would also raise the income cutoff for Medicaid and state-run health programs. 
 Mr. Bush also accused Mr. Kerry of ''old-style scare tactics'' on issues like Social Security and flu. The Bush campaign appears particularly concerned here that it is vulnerable to Mr. Kerry's attacks on the president's plan to allow younger workers to divert part of their Social Security taxes into private investment accounts. The proposal would be enormously expensive by most government estimates, because money diverted into private Social Security accounts -- which could be invested by individuals -- would no longer be available to the government to pay current Social Security recipients.
 Mr. Bush said on Tuesday that during the 2000 campaign ''they said in those political ads that if George W. gets elected, our seniors will not get their Social Security checks. I want to remind your friends and neighbors they got their checks. Nobody is going to take the checks of those who are now on Social Security.''
 The Kerry campaign immediately e-mailed to reporters excerpts from the 2004 ''Economic Report of the President,'' showing that depending on which Social Security plan was adopted, the federal deficit could increase by up to $2 trillion over 10 years. Mr. Bush rarely if ever discusses the costs of his privatization plan. 
 The flu vaccine shortage is a late-developing issue on the campaign trail. Nearly 90 million Americans are at high risk to contract a potentially fatal case of influenza. In most years, just half of those at highest risk of the disease are vaccinated. Usually, public health officials work to persuade the other half to be vaccinated, in hopes of reducing the disease's annual death toll of nearly 36,000.
 But this year all 46 million doses produced by Chiron, the nation's only other supplier, were condemned because of bacterial contamination, and as a result public health officials are relying on low vaccination rates to get them through the season. Efforts by many health departments to publicize the advisability of being vaccinated have stopped. Many experts say the shortage will lead to a greater number of flu-related deaths.
 Mr. Thompson said that more had been done to fight the flu by this administration than by any previous one. Echoing comments made in recent days by Vice President Dick Cheney, he said that tort reforms proposed by the administration were needed to help vaccine manufacturers even more.
 But Congress in 1986 passed the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act that largely shields vaccine manufacturers from serious legal liability. Congress voted this year to add flu vaccines to the program, a bill that only awaits President Bush's signature, according to a spokesman for the program.
 The Vaccine Injury Compensation system provides ''no fault'' awards to those injured by vaccines by tapping into a fund created through an excise tax. Mr. Thompson acknowledged those shields, but he said that tort reforms would also help. 
 The acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Lester M. Crawford, said on Tuesday that his agency was continuing to negotiate with ID Biomedical in Canada and other manufacturers of the flu vaccine worldwide to determine whether the United States could safely import more vaccine. 
 Dr. Crawford said there was nothing inconsistent about his search for more flu vaccine abroad with his continued opposition to legalizing drug imports. The government would not license any flu vaccine until the F.D.A. determined it is safe, he said. His opposition to imports of other prescription drugs stems from the government's inability to certify that such drugs are safe, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Secret Service agent loosened the grip of a supporter who latched onto President Bush at a rally yesterday in St. Petersburg, Fla. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (98%); INFLUENZA (96%); ANTIVIRALS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AGING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DRUG SHORTAGES (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); CHILDREN (72%); TERRORISM (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (66%); PUBLIC RADIO (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%) Influenza; Vaccination and Immunization; Election Issues; Aged; Terrorism; Influenza; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Social Security (US); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (90%); NOVARTIS AG (84%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (54%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (90%); SANF (BIT) (90%); SAN (PAR) (90%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (90%); NVS (NYSE) (84%); NOVN (SWX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%) David E Sanger; Gardiner Harris; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Tommy G (Sec) Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



464 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Inquires Into Pension Accounting at Ford and G.M.

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company said yesterday that the federal government had asked them to provide information about how they account for their pension funds and retiree medical benefits, suggesting that a new inquiry into an area of accounting that has long troubled both investors and pension-rights advocates will cast a broad net.
 The two automakers joined the Delphi Corporation, which disclosed on Monday that the Securities and Exchange Commission had requested similar information. The commission is seeking e-mail messages and other documents that pertain to the actuarial assumptions that the companies have used since the year 2000 to calculate their pension values and other obligations to retirees. 
 All three companies said they were cooperating with the S.E.C., and said that they thought they had properly accounted for their pension funds and benefits. 
 An official of the S.E.C. confirmed that the commission had not found any violations of securities law at the companies. He said the commission wanted to examine the records to see if there was any connection between the application of pension accounting standards and efforts to smooth earnings. Several other companies were believed to have received requests as well, but the official declined to identify them.
 The official said the commission was looking at companies where small adjustments in actuarial assumptions could have a significant impact on overall financial performance -- a description that would apply particularly to companies, like the automakers, with very large pension funds. The S.E.C. official also said the agency was examining companies that had been making especially aggressive actuarial assumptions. 
 A spokesman for Northwest Airlines, when asked whether that company had been contacted by the S.E.C., said: ''Northwest Airlines will release its financial results on Wednesday. We will address this issue during our analysts' news media call.''
 Among large American companies with traditional pension plans, Northwest Airlines has been assuming an unusually high return on its pension investments. In 2003, Northwest assumed a 9.5 percent return on average over the long term. The median was 8.64 percent, according to an analysis by the actuarial firm Milliman USA of the 100 largest companies with pension funds. 
 Even though companies are not allowed to take surplus earnings out of their pension funds, a company that assumes its fund will post big investment returns can report significantly higher earnings, or narrow its losses, because the assumption artificially reduces the reported cost of providing benefits, which bolsters the bottom line.
 Because pension funds and retiree medical plans are long-term commitments, actuaries routinely make assumptions about future economic and demographic trends when calculating the value of promised benefits in today's dollars. Some of their assumptions are regulated, but for others, companies and their consultants have considerable latitude.
 Even when a company is found to have used an unusual actuarial assumption, it is extremely hard to prove that it did so deliberately to increase earnings or produce some other desired effect.
 That was why the S.E.C. had requested e-mail records and other documents, the official said, ''to see what's motivating them when they set these assumptions.''
 Analysts differed on whether the S.E.C. inquiry might ultimately lead to widespread changes in how companies account for their pension funds and retirement benefits.
 One debt rating service, Fitch Ratings, issued a report yesterday that suggested that actuarial assumptions in the area of health care costs were unlikely to stand up under regulatory scrutiny because they have not kept pace with the real world. As a result, Fitch said, companies have been understating the size of their health care obligations to retirees for several years.
 If regulators require companies to revise their assumptions, Fitch warned, the result would be ''higher cost accruals that would directly reduce reported income.''
 The problem is likely to be most pronounced with automakers, which have promised health care coverage to vast numbers of current workers and retirees. 
 If General Motors increased its assumption of health care cost inflation to just 10 percent a year -- still a low rate compared with the current escalation in costs -- its health care obligations to retirees would increase by $10 billion. That, in turn, could depress operating income by about $750 million a year. 
 But the report noted that relatively large revisions might turn out to be necessary at other companies as well.
 Analysts have also noted that pension accounting still presents ample opportunities to manipulate corporate financial results unobserved, despite recent changes requiring companies to provide more detail about their pension funds. 
 Analysts have long complained that inflated earnings help to keep share prices higher than they might otherwise be, which in turn can raise executive bonuses. At the same time, advocates for retirees say the current standard motivates companies to invest in riskier assets than employees and retirees might want. 
 In addition to Northwest Airlines, companies using above-average pension investment assumptions include Baxter International, a medical products company, and Freeport McMoRan, a mining and oil exploration company, both of which assumed in 2003 that their pension funds would return an average 10 percent on investments over time. 
 General Motors and Eastman Kodak have pension-earnings assumptions that at 9 percent seem high relative to the rather conservative asset allocation of their pension funds. A spokesman for Eastman Kodak, Gerard Meuchner, said his company had not been contacted by the S.E.C. He said the earnings assumption was justified by the pension fund's above-average performance.
 A spokeswoman for Baxter said that its pension fund works on a fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30, so changes in its actuarial assumptions tend to come later than others. 
 ''Any update we would report in our next public filing,'' she said, adding that this filing would be made tomorrow. She declined to explain how Baxter arrived at its pension figures and said that the company had not been contacted by the S.E.C.
 Jack Ciesielski, publisher of The Analyst's Accounting Observer, said he was not optimistic that S.E.C. interest in pension accounting would lead to broad changes.
 Even relatively conservative companies, he said, are following rules that do not reflect financial reality. But while fundamental changes are needed, the issue is so complex, he said, ''it ain't going to happen anytime soon.'' Just about every important regulatory effort dealing with financial reporting, he said, ''is just in quicksand.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tracking the Numbers''Of the many assumptions companies make to calculate the value of future benefits in today's dollars, the assumed return on pension investments is the most controversial. The Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing the way at least three companies arrived at their assumptions.Examples of some assumed returns and equity allocations for company pension fundsNORTHWEST AIRLINESAssumed return -- 9.50%Equity allocation -- 80%EASTMAN KODAKAssumed return -- 9.00Equity allocation -- 43GENERAL MOTORS (FOCUS OF S.E.C. INQUIRY)Assumed return -- 9.00Equity allocation -- 49DELPHI (FOCUS OF S.E.C. INQUIRY)Assumed return -- 9.00Equity allocation -- 59FORD MOTOR (FOCUS OF S.E.C. INQUIRY)Assumed return -- 8.75Equity allocation -- 70(Source by Company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ETHICS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); TRENDS (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (61%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%) General Motors Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (82%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



465 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ADVOCACY GROUPS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: Interest Groups Mounting Costly Push to Get Out Vote

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS and FORD FESSENDEN; Alexis Rehrmann contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
In a presidential race whose outcome is expected to hang on turnout at the polls, an army of interest groups is pumping at least $350 million into get-out-the-vote campaigns that are rewriting the tactics of elections.
 The efforts are part of the most expensive voter-drive ground war in history. It includes the major parties and their allies, the independent but partisan groups known as 527's, whose attack advertisements have played a big role in both President Bush's and Senator John Kerry's campaigns. 
 And for the first time in a national campaign, it includes hundreds of civic organizations and deep-pocketed business interests.
 These groups, including the United States Chamber of Commerce and coalitions of charities, are using millions of dollars from donors that the groups are not required to identify. And though the groups are nonpartisan, some emphasize issues identified with one candidate or the other. 
 The efforts include door-to-door drives, mass e-mailings and telephone campaigns intended for select groups of voters. And the onslaught has been heaviest in the states that are still up for grabs.
 In Florida, for example, unions and civil rights groups are coordinating their efforts, dividing up the state by precinct to reach as many voters as they can. But the fervor has even reached Baghdad, where a Republican lobbyist is trying to help an estimated 100,000 employees of American contractors in the Persian Gulf vote in time to be counted. 
 Unlike the major parties and the 527's, the nonpartisan groups are not bound by federal election law that requires them to say where the money comes from. 
 ''We have no disclosure,'' said William C. Miller, the national political director of the Chamber of Commerce, which has been trying to reach potential voters with mass e-mailings.
 And unlike the major parties and the 527's, the nonpartisan groups cannot promote a candidate or make political statements without endangering their tax status. But they can have much the same effect by emphasizing ''hot button'' issues that may tend to help a particular candidate, or by simply turning out groups that tend to vote overwhelmingly for one party or the other.
 The members of a new coalition of charities called the National Voice, for example, are pumping $80 million into motivating voters who are more likely to help Mr. Kerry. In Highland, N.Y., Sister Adrian Hofstetter, an 85-year-old Dominican nun, is using National Voice's Internet program to call minorities and young residents in central Florida to encourage them to vote. ''About half of them were very receptive,'' she said. ''They thanked me for calling.''
 The Chamber of Commerce's pro-business e-mailings appear to be more helpful to President Bush. One energy company was so excited by the appeal that it gave $250,000 this week, the group said.
 In eastern Iowa, Republican manufacturers have joined the Prosperity Project of a pro-business organization to appeal directly to workers through e-mail messages and fliers stuffed in paycheck envelopes. The literature links voting to job security.
 Voters have mixed reactions to the barrage. Many said in recent interviews that they enjoyed the opportunity for a bit of doorstep discourse with recruiters. But others said they were concerned about a loss of privacy and tired of being increasingly pushed to vote early by absentee ballot. Political operatives are even gathering completed absentee ballots in many swing states.
 ''I didn't want to vote absentee; they talked me into it,'' said Janice Burgess, 72, a retired printer in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, referring to two Democratic canvassers. As it happened, she failed to sign the ballot submission, meaning it cannot be counted. A county worker pointed out the error, so she will go to a polling place on Election Day after all to cast her vote for Mr. Kerry.
 Many of these tactics were used in 2000, but the scale and aggressiveness of this year's ground war has far surpassed even the expectations of the presidential campaigns. 
 The nonpartisan groups and the 527's alone are spending at least $350 million this year to increase the turnout, which could exceed 121 million. That spending is several times what it was four years ago, when 105 million votes were cast, according to those who are raising the money.
 Each side is accusing the other of crossing the line into fraud, though election officials believe a handful of recent incidents were isolated. In one, Charles E. Coulson, the prosecutor in Lake County, Ohio, said an inquiry had found 65 voters who said political operatives had tricked them into signing requests for absentee ballots. The campaign workers, they said, misrepresented the forms as requests for sample ballots or permission to plant a yard sign. 
 Each side is also watching the other for signs of advantage. When unions in Cedar Rapids took advantage of an Iowa law that let them set up voting booths at a Teamster's hall on Oct. 10 to collect early votes, a Republican monitor, Bill Vernon, was there taking notes. He said he was looking for a surge in Democratic registrants that would require an offsetting effort by the Republicans.
 The major parties and the political groups deny promoting overzealousness by their recruits but acknowledge that the voter-drives are vital.
 ''Get-out-the-vote will decide the outcome of the election,'' said Karen Hicks, the national field director of the Democratic National Committee. ''We knocked on over a million targeted doors last Saturday and are making record numbers of phone calls and visits every day.''
 Republican operatives agree that the presidential race has come down to turnout and say they are matching Democrats step by step. ''We have neighbors talking to neighbors, and that's the way to win a close race,'' said Terry Nelson, national political director of the Bush campaign.
 Win or lose the White House, the groups that are helping the campaigns vow to become fixtures on the political scene, and their most potent influence may not even be in national races. They are also getting involved in local campaigns, in which they could have a huge impact for years to come.
 In Florida, a national group called the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or Acorn, set out to do just that this November by putting a proposal for a minimum-wage increase on the ballot. It formed an affiliate called Floridians for All and quickly collected the required signatures. The effort went on to register 90,000 new low-income and minority voters.
 ''I believe in the minimum-wage effort,'' said one donor, Martin Levin, a trial lawyer who has also given money to Mr. Kerry. But he added: ''I felt the need to do whatever I could to get George Bush not re-elected.''
 Floridians for All is typical of dozens of groups that are playing a powerful role in the presidential race, even though their only connection to Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry is through the voters they are trying to motivate.
 The groups' involvement in the presidential race is receiving mixed results. On one hand they are engaging people in the political process and supporting elections with money that does not carry the whiff of party contributions. But on the other, their funds are more difficult to trace, and many are operating outside the 2002 McCain-Feingold campaign finance act, which sought to control election spending by banning unlimited contributions to the parties. Project Vote, the charitable arm of Acorn, will spend at least $16 million in crucial states this year; it spent $1 million in 2000.
 ''How much money has been pumped into this, we don't have any idea,'' said Kent Cooper, co-founder of PoliticalMoneyLine.com, which tracks political spending.
 Like most of these groups, the Chamber of Commerce is not required to name its patrons, but Floridians for All is, because Florida law considers the group a political action committee. 
 An examination of its finances shows that the group has gathered significant support from tax-exempt charities that have not traditionally been big givers to either party. The Solidago Foundation of Northampton, Mass., which supports social environmental causes, gave $40,000, while the Tides Foundation, of San Francisco, another backer of social causes, has donated $165,000.
 Floridians for All's other benefactors, state records show, include Richard Foos, the founder of Rhino Records in Los Angeles, and several big unions, including the National Education Association, which gave $250,000. Mr. Levin gave $130,000 of his and his law firm's money.
 The Pew Charitable Trusts is also a big player in the voter-turnout effort. It increased its grants six-fold over 2000, mainly through its $9 million support of an effort for young voters, the New Voters Project.
 ''There was an enormous wealth created in the 90's,'' said Rebecca Rimel, the president of the Pew trusts. ''A lot of these people are saying they want to, quote, make a difference, get a return. And they're worried about the health and happiness of American democracy.''
 These donors are also attracted by the ground war campaigns being waged by the new nonpartisan groups, by the 527's (the name is taken from a section of the tax code) and by individual activists who are racing to reach voters who might be missed by the political parties.
 On a recent Sunday afternoon in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Christopher Curran loaded his Palm Pilot with the latest intelligence on Democratic voters and headed out for some ballot chasing, as it is called.
 In swing states like Iowa, few turnout drives are as sophisticated or as ambitious as that of Mr. Curran's employer, America Coming Together, or ACT, a 527 group with a $125 million budget and a force of paid workers that will swell to 45,000 on Election Day. But the tactics ACT uses are potentially as controversial as they are powerful.
 Mr. Curran tells prospective voters that he is taking a survey and gently asks how they feel about high-priced prescription drugs, or how Mr. Bush has dealt with economic issues. But Mr. Curran's true mission is to register voters and get them to vote absentee, which he does only if they indicate they might vote for Mr. Kerry.
 On porches and sidewalks, Mr. Curran then helps voters fill out forms and later delivers some of the forms to the county election office. An ACT spokeswoman, Sarah Leonard, said the group complied with election laws.
 The Republican Party and its allies are wielding another voter turnout tool: corporate communications. ''This is a huge number of people,'' says Gregory S. Casey, chief executive of the Business Industry Political Action Committee, or Bipac, which increased its spending ten-fold this election, to $5 million. The group is helping 700 companies and associations in pivotal states to persuade their employees to vote for candidates who favor business interests.
 A recent Bipac message distributed by Al-jon, a solid-waste equipment manufacturer in Ottumwa, Iowa, to its 110 workers referred to job security in every paragraph. ''Prosperity -- and job security -- don't just happen,'' the message said. ''They are the result of our free enterprise system and reasonable government policies. So every vote counts.''
 The turnout campaigns are concerned not just with voters in the United States. Timothy B. Mills, a lobbyist working on Iraq reconstruction issues for the law firm of Patton Boggs and a former vice president of the Republican National Lawyers Association, has organized the effort in Baghdad to help the estimated 100,000 contractor employees in the region cast their votes. One plan is to send the ballots en masse to an office in Washington, where they would be separated and redirected to the appropriate local election site.
 Both Republicans and Democrats are also using registration forms and other voting records to identify the voters they want to reach. Election officials say the law compels them to release the documents. But it is not just the names that the political operatives want; the records identify those who vote only sporadically, a priority group in this election.
 ''Most voters are unaware that their data is a matter of public record and is being transferred and enhanced by political campaign to create elaborate voter profiles,'' says Kim Alexander, president of the California Voter Foundation. 
 Some officials worry that the aggressive pursuit of voters could backfire. ''People are just ticked off,'' said Denise Lamb, the director of elections in New Mexico. ''I'm worried they're going to be so sick of this, they will put a pox on the election and decide to just not show up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Angelina Vega, left, and Anna Wagner of the New Voters Project, visited Laqueatia Anderson in Nevada. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
 Darrell Nightingale, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was able to vote last week at his union hall, under the direction of an election official, Allan Avis. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Voting Requirements and Voters; Absentee Voting ; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Electronic Mail; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Privacy; States (US); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%) United States Chamber of Commerce; National Choice

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Michael Moss; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (86%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (65%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (54%) Florida; Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



466 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: ROAD TO WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3103 words

HEADLINE: Poor Intelligence Misled Troops About Risk of Drawn-Out War

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
In early 2003, as the clock ticked down toward the war with Iraq, C.I.A. officials met with senior military commanders at Camp Doha, Kuwait, to discuss their latest ideas for upending Saddam Hussein's government. 
 Intelligence officials were convinced that American soldiers would be greeted warmly when they pushed into southern Iraq, so a C.I.A. operative suggested sneaking hundreds of small American flags into the country for grateful Iraqis to wave at their liberators. The agency would capture the spectacle on film and beam it throughout the Arab world. It would be the ultimate information operation.
 Lt. Gen. David McKiernan, the commander of allied ground forces, quickly objected. To avoid being perceived as an occupying army, American forces had been instructed not to brandish the flag. 
 The idea was dropped, but the C.I.A.'s optimism remained.
 The agency believed that many of the towns were ''ours,'' said one former staff officer who attended the session. ''At first, it was going to be U.S. flags,'' he said, ''and then it was going to be Iraqi flags. The flags are probably still sitting in a bag somewhere. One of the towns where they said we would be welcomed was Nasiriya, where Marines faced some of the toughest fighting in the war.''
 Just as the intelligence about Iraq's presumed stockpiles of unconventional weapons proved wrong, so did much of the information provided to those prosecuting the war and planning the occupation.
 In a major misreading of Iraq's strategy, the C.I.A. failed to predict the role played by Saddam Hussein's paramilitary forces, which mounted the main attacks on American troops in southern Iraq and surprised them in bloody battles. 
 The agency was aware that Iraq was awash in arms but failed to identify the huge caches of weapons that were hidden in mosques and schools to supply enemy fighters.
 On postwar Iraq, American intelligence agencies underestimated the decrepit state of Iraq's infrastructure, which became a major challenge in reconstructing the nation, and concluded erroneously that Iraq's police had had extensive professional training.
 And while intelligence experts noted an insurgency in its catalog of possible dangers, it did not highlight that threat. 
 The National Intelligence Council, senior experts from the intelligence community, prepared an analysis in January 2003 on postwar Iraq that discussed the risk of an insurgency in the last paragraph of its 38-page assessment. ''There was never a buildup of intelligence that says: 'It's coming. It's coming. It's coming. This is the end you should prepare for,''' said Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the former head of the United States Central Command and now retired, referring to the insurgency. ''It did not happen. Never saw it. It was never offered.''
 The Central Intelligence Agency has come under harsh criticism for its failings on Iraq's weapons and the Sept. 11 terror attacks, and critics have urged that it be overhauled as part of a broad reform of the nation's intelligence community. 
 The agency declined requests for interviews for this article and declined to respond to written questions submitted to its chief spokesman. 
 Richard J. Kerr, a former deputy director who was asked by the agency to review its intelligence analysis on the Iraq war, said in an interview that much American intelligence on postwar Iraq was on the mark, particularly the assessment predicting the resentment of Iraqis if the United States did not transfer power quickly to a new Iraqi government. Still, he acknowledged some deficiencies.
 ''Intelligence assessments on the likely Iraqi impatience with an extended U.S. presence and the role of the army in Iraqi society were particularly prescient,'' Mr. Kerr said.
 ''The intelligence accurately forecast the reactions of the ethnic and tribal factions in Iraq,'' he said. ''These positive comments, however, cannot gloss over the fact that Iraq revealed some serious systemic problems in the intelligence community. Collection was poor. Too much emphasis was placed on current intelligence and there was too little research on important social, political and cultural issues.''

Trying to Catch Up
 Despite more than a decade of antagonism between Saddam Hussein's government and the United States, the Bush administration was operating with limited information when it began to consider the invasion of Iraq. After the 1991 Persian Gulf war, collecting intelligence on Iraq was not always the top priority for American spy agencies, which were burdened by a multitude of potential crises and threats.
 Iraq was considered a Tier2 country. North Korea, in contrast, was Tier1. As the agencies saw it, North Korea possessed an active nuclear weapons program and a large conventional army in striking range of South Korea and the American forces there. Iraq was seen more as a gathering threat. 
 The months before the war were a scramble for more intelligence. The American military did its best to fill the gaps, using Predator drones, U-2 spy planes and other surveillance systems. The land forces command printed 100,000 maps of the southern Iraq oilfields, which the Marines were to secure. Detailed block by block analyses were prepared for downtown Baghdad.
 Iraq, in intelligence parlance, was a ''glass ball environment,'' meaning the weather was often conducive to collecting images from above. 
 Much of the intelligence was derived from reconnaissance systems, not from operatives on the ground. With few spies inside Iraq, the agency relied on defectors, detainees, opposition groups and foreign government services, according to a Senate report.
 ''Some critics have claimed during the prewar period, we did not have many Iraqi sources, '' James L. Pavitt, former deputy director for operations for the agency, said in June in a speech to the Foreign Policy Association. 
 ''We certainly did not have enough,'' he said. ''Until we put people on the ground in northern Iraq, we had less than a handful. As I mentioned before, the operating environment was tremendously prohibitive, and developing the necessary trust with those Iraqis who had access was extraordinarily difficult in light of the risks they faced. Once on the ground, however, our officers recruited literally dozens of agents -- some of whom paid the ultimate price for their allegiance to us.''
 The C.I.A. inserted agents in the southern oil fields shortly before the war. American intelligence officers obtained the telephone numbers of Iraqi generals and called to encourage them not to fight. Fearful that the calls were a loyalty test by Saddam Hussein, some changed their numbers, which hindered their efforts to talk to each other when the war was under way. 
 The United States gained a detailed understanding of Iraq's oil infrastructure and obtained a secret map of Iraq's Baghdad defense plan. The C.I.A. also helped debunk one threat that the military had worried about: the possibility that Mr. Hussein's government would flood the country to thwart an allied advance.
 The agency, though, turned out to have a less clear understanding of what the United States would face once it invaded Iraq, or of Mr. Hussein's military strategy. In January 2003, the National Intelligence Council issued its assessment of what might happen after the dictator was ousted. The report cautioned that building democracy in Iraq would be difficult because of its authoritarian history. And it warned of the risk that the American forces would be seen as occupiers.
 ''Attitudes toward a foreign military force would depend largely on the progress made in transferring power, as well as on the degree to which that force were perceived as providing necessary security and fostering reconstruction and a return to prosperity,'' it said. The report also noted that quick restoration of services would be important to maintain the support of the Iraqi public.

Broader Picture Was Missing
 But the analysis was less prescient on other points. 
 The study underestimated the fragile state of Iraq's infrastructure, suggesting it could be fixed quickly if it were not extensively damaged in the fighting. ''Iraqis have restored their physical infrastructure quickly in previous wars,'' it stated. The United States chose not to attack the electrical grid, knowing that it would soon need to administer and reconstruct Iraq. But the electrical system collapsed from long neglect, and difficulties in restoring the service left much of the capital in darkness and aggravated residents' fears about crime.
 In assessing potential threats, the intelligence report also gave far more weight to the possibility of score-settling among Iraqi ethnic groups than to an insurgency. The discussion of that prospect was remarkably brief.
 ''The ability of Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups to maintain a presence in northern Iraq (or more clandestinely elsewhere) would depend largely on whether a new regime were able to exert effective security and control over the entire country,'' it noted. ''In addition, rogue ex-regime elements could forge an alliance with existing terrorist organizations or act independently to wage guerrilla warfare against a new government or coalition forces.''
 Mr. Kerr, the former C.I.A. official, said the agency's regional experts were more concerned than the assessment by the National Intelligence Council about the potential threat of guerrilla attacks by paramilitary forces after Mr. Hussein's government was toppled, particularly if American troops stayed in Iraq for a significant period of time. But he acknowledged that the assessments did not anticipate the sort of virulent insurgency that Americans forces now face in Iraq. 
 ''They did believe there would be a fairly significant stay-behind group of Saddam loyalists and fedayeen that would attract outside support,'' he said. ''But it would be stretching it to reach too far down this line. I could not justify saying that they predicted the war as it has developed.''

Gaps Become Apparent
 From the start of the war, it was clear that some of the intelligence was off.
 On March 19, 2003, for example, George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, told the White House that he had firm evidence that Mr. Hussein and his family were in a suburb near Baghdad known as Dora Farms. The Iraqi leader and his two sons were thought to be hiding in a concrete bunker; the C.I.A. provided exact coordinates.
 Lt. Gen. Michael (Buzz) Moseley, the air war commander, who was at an air base in Saudi Arabia, quickly developed a plan for stealth fighters to drop satellite-guided bombs, followed by cruise missiles. The planes hit their targets. But when American forces got to Dora Farms after the fall of Baghdad, they discovered there was no underground bunker at that site, General Moseley said in an interview last year. 
 The Iraqis responded to the attack by firing missiles at American forces in Kuwait. American intelligence learned that a small number of oil wells had been set on fire, so the land war was accelerated. 
 Senior military officers and intelligence analysts had expected that the Iraqi leader would center his defense in Baghdad, and planned for a decisive battle against his Republican Guard divisions and special military and paramilitary units in the capital. The American forces discovered in the first days of the war that the Iraqis had a different strategy. The Marines learned this the hard way. 
 Task Force Tarawa, a Marine unit assigned to secure the bridges in eastern Nasiriya, was told that a C.I.A. source had reported that Iraq's 11th Infantry Division, which was to guard the bridges, would probably surrender. Convinced that Nasiriya would be a relatively easy fight, senior Marine commanders did not make any reconnaissance drones available. 
 The fight in Nasiriya turned out to be one of the toughest of the war. Thousands of paramilitary fighters, the Saddam Fedayeen, had taken up positions there and in the other southern cities, including Samawa and Najaf, determined to put down any Shiite rebellion and to draw the Americans into bloody bouts of urban warfare. In Nasiriya, the Marines' mission was complicated when the Army 507th Maintenance Battalion -- made famous when Pfc. Jessica Lynch was taken prisoner -- stumbled into the city. The Marines suffered 18 dead the first day, some by American fire, after it ran into hordes of Iraqi fighters.
 ''All indications were that it would not be much of a fight, that the Iraqis were probably going to capitulate,'' recalled Joseph Apodaca, a retired lieutenant colonel who served as the intelligence officer for the task force that fought in Nasiriya. ''After that contact in Nasiriya, I lost quite a bit of faith in national-level reporting.''
 Flawed intelligence led to other units' being caught by surprise, too. In Samawa, the Army's Third Squadron, Seventh Cavalry Regiment had been told, based on intelligence reports, to be prepared to conduct a parade to show solidarity with the inhabitants. 
 Sgt. First Class Anthony Broadhead, who led a group of Bradley fighting vehicles and M-1 tanks into the city, was standing in the hatch of his tank and waving when the Iraqis responded by shooting. A fierce firefight between the soldiers and the paramilitary forces broke out.
 ''The fighting that occurred in Samawa was not with conventional Iraqi forces but with Saddam Fedayeen and Baath Party members,'' noted Lt. Col. Terry Ferrell, the unit's commander. ''In the intelligence summaries, we had heard about this type of enemy, but they had not been given any credit for being as tenacious and capable of fighting as they demonstrated not only in this battle, but in every other fight the squadron encountered.''
 The flawed information provided to the units in Nasiriya and Samawa were not the only lapses. American intelligence knew Iraq had huge quantities of conventional weapons, but did not realize that arms caches has been established in schools, hospitals and mosques as part of the strategy to turn the southern cities into bastions for the Saddam Fedayeen.
 ''What intelligence did not reveal was the magnitude of the regime's weapons holdings,'' the First Marine Division noted in its after-action report. ''Huge caches were hidden in every area of the country, but it was only after the division closed on those facilities that the full magnitude of the distribution of tons of weapons and ammunition throughout the country came to light.''
 The failure of the American intelligence agencies to detect the paramilitary forces in the south made it harder to anticipate the potential for an insurgency, Colonel Apodaca said. ''They are good at reaching into the higher levels of organizations, but those guys don't see clearly what is going on at the bottom,'' he said. 
 An American general who asked not be identified because of the sensitivity of his position said: ''I think it is safe to say we had an accurate picture of their forces in terms of their general capability and size. But we did not have a good sense of how they were intended to be used. We started out with a deficit of human intelligence, of sources inside.''

Misreading the Consequences
 Even in the last days of Mr. Hussein's government, some preliminary reports suggested that a guerrilla campaign could emerge once he was toppled. 
 On April 5, 2003, a Defense Intelligence Agency task force said the Baathists had made plans to wage a protracted guerrilla war and would form a tactical alliance with Islamic jihadists. Their goal, the task force said, was to produce casualties so that the American public would push for United States forces to quit Iraq.
 On April 9, American intelligence agencies issued a ''sense of the community'' memo -- their collective judgment -- which concluded that Baath Party cadres, Iraqi security forces and paramilitary fighters were operating independently under longstanding orders. They could be expected to fight on until they were neutralized, Saddam Hussein was killed or senior Iraqi leaders whom they respected ordered them to stop fighting. Even then, the memo said, some would fight on. 
 Later, after the fall of Baghdad, American intelligence would learn more about preparations that had been made for a guerrilla campaign. The Iraq Survey Group, which was sent to Iraq primarily to search for evidence of unconventional weapons, uncovered some documents. The papers concerning Falluja, Iraq's most volatile city, identified storage areas for weapons caches and provided the names of 75 Saddam Fedayeen and 12 suicide volunteers who were expected to join in the fight.
 The battle for the future of Iraq has only intensified as the insurgency has become entrenched. It has now taken thousands of lives, crippled reconstruction, threatened election of a new Iraqi government and forced American troops to engage in a grueling guerrilla conflict. The C.I.A. and other intelligence services are deeply involved in gathering information to help subdue the rebels controlling some of Iraq's cities, trying to fill in the gaps that existed when the Americans invaded Iraq.
 ''We understood their conventional force, their missiles programs, their air force,'' recalled Maj. Gen. James M. (Spider) Marks, now retired, who served as the chief intelligence officer for the land war command. ''The elements of power which we could assess from a distance we assessed quite well. What we missed was the fine granularity that you get from a physical presence on the ground, by interacting with the Iraqi people over the years. Since 1991, we lost our finger on the pulse of the Iraqi people and built intelligence assessments from a distance. We did not appreciate the 'fear factor' and the grip that the regime had on the people.''

'Catastrophic Success'
 Michael R. Gordon, the chief military correspondent of The Times, covered the war in Iraq and its aftermath. He reported from the allied land forces command and from several United States Army divisions. 
 Since then, he has been reporting on the conflict for a book to be published in 2005 by Pantheon Books, a unit of the Knopf Publishing Group. 
 Articles in this series on American preparations for the war and its aftermath draw on dozens of interviews with current and former military officers and occupation officials, as well as officials at the Pentagon and the White House. They also draw on government documents. 
 Christopher Mann, Jeremiah Cushman, Mike Alpern and Thomas Hommel served as researchers for this report.
 Video of Michael R. Gordon, additional photographs and previous articles in the series are online: nytimes.com/international.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AMERICANS AS LIBERATORS, APRIL 2003 -- In front of the Palestine Hotel in Baghdad, Lance Cpl. Shawn Hicks was greeted with hugs from Iraqis jubilant at the coalition's victory over Saddam Hussein. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
 AMERICANS AS TARGETS, JULY 2003 -- Angry Iraqis stoned an American vehicle after it was hit by a grenade in downtown Baghdad. Such broad demonstrations have faded, but guerrilla attacks have spread. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); BASEBALL (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); POLITICS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); TERRORISM (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); TOURNAMENTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RELIGION (50%) Baseball; Playoff Games; Surveys and Series; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Intelligence Services; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Elections; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government ; Police; Terrorism

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%) New York Yankees; Boston Red Sox; Central Intelligence Agency; National Intelligence Council; Defense Intelligence Agency

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); RICK PERRY (77%) Curt Schilling; Tyler Kepner; Michael R Gordon; Saddam Hussein; Tommy R (Gen) Franks; Richard J Kerr; James (Maj Gen) (Ret) Marks

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%) Iraq; Nasiriya (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



467 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: EARLY ANALYSES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: 'A Long, Difficult and Probably Turbulent Process'

 BODY:
In January 2003, the National Intelligence Council issued a 38-page report, ''Principal Challenges in Post-Saddam Iraq,'' which chronicled a long list of potential problems. It noted, but did not emphasize, the prospects for an insurgency. The discussion of this threat was left to the last paragraph of the report. The key judgments of the report are the following: 
 The building of an Iraqi democracy would be a long, difficult and probably turbulent process with potential for backsliding into Iraq's tradition of authoritarianism. Iraqi political culture does not foster liberalism or democracy. ... The principal positive elements in any effort at democratization would be the current relative weakness of political Islam in Iraq and the contributions that could be made by 4 million Iraqi exiles. Iraq would be unlikely to split apart, but a post-Saddam authority would face a deeply divided society with a significant chance that domestic groups would engage in violent conflict with each other unless an occupying force prevented them from doing so. 
 Sunni Arabs would face possible loss of their longstanding privileged position, while Shia would seek power commensurate with their majority status. Kurds could try to take advantage of Saddam's departure by seizing some of the large northern oil fields, a move that would elicit forceful responses from Sunni Arabs and from Turkey. Score-settling would occur throughout Iraq.
 Iraq's large petroleum resources, its greatest asset, would make economic reconstruction less difficult than political transformation. Iraq's economic options would remain few and narrow without forgiveness of debt, a reduction in reparations from the previous Persian Gulf war or something akin to a Marshall plan. If they remained relatively unscathed and any administrative issues involving organization of Iraq's oil industry were resolved, it would be possible to increase oil production in three months from 2.4 million barrels per day to 3.1 million barrels. 
 The foreign and security policies of a new Iraqi government necessarily would defer heavily in the near term to the interests of the United States, United Nations or an international coalition. But it would also reflect many continuing Iraqi perceptions. Unless guaranteed a security umbrella against its strategic rivals, Iraq's interest in acquiring weapons of mass destruction would eventually revive.
 A new Iraqi government would have little interest in supporting terrorism, although strong Iraqi support for the Palestinians would continue. If Baghdad were unable to exert control over the Iraqi countryside, Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups could operate from remote areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); OIL EXTRACTION (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); RELIGION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) Intelligence Services; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: National Intelligence Council

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



468 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: WOMEN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Gains for Kerry Among Women in Electorate

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry appears to have reversed his slide among women who are voters and has taken a lead over President Bush in this crucial category, new polls show.
 In early September, Mr. Bush led Mr. Kerry among women, 48 percent to 43 percent in the CBS News poll. As of Sunday, in The New York Times/CBS News poll, Mr. Kerry was leading among women who are registered voters, 50 percent to 40 percent. Other polls show Mr. Kerry with a smaller lead among women, but a lead nonetheless. 
 The Times/CBS poll showed Mr. Kerry solidifying an already strong lead among single women. It showed him pulling ahead of Mr. Bush among women over 50, though not by much, after being behind.
 One of the few categories of women in which Mr. Bush leads Mr. Kerry is among those who are married, who tend to vote Republican. But Mr. Kerry has shrunk the gap. As of Sept. 6, Mr. Bush had an edge of 27 percentage points over Mr. Kerry among married women; as of Sunday the gap had shrunk to 7 points.
 Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said Mr. Kerry had gained among women by focusing on economic issues and particularly health care in his stump speech and in his advertising in swing states.
 ''I'd say probably half the ads running right now coming out of Kerry and the D.N.C. are health care ads,'' Ms. Greenberg said, referring to the Democratic National Committee. ''I think that's a response to seeing that he's weaker with women than he should be.''
 On Tuesday, in an overt appeal to women, both campaigns started to broadcast new television commercials featuring mothers and their daughters against the backdrop of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 The advertisement for Mr. Bush features an Ohio teenager, Ashley Faulkner, whose mother was killed in the World Trade Center. Ms. Faulkner met Mr. Bush at a recent rally in Ohio, where he hugged her. ''All he wants to do is make sure I'm safe,'' she says into the camera.
 The 60-second commercial is being shown in nine swing states at a cost of $14 million, the most money invested in a single commercial in this election, according to the Progress for America Voter Fund, the 527 advocacy group that sponsored it.
 The Kerry campaign's commercial features Kristen Breitweiser, whose husband was killed in the World Trade Center. In the commercial, Mrs. Breitweiser criticizes Mr. Bush, for whom she and her husband voted in 2000, for opposing the 9/11 commission that investigated the attacks. ''We are no safer today,'' she says. The spot ends with a picture of her with her daughter as she adds, ''I want to look in my daughter's eyes and know that she is safe.''
 The Kerry campaign declined to disclose the cost of the commercial and where it was running.
 The ads also reflect intense competition for suburban women, who tend to be married with children. The Times/CBS poll shows that in the last six weeks, Mr. Kerry has improved his standing with these swing voters. In September, Mr. Bush was beating Mr. Kerry by 10 percentage points among registered suburban women. The poll showed Mr. Kerry leading by eight percentage points.
 ''It comes down to suburban women,'' said Lori Wiegel, a Republican pollster. ''And while they're voting for Kerry to some extent, it's the margin by which they'll vote for Kerry that matters.'' 
 Ms. Lake said that another crucial voting bloc for Mr. Kerry was unmarried women, who were largely disengaged from the process. In 2000, she said, 22 million unmarried women, some of whom were registered and some of whom were not, did not vote. ''If unmarried women in Florida, for example, had simply participated at the statewide average, Gore would have won Florida by 63,000 votes,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); TERRORISM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Women; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Katharine Q Seelye; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



469 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Blends His Attacks on Bush Record

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: WILKES-BARRE, Pa., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry came here Tuesday to discuss Social Security and fiscal discipline, accusing President Bush of putting at risk ''the retirement of millions of people in our country'' and ''the future of our children.'' But he began with an assault on the failure to capture Osama bin Laden and a vow to ''make a fresh start with new credibility in Iraq.''
 On Monday in Tampa, Fla., the opening page and a half of Mr. Kerry's six-page speech on health care were filled with facts and flourishes not about the flu vaccine, but the war in Iraq. And the other day in an economically struggling section of Ohio, Mr. Kerry declared: ''We all want the same thing. We want our country to be respected in the world. We want good jobs, and we all want to beat the New York Yankees.'' 
 Setting aside the dark humor of a Red Sox fan, Mr. Kerry's recent language reveals his decidedly dual focus in these final days of the campaign: trying to raise profound doubts about Mr. Bush's stewardship on both the domestic and national security fronts in order to make the argument for change.
 There are several reasons for the strategy, which has crept in steadily since late summer but seems increasingly stark -- and occasionally awkward -- as Mr. Kerry has sprinkled attacks on Mr. Bush's Iraq policy into a series of speeches on domestic issues this week. 
 Amid relentless efforts by Republicans to undermine Mr. Kerry's credentials to be commander in chief, the senator's aides say his best defense is a bold offense, ripping apart Mr. Bush's wartime leadership.
 A litany of troubles in Iraq have provided Mr. Kerry with fresh ammunition, and his strong performance in the first televised debate, with its focus on foreign policy, helped erode the Republican edge on these issues, though polls show that voters still trust Mr. Bush more when it comes to fighting terrorism.
 But perhaps most of all, the campaign now believes the twin battlefields of Iraq and the economy build the best, broad argument against a second term for Mr. Bush: ''more of the same'' for four more years versus, in the latest in a long string of Kerry slogans, ''a fresh start.''
 ''It will be some combination of Iraq and domestic issues each and every day,'' Mike McCurry, Mr. Kerry's senior spokesman, said as Mr. Kerry flew to Pennsylvania on Tuesday morning from Florida. 
 ''People are absorbing all of this simultaneously,'' Mr. McCurry said. ''We have to be on both of those subjects and link them with this fundamental premise: It's more of the same if you want Bush, you're going to have the same mistakes repeated over and over again. If you want to see things different in Iraq, if you want to see things different at home, you've got a fresh start with Kerry.''
 So, even as Mr. Kerry devoted the bulk of his day to accusing Mr. Bush of planning to dismantle Social Security, his campaign introduced two new advertisements about Iraq and security. 
 In one, a woman whose husband was killed in the Sept. 11 attacks said she voted for Mr. Bush in 2000, but believes ''we are no safer today,'' adding ominously, ''I want to look in my daughter's eyes and know that she is safe, and that is why I am voting for John Kerry.''
 The other highlights ''the mess in Iraq created by George Bush,'' including kidnappings, hostage-takings and the death of more than 1,000 American soldiers.
 In Wilkes-Barre, the seat of a county the Democrats won handily in 2000, Mr. Kerry spoke at the same movie house where Mr. Bush attacked him as a ''tax-and-spend liberal'' two weeks ago. On the 72nd anniversary of a Pennsylvania campaign stop by Franklin D. Roosevelt, the architect of Social Security, Mr. Kerry drew parallels between Mr. Bush and Herbert Hoover's Depression presidency, saying, ''It's deja vu all over again.''
 He accused Mr. Bush of harboring secret plans to privatize Social Security, which he called ''our sacred compact between generations.'' He also said Mr. Bush was running up the federal deficit at the very time that the looming retirement of the baby boom generation would place new strains on the system. 
 He said the president had created a $20,000 ''birth tax'' on today's children by running up the deficit. If elected, Mr. Kerry vowed, he would slash 100,000 government contracts, consolidate administrative departments and reduce pork-barrel projects, after pressing Congress for line-item veto power. 
 ''His four-year spending spree on tax giveaways for millionaires has undermined the hopes of middle-class families and it has put Social Security on a dangerous road,'' Mr. Kerry said of Mr. Bush. ''This is what the president must mean when he talks about his 'ownership society': When it comes to your retirement, you're on your own.''
 The Bush campaign decried the speech as ''scare tactics'' and ''grasping rhetoric.''
 ''Only John Kerry could claim that his proposals of at least $2.2 trillion in new government spending are fiscally responsible,'' said a Bush spokesman, Steve Schmidt. ''Kerry has demonstrated over the past week that there is no line of decency that he won't cross and no attack that is too hypocritical.''
 Before he got to Social Security, Mr. Kerry was talking about terror, saying Mr. Bush ''made significant boasts about chasing after Osama bin Laden and then only months later said, 'I don't know where he is and I don't really care and I don't really think about him that much.''' 
 As Mr. Kerry told the crowd, in a transitional phrase between seemingly disparate topics, ''My friends, a president has to be able to do more than one thing at a time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry at a rally last night in Dayton, Ohio, after campaigning in Florida and Pennsylvania. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); BASEBALL (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); VACCINES (56%); INFLUENZA (55%); ANTIVIRALS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Social Security (US); Terrorism; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%) Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004



470 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Gay Episcopal Bishop Sees Glint of Hope in Church Report

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
The Episcopal bishop at the center of the Anglican Communion's global battle over homosexuality said that at first he was stunned by a church report issued on Monday recommending a moratorium on gay bishops and on blessings of same-sex couples.
 The report ''took my breath away,'' Bishop V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire, the Anglican Communion's first openly gay bishop, said in an interview yesterday in New York. ''Partly because it made me feel lonely. I had hoped not to be the only person on the hot seat for too long.'' 
 By yesterday, however, Bishop Robinson said he was feeling hopeful. After parsing the fine print in the Windsor Report, the conclusion of a yearlong search for reconciliation in the worldwide Anglican Communion, he and some Episcopal bishops are concluding that they can accept its recommendations. 
 The careful wording in the report leaves ''wiggle room'' to continue blessing same-sex couples, the bishop said. And he said that the report asked the Episcopal Church USA to express regret for the turmoil caused by his elevation to bishop -- not regret for the decision itself.
 ''It is an exceptional document and offers us a way forward,'' he said. ''It will be a way forward if we all say yes to it. But we've got to stay at the table.''
 It is still uncertain whether everybody will remain in their chairs. The reaction to the report from Anglican conservatives is far less sunny. Some of them had looked for the report to recommend that the Episcopal Church and Bishop Robinson repent or be expelled from the Communion.
 ''Where is the language of rebuke?'' Archbishop Peter Akinola, the primate of Nigeria, said in an statement released on Tuesday. ''It fails to confront the reality that a small, economically privileged group of people has sought to subvert the Christian faith and impose their new and false doctrine on the wider community of faithful believers.''
 The Anglican Communion is an affiliation of churches with roots in the Church of England and a common allegiance to the archbishop of Canterbury. It includes about 77 million members in 38 provinces, or regions, around the world, of which the Episcopal Church is the American branch. 
 Liberals in the Communion, who are mainly churches in the developed world, are far outnumbered by conservatives, who believe that Scripture bars homosexual sex. While the Episcopal Church has 2.3 million members, the Anglican Church of Nigeria has 17 million.
 The Episcopal Church voted last year to ordain Bishop Robinson and permit dioceses to celebrate rites of blessing for gay couples. The Diocese of New Westminster in Canada also performs gay rites.
 A year ago, the archbishop of Canterbury appointed a commission of 17 Anglican bishops and theologians to recommend mechanisms to stave off schism.
 The crisis over homosexuality has united conservatives in the Episcopal Church and the Church of England with those in Africa, Asia and Latin America. In the last year, some African bishops have claimed jurisdiction over conservative American parishes that wish to break from their Episcopal bishops. In the Windsor Report issued on Monday, the commission called for that to stop, and for the African bishops to ''express regret'' for violating the church's traditional polity.
 The report appears to have revealed divisions in the conservative ranks. Two conservative archbishops, one from Africa and one from Latin America, served on the commission and signed the report. Archbishop Akinola, however, called the report ''patronizing'' and ''bewildering.'' He said he would not halt ministering to American parishes until the Episcopal Church repented and reformed.
 The commission heard testimony from many in the church. Bishop Robinson said he had ''begged'' the commission to be allowed to speak, but they refused to hear either him or members of the Diocese of New Hampshire who elected him.
 ''It is very difficult to always be talked about and not talked with,'' he said.
 Bishop Robinson said he did regret the turmoil his election to bishop had caused. But he said he would not consider stepping down because he said he and others believed his election to the episcopate to be the work of the Holy Spirit. On gay blessings, the report calls for a ''moratorium on all such public rites.'' But Bishop Robinson, like several American bishops, said the language was nuanced so that it still allowed priests to continue to bless gay couples in private, as long as the bishop did not ''authorize or develop'' a ''public rite.''
 ''So there's some wiggle room there,'' Bishop Robinson said, ''and I believe that priests will do what priests have always done, and that is tend to the pastoral needs of their congregations, and for some of them that will include blessings.''
 He said he knew qualified gay and lesbian priests who might have sought election as bishops. Bishop Robinson, who lives with his partner of 17 years, pointed out that the language in the report specified a moratorium not on all gay bishops, but only on those ''living in a same-gender union.'' But he said the report would probably have a ''chilling effect'' on all gay candidates and the dioceses that would like to consider them.
 The report also says that given the ''widespread unacceptability'' of Bishop Robinson's ministry in some provinces, the archbishop of Canterbury should ''exercise very considerable caution in inviting or admitting him to the councils of the Communion.'' The most significant coming meeting is the Lambeth Conference, which will be held next in 2008.
 Bishop Robinson said he had expected such a recommendation, and had written to the archbishop offering to attend the Lambeth Conference in ''a diminished capacity'' not as a bishop, but perhaps as an observer or nonvoting member.
 He said he was not so much optimistic, as hopeful, that one day he would not be the only openly gay bishop. ''I am so grateful it's a moratorium,'' he said, referring to the term in the report, ''because a moratorium comes to an end.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire, the Anglican Communion's first openly gay bishop, in an interview yesterday. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%) Clergy; Homosexuality; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: Episcopal Church Usa; Episcopal Church Usa

PERSON: Laurie Goodstein; V Gene (Bishop) Robinson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (90%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



471 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian President Is Sworn In, Promising a Cleaner Government

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, a former general, took the oath of office on Wednesday as the first directly elected president of Indonesia, and in a businesslike address promised a new era of cleaner government and renewed growth for the nation, Southeast Asia's largest economy. 
 ''Indonesia will be a democratic country, open, modern, pluralistic and tolerant,'' he said from the glistening halls at the presidential palace. ''We will try hard to form a clean and good government.'' 
 A soldier, with two stints at American staff colleges, and substantial government experience, General Yudhoyono is Indonesia's first professionally qualified president in the six years since General Suharto fell. 
 By just speaking live from the palace with his vice president, Jusuf Kalla, beside him, General Yudhoyono, 55, set a markedly different tone from his reticent predecessor, Megawati Sukarnoputri,whom he defeated in a landslide last month. 
 Immediately after the president's speech, the new presidential spokesman, Andi Mallarangeng, wearing a suit and tie, stepped up to television microphones to spin General Yudhoyono's words, adding another more contemporary element. 
 The elevation of General Yudhoyono, who was little known as a serious political contender until this year, has been acclaimed in the West and in some parts of the Muslim world as an example of the compatibility of democracy and Islam.
 But some secular Indonesians complained that the swearing in at the vast hall of Parliament's People's Consultative Assembly was dominated by the assembly leader, Hidayat Nur Wahid, who spoke far longer than the new president. 
 The assembly leader is the founder of the new conservative Islamic Justice Party for Prosperity, whose platform calls for the establishment of an Islamic state in secular Indonesia.
 Speaking at the palace, General Yudhoyono said the government would soon ''stimulate the economy'' and would ''increase productivity,'' though he provided no details. He said he would personally lead the fight against corruption. 
 Three major terror attacks in the last two years by a homegrown extremist Islamic group, Jemaah Islamiyah, have made ordinary Indonesians more concerned about security, and General Yudhoyono appealed for people to ''work together'' with the government on the problem. 
 In an effort to calm soaring expectations, General Yudhoyono said, ''I remind you not all the country's problems can be solved in 100 days.'' 
 Leaders from neighboring countries -- Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei, Australia and East Timor -- attended the swearing in, an unusual show of solidarity. 
 The American ambassador to Indonesia, Ralph L. Boyce, said that General Yudhoyono could restore Indonesia, a resource-rich nation of 220 million people, to its rightful place as a leader in the region.
 ''He has a golden opportunity to send Indonesia into a dramatic new direction,'' Mr. Boyce said. For all the good will, General Yudhoyono was immediately embroiled in disputes over his much-awaited cabinet. 
 Under pressure from the Islamic Justice Party, General Yudhoyono dropped his original choice for finance minister, Sri Mulyani, who had been the director for Asia-Pacific at the International Monetary Fund in Washington. He also backed away from a tough lawyer, Marsillam Simandjuntak, as attorney general. 
 For his personal staff, General Yudhoyono has chosen a group of young aides who are free from the old-style clubby Jakarta politics to lead what is being called a West Wing of the presidential palace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (61%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); CORRUPTION (50%) Politics and Government; Elections; United States International Relations

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (93%) Jane Perlez; Susilo Bambang (Pres) Yudhoyono; Ralph L (Amb) Boyce

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); ASIA (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%) Indonesia; Singapore; Malaysia; Brunei; Australia; East Timor; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



472 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra Finds Success Staying Light on Its Feet

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE

 BODY:
There is a lot of disagreement about symphony orchestras these days. Some say they are in crisis; some say they are doing fine. Some say a certain music director is a washout; some say he achieves great things with his players. But there is one orchestra very few people seem to disagree about. In the last couple of years, everyone I know, it seems, has come back from hearing the Orchestra of St. Luke's with great excitement about the quality of the playing and the experience. And each time it has been a different concert.
 ''Well, yes, but. ,'' say the purveyors of conventional wisdom. You can't compare a chamber orchestra made up of freelancers, which hires itself out to other artists and presenters, with the pantheon of the great orchestras with 52-week seasons, hundreds of musicians and long histories -- the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony. 
 To play devil's advocate: why not? 
 And to be a bit perverse about it: is it because the Philadelphia Orchestra has been embroiled in contentious labor negotiations, the Chicago Symphony is struggling with a deficit and the Orchestra of St. Luke's has a balanced budget and a long history of tranquil labor relations?
 Or because in a back-to-back comparison of Rimsky-Korsakov's ''Capriccio Espagnol'' played last summer by the New York Philharmonic (at Avery Fisher Hall) and the Orchestra of St. Luke's (at the Caramoor festival in Katonah, N.Y.), it was St. Luke's that made the piece sparkle and come to life? 
 As the powers that be in the orchestra world wring their hands in a putative search for new models for the future, St. Luke's -- which opens its 30th season tonight with a concert at Carnegie Hall with the countertenor David Daniels -- presents an interesting alternative right under everyone's nose. Here is an orchestra where the musicians have a say in the artistic process: in selecting their music director, their music, one another.
 Because it is a freelance group, it can expand or contract at will, responding to a specific piece or to economic hardship by simply using fewer musicians. Because it is not committed to a single hall, it can present a wide range of programs to different audiences: standard fare at Carnegie Hall, contemporary commissions at the Chelsea Art Museum, Baroque music at Temple Emanu-El. And because it does hire itself out, its musicians play about 100 concerts a year, appearing with anyone from Renee Fleming at Carnegie Hall to Metallica at Madison Square Garden, so the job remains varied and stimulating. 
 St. Luke's certainly didn't start out aspiring to challenge the status quo. Rather, it began as one of the many ensembles in New York founded to provide podiums for conductors who don't have as many professional gigs as they would like. (The Riverside Symphony, the Opera Orchestra of New York and the New York Grand Opera come to mind.) In the case of St. Luke's, the conductor and co-founder was Michael Feldman, and the ambitious goal was to create a crack ensemble, based at the Church of St. Luke in the Fields in the West Village, that could play anything in any style, from orchestral concerts to chamber opera. 
 All of these ''vanity'' orchestras have created their own viable models for working regularly with fixed groups of freelancers. What helped lift St. Luke's above the crowd was divesting itself of its founding conductor about 10 years into its history: personnel relations were breaking down, and Mr. Feldman and the board parted ways. The institution thus took on an identity independent of its founder's and ran with it, under a succession of notable music directors: Roger Norrington, Charles Mackerras and, now, Donald Runnicles (whose title is principal conductor). They were willing to assume the title because St. Luke's didn't represent the same kind of time commitment as a major orchestra. The results speak for themselves: an array of glowing testimonials from leading musicians and the current status of St. Luke's as the de facto house chamber orchestra of Carnegie Hall. Carnegie itself presents the group's annual four-concert season. (Other orchestras, like the Opera Orchestra of New York, have to rent the hall themselves.) And this year Carnegie is also presenting the smaller chamber ensemble in two concerts at Zankel Hall. (The first, also with Mr. Daniels, is next Wednesday.) 
 The downside of flexibility is that it can make it hard to establish a clear profile. Being presented by Carnegie means that Carnegie has considerable say in the programs; some critics carp that the orchestra's main-stage repertory is too conservative. Being hired by other organizations means that the distinction between a St. Luke's concert and a concert in which St. Luke's appears may become blurred even for educated concertgoers. And in the current climate, no orchestra can rest on its laurels; St. Luke's, under its president and executive director, Marianne Lockwood (who was the the other co-founder), is currently embarked on a strategic campaign to explore different options for its future. 
 Yet at a time when the model of the symphony orchestra as it now exists seems increasingly untenable, as the audience grays and shrinks and younger people see less and less reason to attend an orchestral concert, it's hard to ignore the example of an orchestra capable of making vivid music in a wide range of settings, and sustaining that model economically. It's vitally important -- more so than the musical establishment may think. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); BUDGETS (66%) Music

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (83%) Orchestra of St Luke's

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: Anne Midgette

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



473 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: A patent that protects a better mousetrap spurs innovation. But what about one for a new way to amuse a cat?

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
FEELING hungry? How about a peanut butter and jelly sandwich? But be careful how you make it -- you don't want to infringe on United States Patent No. 6,004,596, for a ''sealed crustless sandwich.''
 Well, maybe it is safer just to have some toast. But watch out for Patent No. 6,080,436 on a ''bread refreshing method.''
 Not hungry anymore? Well, maybe you could just play with the cat. But even that's not safe. Patent No. 5,443,036, ''Method of Exercising a Cat,'' protects using a laser pointer to amuse a cat ''and any other animals with the chase instinct.'' 
 These patents, which might strike some as frivolous, are symptoms of the deeper problems with the nation's patent system discussed in ''Innovation and Its Discontents,'' a recent book by two economics professors, Adam B. Jaffe of Brandeis and Josh Lerner of Harvard.
 Most economists, including the authors of this work, accept the need for intellectual property protection. Patents provide necessary incentives for innovation by adding ''the fuel of interest to the fire of genius,'' in the words of Abraham Lincoln, the only American president to hold a patent -- for a device to lift boats over shoals.
 However, any system of intellectual property protection requires balance. The law must offer enough rights to the inventor to stimulate innovation, while at the same time ensuring that the resulting temporary monopoly on the invention does not impose too onerous a burden on society.
 A patent has a length, a width and a height: how long it is valid, how broadly it applies and how novel it is. Mr. Jaffe and Mr. Lerner are most concerned with the last issue.
 A patentable invention must be ''not obvious to one skilled in the art.'' This guideline is subject to interpretation, and in recent years it has seemed as if almost anything could be patented.
 According to the authors, the deterioration in patent quality started in 1982, when Congress made two seemingly innocuous changes to the system.
 First, it created a specialized Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The motivation for this change was well intentioned: the district courts that heard patent appeals before 1982 applied widely varying standards, and the new Court of Appeals was supposed to offer a consistent policy.
 Second, Congress tried to make the processing of patents self-sustaining: it was to be supported entirely from fees paid by patent applicants.
 These reforms resulted in a tilt toward patent holders. Mr. Jaffe and Mr. Lerner assert that since these changes, a patent applicant is ''much more likely to have the patent granted; the patent is much more likely to be held valid if challenged in court; and the party accused of violating the patent is more likely to be found to be an infringer and forced to pay a large monetary award.''
 The economists explain these changes as an example of what economists call regulatory capture. Regulators -- in this case, judges who hear patent cases -- are often drawn from the industry they regulate. Even in cases where they come in as outsiders, over time they tend to identify with the concerns of the industry they regulate rather than with the public at large.
 The Patent and Trademark Office now views its constituency as patent holders -- not surprising, given that they make up the group that provides its financing. As one patent examiner put it: ''When I first started here, I was told, 'When in doubt, reject' and to try to reject. Now I am told, 'When in doubt, allow' and try to find a reason to allow.''
 Patent examiners are underpaid and overworked. Novelty is supposed to be judged relative to ''prior art,'' but it is almost impossible for a single human being to root out all relevant prior art. One result has been a steady reduction in patent quality, with patents of dubious novelty being granted routinely.
 The reduction in standards for granting patents has started an arms race among patent holders. The best defense against being sued for patent infringement is to hold a portfolio of patents that can be used to countersue. So every company has to build a ''patent thicket'': an arsenal of patents that can be used offensively or defensively, as necessary.
 The result has been sharp growth in patents and litigation. When patent suits are brought, they can be horrendously expensive. One study found that in cases where at least $25 million was at risk, the cost of defending a patent infringement suit was $2 million to $4.5 million. Even with small cases involving less than $1 million, the cost of defending was nearly half the amount at risk.
 So what is to be done?
 The first set of reforms that Mr. Jaffe and Mr. Lerner propose is to create better incentives to discover prior art. Once an examiner decides a patent might be granted, the Patent and Trademark Office would issue public notice of an ''intent to issue,'' and concerned parties could offer information that could be relevant to the determination of novelty.
 Such a procedure is not novel -- European countries have used such patent opposition procedures for years. A 1992 American commission recommended such a procedure here, and a relatively weak form of patent opposition has been allowed. Mr. Jaffe and Mr. Lerner offer several detailed suggestions for strengthening this tool.
 The second reform they propose is to offer several escalating levels of patent review, so that trivial patents could be dealt with at lower levels, reserving detailed examination for important cases.
 The third reform is to replace jury trials with judges, who could hire special masters, experts who would work for the judge in examining the arcane technological debates that arise in patent cases.
 They also offer several other suggestions, like moving from the current ''first to invent'' rule to the ''first to file'' rule. This would not only align the United States with the rule used in the rest of the world, but would also eliminate legal wrangling about priority.
 Mr. Jaffe's and Mr. Lerner's book offers a lucid, entertaining and sobering look at the American patent system. Their suggestions are worth serious consideration by policy makers and legislators.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Josh Lerner, left, and Adam B. Jaffe argued in ''Innovation and Its Discontents'' that changes in the patent system have contributed to a deterioration in patent quality. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (96%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); CATS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (89%); WRITERS (88%); APPEALS COURTS (84%); PATENT LAW (77%); LITERATURE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%) Inventions and Patents; Books and Literature

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Adam B (Prof) Jaffe; Josh (Prof) Lerner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



474 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds 'Jersey Shore' Isn't a Synonym for 'Fun'

BYLINE: By JASON GEORGE

 BODY:
The ''Jersey'' in ''Jersey Shore'' is the biggest problem in promoting the state's beaches and boardwalks, according to the results of a study released yesterday that sought to gauge public impressions of the shore as a tourist destination.
 ''If the shore didn't have New Jersey next to it I would think differently,'' one respondent said, summing up the state's problems in attracting visitors to the shore region of its 127-mile-long coastline. 
 The $270,000 study by Kindred Keziah, a marketing firm, included a series of surveys and focus groups conducted in the summer that questioned more than 6,700 people from New Jersey and other states. It found that many people, even New Jersey residents, associated the shore with stereotypes that are frequently attached to the state, including urban blight, hypodermic needles and, of course, ''The Sopranos.'' 
 ''Certain areas in New Jersey, people have really thick accents,'' the study quoted one person as saying. ''You're turned off by it.'' 
 Even though travelers spend more than $30 billion on visits to New Jersey every year, the state's share of the national tourism market has been shrinking for more than a decade, according to Curtis J. Bashaw, the executive director of the state's Casino Reinvestment Development Authority. He said the results of the study, announced at a ''Summit on the Shore'' tourism conference in Wildwood, would help the state do a better job of marketing the shore. 
 If the results are any indication, the state has its work cut out for it.
 People with a negative impression of the shore complained that the area was outdated and ''in need of a face-lift.'' A common refrain was that the shore was ''dirty and unappealing.'' 
 Even regular visitors complained about crowding, traffic and rudeness, but said they continued to visit the shore because it was convenient and inexpensive. ''Everyone was almost apologetic'' about vacationing at the shore, Mr. Bashaw said. 
 Gov. James E. McGreevey, who attended the conference, announced that he would change the name of the state's Commerce and Economic Growth Commission to the Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission. ''By adding 'tourism' to the name of the commission we are sending a message about its importance,'' he said.
 Last summer, Mr. McGreevey increased the budget of the Office of Travel and Tourism by $3 million to $12.5 million.
 Mr. Bashaw said the shore's problem is mostly one of perception. ''The reality is that we cleaned up our beaches hugely since the 1980's,'' he said. ''But we spent money to clean the ocean up. We forget to tell people about it.''
 New Jersey spends $5.7 million advertising the state as a tourist destination, compared with $60 million for Las Vegas and $50 million for Florida, according to the study, which was financed by conference attendees, including several private businesses and state agencies.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Surfing off Atlantic City's beach is not the first image that comes to mind when people think of the Jersey Shore, a new tourism study finds. (Photo by Daniel Hulshizer/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); BEACHES (90%); TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%) Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Kindred Keziah (Co)

PERSON: Jason George

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



475 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Marsh Executives Invested In Special Partnership
Board members and senior executives of Marsh & McLennan, the giant insurance broker, put millions of dollars into a partnership that profited by buying companies from Marsh and investing in companies that work with it.
 The disclosures about the partnership may add to the perception that Marsh, which advertises itself as a trusted adviser for insurance buyers and mutual fund investors, has had conflicts. [Page A1.]

The California insurance regulator is preparing lawsuits against several national insurance brokers and companies, people close to the insurance department said. [C5.]

Lucent Reports an Annual Profit
Lucent Technologies reported its first annual profit in four years, benefiting from demand for cellphone network gear and fiber-optic equipment. The chief executive said 2004 was ''a pivotal year'' for the company, which has cut tens of thousands of jobs. [C3.]

At Cingular Wireless, third-quarter sales rose 4.9 percent as it added subscribers. [C3.]

Trading Trouble Hurts J.P. Morgan
J.P. Morgan Chase said poor results in fixed-income trading were behind a quarterly profit drop that surprised Wall Street. [C2.]

Chiron Is Vague on Flu Vaccine
Executives at Chiron hedged about whether it would be able to return to selling flu vaccine in the United States next year. [C4.]

Federal health officials say the nation's elderly should get vaccinated against pneumonia, but supplies of the vaccine, made by Merck, are fragile. [B6.]

Major Airlines Report Steep Losses
Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and the parent of American Airlines all reported losses amid record fuel prices. [C8.]

Disney Unloads Its Store Chain
Disney reached a deal to essentially give its struggling chain of retail stores to the Children's Place, the clothing merchant. [C10.]

The trial began in a lawsuit filed by Disney shareholders over the $140 million severance package paid to Michael S. Ovitz. [C10.]

Stocks Fall as Oil Climbs Again
Stocks dropped, hurt by higher oil prices and some weak earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 10.69 points, to 9,886.93, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.43 of a point to 1,103.66. [C11.]

Pfizer Profit Up 49% in Quarter
Pfizer's third-quarter earnings jumped 49 percent on strong sales of Lipitor and Celebrex. Wyeth said it made a profit in the quarter, while profit at Amgen fell. [C11.]

Pen, Ink and Product Placement
In what may be a first for an animated show, a cartoon series on Comedy Central will incorporate the names and products of sponsors, including Domino's Pizza, into the action. Viewers will see product placements, ranging from subtle to blatant, in three of seven episodes. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C10.]

Small Businesses Are Optimistic
Three recent surveys show that entrepreneurs are bullish about the economy but remain cautious. Small Business. [C6.]

Is It Too Easy to Get a Patent?
In a new book, two professors argue that the patent system has deep problems, with too many patents of questionable novelty being granted. Economic Scene: Hal Varian. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: DrawingChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,886.93 down 10.69Nasdaq composite -- 1,932.97 up 10.0710-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.98% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2587 up 0.0069The dollar -- 108.19 yen down 0.22Graph: ''TODAY'' shows leading indicators from March to August.Leading IndicatorsSeptember figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.1%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Lucent shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); VACCINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (83%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); LITIGATION (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); INFLUENZA (71%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); PNEUMONIA (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); ANIMATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARSH SA (92%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (84%); PFIZER INC (69%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); AMGEN INC (51%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (50%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (91%); MHM (LSE) (91%); ALU (PAR) (84%); ALU (NYSE) (84%); ALU (BIT) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (69%); PFEB (BRU) (69%); PFE (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (51%); DPZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



476 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: The Real Consequences of Pension Projections

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
When General Motors conducted its quarterly earnings teleconference last Thursday, the first question from Wall Street was not about Cadillac cars or Chevrolet trucks or the company's no-interest financing deals. 
 It was about health care accounting. And that was before G.M., the Ford Motor Company and the auto supply giant Delphi disclosed this week that they were among six companies asked by the Securities and Exchange Commission to provide information as part of an inquiry into corporate pension and health care accounting practices. 
 Yesterday, Northwest Airlines identified itself as a fourth company. 
 Officials at the S.E.C. have said that they do not know of violations at the companies. But they are generally examining whether corporations alter projections for health care costs, pension plan returns and other factors as a way of manipulating earnings. 
 Apparently, the agency is looking at automakers like G.M. and Ford because they have some of the largest pension plans and offer medical benefits to huge numbers of retirees. When small changes in actuarial assumptions are applied to such huge plans, the resulting numbers can significantly affect earnings. 
 Northwest appears to be under scrutiny because of unusual actuarial assumptions that it has factored into its pension calculations. 
 Northwest's assumption about the investment returns of its pension fund has looked high in recent years compared with what is typical for large companies. In a conference call with securities analysts yesterday, the company's executive vice president and chief financial officer, Bernie Han, said that the airline believed that its accounting practices were sound and that it was cooperating fully with the S.E.C.
 Mr. Han said Northwest's actuarial assumptions ''are reached through an established process that involves our audit committee, outside auditors, legal counsel and independent pension advisers and reflect sound practice as well as our actual investment experience.'' 
 He also pointed out that Northwest had been lowering its pension rate-of-return assumption in recent years, as have other companies.
 Analysts have repeatedly criticized companies with pension plans for using assumptions that appear too optimistic given current financial conditions. Those who follow the auto industry said yesterday that the automakers' accounting practices were not out of the norm for corporate America; however, the regulators appear to be reviewing whether the standard practices themselves are appropriate. 
 If the S.E.C. demands even small adjustments in the accounting practices in question, it could have an enormous impact on Detroit because of the large numbers of people and dollars involved. Last week, G.M. said it would probably raise its health care inflation rate--or the amount it assumes the company's health care costs will rise in its financial reporting--from its current 8.5 percent to ''double digits.''
 Analysts fixated on the comment, because G.M. said in its most recent annual report that every percentage point change in its health care inflation rate would add $7.6 billion to its future health care liability for retirees. Liability for pensions for retirees and current workers after they retire already stands at $63.4 billion. 
 The company also said in its annual report that a one percentage point increase in health care inflation would reduce annual earnings by $539 million, or more than the company made in its most recent quarter. 
 If G.M. raised its health care inflation assumption to the lowest possible ''double digit'' rate of 10 percent, from the current 8.5 percent, it would reduce earnings by about $800 million and add more than $10 billion to the company's long-term liability. 
 These are not good numbers for G.M., or for the economic health of the Midwest. The company, which is the world's largest automaker, provides health care benefits to 1.1 million Americans, including workers, retirees and their families. That is roughly 0.4 percent of the total population, and explains why G.M. is the largest private purchaser of prescription drugs. 
 Japanese and German competitors do not have similar retiree medical liabilities because they are based in countries with nationalized health care, and their operations in the United States are relatively new and have few retirees. 
 G.M. says it spends about $1,400 on retiree medical benefits for each vehicle made in the United States, and that it believes that Toyota spends about $1,000 less. 
 Chris Struve, an analyst at Fitch Ratings, suggested in a new report that if health care cost trends continue, the domestic automakers could be pressed to seek major givebacks from labor in two to three years, raising the prospect of strikes. But ultimately, some relief will probably have to come from Washington. 
 ''Our expectation is that you'll need a national solution, but you've seen no impetus from either party to solve it,'' Mr. Struve said in an interview last week. ''So we wonder, are you waiting for someone to blow up, or someone like G.M. to terminate their health care plan? Is that what it's going to take? If you continue along the trend rate, health care will be a third of G.D.P. by the end of the decade,'' Mr. Struve said, using the initials for the gross domestic product.
 Whether some companies have made changes in their pension or health care assumptions to manipulate their reported earnings remains to be seen. ''We are confident that our financial reporting in this very complex area is complete and accurate,'' said Toni Simonetti, a spokeswoman for G.M.
 John Casesa, an auto analyst at Merrill Lynch, said in a note to investors yesterday that ''the companies involved here in our view have generally exceeded disclosure requirements.''
 Scott Sprinzen, a credit analyst for Standard & Poor's, said, ''If they're doing a broad look at pensions and retiree-related disclosures, you would think they would start with these companies where the numbers are so large.''
 ''Any type of S.E.C. inquiry has to be a concern, but we think there have to be far bigger concerns for Ford or G.M. or Delphi,'' he said.
 ''Toyota is a bigger threat to Ford or G.M. than the S.E.C. at this point,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers like Sue Mascorro in a G.M. plant in Michigan face the possibility of reduced retiree health benefits. (Photo by Tom Pidgeon/General Motors)Chart: ''The Cost of Change''Small changes in accounting for health care costs for retirees can have a large impact at General Motors.G.M.'s projected retiree health liability for different annual insurance cost increasesFor total work force as of Dec. 31, 2003PRIOR ASSUMPTION at 8.5%: $63.4 billionPOSSIBLE CHANGESat 10%: $74.3 billionat 12%: $90 billion(Source by Estimates based on company filings) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTUARIAL SERVICES (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); AUDITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ETHICS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAWYERS (50%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Northwest Airlines

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



477 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Bullish on the Economy, But Only Cautiously So

BYLINE: By ELLEN L. ROSEN

 BODY:
Small businesses are bullish, albeit cautiously, about the economy.
 That is the gist of three surveys released last week by American Express, the CIT Group and MasterCard International. Each company found that a majority of entrepreneurs expect either their businesses or the economy to improve within the next six months or longer. 
 ''Small-business owners are an optimistic bunch,'' said Doreen Amano, a vice president at MasterCard, ''even when thing are not looking good currently, they're thinking of ways to rebrand or to start a new business to adjust.'' 
 The MasterCard survey of 1,145 small-business owners ''and financial decision makers'' found that 33 percent expect a ''substantially better year, and 42 percent expect a ''slightly better'' year for their businesses in 2005. 
 The American Express survey more pointedly asked 773 small-business owners and managers how they viewed the economy. Only 14 percent thought that the economy would negatively affect their businesses (although the numbers were slightly higher in the Midwest); 44 percent thought that business would grow no matter how the economy fared (with numbers higher in the Northeast) and 30 percent said they believed that the economy would improve and that their businesses would expand along with it.
 Susan Sobbott, the president of American Express's small-business division, said the negative outlook was the lowest in the two years that the company had conducted the survey.
 In CIT's survey of 448 small businesses, done with Business Week Research Services, 28 percent of respondents ''strongly agreed'' with the statement that they were confident about the future of the economy, while 40 percent said they agreed somewhat with that sentiment.
 Despite the upbeat mood, the proof, at least in retailing, is in the inventory.
 Pat Sorensen owns the Penn Cycle Corporation, a chain of six bicycle and fitness stores in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. The company had a ''flat year'' Mr. Sorensen said, largely because of a rainy spring and an unusually cool summer. While Mr. Sorensen is ''optimistic that we couldn't have weather as bad as this year, I'm basing my ordering on having a flat year.''
 Although his vendors, high-end bicycle makers like Trek Bicycle and Giant Bicycle, would like him to order at least six months in advance, he tries to order four months before the selling season that begins at the end of March. And if his business is better than expected? He hopes his status as a big client will assure additional deliveries.
 In the notoriously fickle clothing business, store owners are showing signs of optimism, but are similarly placing conservative orders. Steven Roberts, president of the Echo Design Group, which sells scarves, other accessories and home products to both large and small stores, said orders from smaller specialty stores were up.
 ''Traditionally, stores buy anywhere from three to six months out, but increasingly, it's harder for retailers to predict that far in advance,'' he said. ''As a result, people tend to be a little more cautious and buy closer to when the consumer is ready to make a purchase.''
 While some of the surveys included a breakdown of industries responding, none correlated levels of optimism with types of business. The toy industry, for example, seems less sanguine about the near future, particularly after the two giants, Mattel and Hasbro, posted disappointing third-quarter results. And those in the novelty market are also not expecting an increase in 2005 sales. Nigel Febland, whose company, the Febland Group in New York, sells seasonal and novelty products with an emphasis on Halloween to both chains and independent stores, finds that ''consumers are coming into the stores and buying later'' and says that retail sales are either ''flat or down.'' He said that he could not predict next year's season until he received his ''sell-throughs'' for this Halloween, although he hoped there would be ''a strong kick at the end.'' 
 Even those who have done well throughout the recent recession are not willing to predict that the future will be as sunny. Leigh Ballen, president of Developers Inc., a real estate firm in Chicago, said: ''I think we've been riding a wave that others haven't had the benefit of. I have a new fear, because I don't know how long people will stay in the market when interest rates go up.'' His company, he said, ''hedges by being in the starter market.''
 The residual uncertainty may emanate from the barrage of disparate economic indicators announced of late. A recent survey conducted by the University of Michigan, for example, showed that consumer confidence, buffeted by high gas prices, slow job growth and the war, had dropped slightly in September, although still ahead of last year's levels. Despite those uncertain results, the Department of Commerce, in figures released last Friday, found that retail and food sales were up 7.7 percent from September 2003.
 The national employment picture, also lackluster, could get a small lift from some small businesses next year. American Express found that 35 percent of respondents plan to hire in the next six months, a drop from the April survey, but above the 26 percent that reported planning to hire in 2002. Similarly, MasterCard found that one-third of the small businesses it surveyed expected to increase staff, while 65 percent expected staffing to remain the same. 
 Mr. Sorensen of Penn Cycle, for example, said he planned to keep his staff at about the same level next year. But Gerry Hartung, president of Physician Practice, a medical publishing and education company in Glen Burnie, Md., said his company had been slow to hire and was ''probably overworking our current staff.'' Still, he said, his company had hired 13 people this year and planned to hire four more and even more next year. ''If we don't put people in place,'' he said, we ''won't be able to take advantage of the economy.'' 
 A majority of small businesses plan on making some capital improvements in the coming year. According to the American Express survey, 61 percent do, virtually unchanged from last year but up slightly from October 2002. The CIT/Business Week survey found that 60 percent planned on investing in technology, but only 22 percent in their facilities or property.
 ''There is controlled optimism,'' said John Canning, president of the CIT Small Business Lending Corporation. ''Businesses want to invest in the future, but it is not a huge expansionary time.'' Companies that have already experienced an improved market, however, are more likely to make capital investments. 
 Ellen Bruss, who has run a design firm in Denver since 1990, said: ''A year ago, we were doing estimates, but people would take a long time and have a tendency to revise and retrofit to their needs. Now people are coming to us with clear objectives of what they want to get done'' and want the work done quickly. 
 As a result, she has increased her staff and is planning to buy a larger building to house her expanding firm.
 ''I own the place I'm now in, but I am looking at a building that is twice the size, although I would need to lease some of the space,'' she said.
 Those involved in leasing retail space have seen some increased activity based on ''pent-up demand for decent areas,'' according to Brian Moss, the vice president of the Shopping Center Realty Corporation in Greenwich, Conn., which handles the leasing and property management of retail space. But expansion, he said, was ''more the exception than the rule.''
 Nonetheless, those experiencing an uptick in business are willing to invest. Ken Giddon, president of Rothman's, a small men's clothing chain, for example, has just finished renovating his flagship men's shop in Manhattan. 
 ''Over all, I have put more money into the business in the last year than in any year in the last 15,'' Mr. Giddon said. ''I'm feeling more comfortable than I have in years.'' His company also has stores in Southampton and Scarsdale, N.Y.
 Mr. Giddon said the men's apparel business was a ''good barometer.''
 ''The easiest thing for men to put off is buying clothes, because it's not high on their hierarchy of needs,'' he said. ''When our business goes up, it's a good indicator for the economy. We have had an incredibly strong first eight months this year, although I have seen in the last two months a softening. But I believe that is related to the election.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat Sorensen said recently that he was optimistic but was still ''basing my ordering on having a flat year.'' (Photo by Dawn Villella for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (74%); BRANDING (70%); RETAILERS (67%) United States Economy; Small Business; Public Opinion

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (95%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); CIT GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Co; Cit Group Inc; Mastercard International Inc

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (95%); AXP (NYSE) (90%); CIT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (58%)

PERSON: Ellen L Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (75%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



478 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Weak Profits Hurt Blue Chips; Broad Market Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average fell to a two-month low yesterday as higher oil prices and disappointing reports on profits from J.P. Morgan Chase and Honeywell International suggested that earnings growth might slow more than forecast.
 The Dow average dropped 10.69 points, or 0.1 percent, to 9,886.93, a level not seen since Aug. 13. Gains among energy stocks helped the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index recover from earlier losses; it added 0.43 point, to 1,103.66. The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.07 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,932.97 as semiconductor makers climbed. 
 About seven stocks advanced for every six that declined on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.68 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 27 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 J.P. Morgan Chase fell 73 cents, to $37.25. Earnings dropped 13 percent because of costs related to the July purchase of the Bank One Corporation and a slump in fixed-income trading. 
 Financial shares were the biggest drag on the S. &P. 500 among its 10 industry groups. Citigroup shares dropped 30 cents, to $43.29. Bank of America fell 64 cents, to $43.72.
 Honeywell fell $1.64, to $33.80. The company, the largest maker of cockpit electronics, said fourth-quarter profit might be less than analysts expect. 
 Motorola, the world's second-largest maker of mobile phones, slumped $1.41, to $17.09. The company said its market share dropped in the third quarter as Nokia, the No. 1 handset maker, cut prices and speeded handset deliveries to reclaim ground lost in the first half of the year. 
 Crude oil for November delivery rose 3.1 percent, to $54.92 a barrel in New York and earlier touched $55.20. Energy stocks rose along with the price of oil. Exxon Mobil, the biggest publicly traded oil producer, rose 56 cents, to $48.87. An index of energy shares gained 1.8 percent. The group has climbed 25 percent for the year, the best performance among the benchmark's 10 industry groups.
 Allegheny Technologies, the specialty steel maker, gained $1.67, to $16.28, for the biggest rally in the S.&P. 500. The company said third-quarter net income was 9 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of 36 cents a year earlier.
 Lucent Technologies rose 10 cents, to $3.48. The company, the largest American maker of telephone equipment, had its first profitable fiscal year since 2000 as fourth-quarter earnings rose on sales of gear to speed wireless networks. 
 Pfizer, the world's No. 1 drug maker, fell 70 cents, to $28.30. Third-quarter sales rose 4 percent, to $12.8 billion, less than analysts expected and the smallest revenue increase in more than two years.
 Countrywide Financial, the mortgage lender, plunged $4.33, or nearly 12 percent, to $33.17, for the third-steepest drop in the S.&P. 500. The company said third-quarter earnings declined to 94 cents a share from $1.93 a year ago. Countrywide also reduced its profit forecast for the year.
 Eastman Kodak, the world's biggest photography company, fell $3.05, to $29.50. Sales climbed 1 percent, to $3.36 billion, less than the $3.54 billion average estimate in a Thomson survey of analysts. The stock was up 27 percent this year before yesterday's decline.
 Treasury prices rose as the price of oil advanced. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note increased 13/32 to 102 5/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.98 percent, from 4.03 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (62%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (52%); PFIZER INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); ALU (PAR) (62%); ALU (NYSE) (62%); ALU (BIT) (62%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); ATI (NYSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (52%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (52%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



479 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MICHEL, CLIFFORD L.

 BODY:
 MICHEL--Clifford L., retired partner with the New York City law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 at his home in Gladstone, N.J. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Michel, known to all as Mickey, began his career at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in 1964. From 1972 to 1976, he was the resident partner in the firm's office in Paris, France, where he specialized in corporate, securities and international law. He was also the president of the Wenonah Development Company, an investment holding company. Since 1997, he had served as managing partner of Railhead Ventures with World Headquarters in Bedminster, N.J. Beginning in the late 1970s, Mr. Michel held directorships on boards of a variety of both public and privately held companies. At various times, he was a director of the Sperry & Hutchinson Company, Cities Service Company, Fruehauf France S.A., Tempo Technology Corporation and Faber-Castell Corporation. In 1983, he became a director of The Alliance Fund and more than 30 other mutual funds managed by Alliance Capital Management. In 1987, he became a director of Placer Dome, the Canadian mining concern. He held both positions until his death. His work included a long tenure as a trustee of Morristown Memorial Hospital and Morristown Memorial Health Foundation in Morristown, N.J. He started as a trustee in 1980 and he became chairman in 1991. After the consolidation of Morristown Memorial, Overlook and Mountainside hospitals in 1996, he served as director of Atlantic Health Systems. 
From 2000 through 2002, he served as chairman of Atlantic Health and he continued as a trustee of the Foundation and the Morristown Memorial Advisory Board. For more than two decades he was a trustee of St. Mark's School in Southborough, MA, of which he was a graduate. From 1988 through 1994, he was chairman of the board of trustees. He was also chairman of the Lonely Hearts Club, a single woman's support group based in New York City. Clifford Lloyd Michel was born in New York City on August 9, 1939. He graduated from Princeton University with a B.A. in Economics and Public Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School in 1961 and earned a J.D. from Yale University in 1964. That same year he married Betsy Shirley. They were married for over forty years and lived on a farm in Gladstone, N.J. where they raised pigs, chickens, donkeys and cattle. They spent summers in Siasconset, MA. Mr. Michel was a co-founder of the European Challenge, a loose affiliation of American golfing enthusiasts for which he served as Honorable Secretary for many years. He was also a member of the United States Seniors Golf Assocation. Besides his wife, Mr. Michel is survived by three children: Fritz of Los Angeles, CA, Jake of Washington, D.C., and Katie of New York City, N.Y. and two grandaughters, Stella Sperry Michel and Sadie Michel Schlesinger. The family asks that in lieu of flowers memorial contributions be made to St. Mark's School, Southborough, MA 01772 or Morristown Memorial Health Foundation, 100 Madison Avenue, Morristown, N.J. 07960. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, N.J. on Friday, October 22 at 11AM. For more information, contact Bailey Funeral Home of Peapack, N.J. 908-234-0590 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); GOLF (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%); LUNG CANCER (57%); CANCER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAHILL GORDON & REINDEL LLP (95%); FRUEHAUF SAS (83%); SPERRY & HUTCHINSON CO INC (69%); FABER-CASTELL CORP (69%); CITIES SERVICE CO (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (83%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (69%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (69%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



480 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: In Solidly Republican Alaska, a Charged Senate Race May Signal a Thaw

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
As soon as the Senate race began here almost a year ago, it was clear that the Republican incumbent, Lisa Murkowski, was profoundly vulnerable.
 Though she was appointed to fill the seat her father, also a Republican, held for more than two decades, she was the first woman to serve in the United States Senate in a state with a well-earned reputation as a roughhewn man's world and known for the long and powerful reign of its clubby, all-male Congressional delegation.
 But worse, it was her father, Frank H. Murkowski, who appointed her to the job two years ago when he was elected governor, prompting an avalanche of nepotism charges. That and other problems dogging his administration have made Mr. Murkowski one of the least popular governors in Alaska's history and a serious liability to his 47-year-old daughter. But that was before ''Uncle Ted'' rode to the rescue. 
 Uncle Ted is not her real uncle, but many people in Alaska refer to Senator Ted Stevens that way because of his uncanny ability to return federal dollars to their state. And his sudden appearance in campaign commercials and by her side on the campaign trail could go a long way to help her regain her footing in the race against the Democratic candidate, Tony Knowles, 61, a former governor, political analysts and pollsters say. 
 Already, the latest poll shows, she has closed the tiny gap with Mr. Knowles, who held a slight edge over her in the last several months. 
 ''They've left this until the end because this is their killer argument,'' said Ivan Moore, a pollster who conducted the latest survey for an Anchorage television station. ''Nothing is more important than the federal money we get through Ted Stevens.'' The survey showed Ms. Murkowski and Mr. Knowles tied. 
 For months, as polls have shown Ms. Murkowski locked in such a tight contest that it could help decide the balance of power in the Senate, Republicans have been sending their battle-ready proxies on the 3,300-mile trip here from Washington. These include Vice President Dick Cheney and a half-dozen Bush cabinet members. The governor, on the other hand, has stayed far from the stump, and his daughter, whose bumper stickers and campaign buttons say ''LISA'' in big thick letters and ''Murkowski'' in much smaller print, has rarely uttered his name during the campaign.
 Both parties have funneled huge resources into this race on the nation's frontier, making it extremely expensive by Alaska campaign standards and, in the last few weeks, increasingly vicious. Each candidate has raised about $4.5 million, according to campaign finance reports, with both taking in money from donors outside the state and poised to receive substantial get-out-the vote infusions from the parties' senatorial committees. Television and radio here have been saturated in recent weeks with attacks ads. 
 Ms. Murkowski's hard sell to voters is that if she loses and the Republicans lose their majority in the Senate and Mr. Stevens then loses his formidable influence, Alaska loses big. On the stump, she often refers to the Republican delegation as Team Alaska.
 Jennifer E. Duffy, Senate editor of the Cook Political Report, a non-partisan newsletter published in Washington, said Ms. Murkowski has been deft in linking her fate to Senator Stevens, who would rotate out of his chairmanship of the Senate Appropriations Committee no matter who controls the Senate but who would relinquish other powerful positions if the Democrats take back the majority.
 ''Stevens is sort of one rung lower than God in Alaska,'' she said. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Stevens has begun to show up at campaign events, popping his head into the candidates' first debate at an Anchorage hotel on Oct. 14 and appearing on her behalf in two new television ads. In one, he says gruffly, ''Anyone who says an appointed senator can't do a good job -- you just send them to me.''
 These days, Ms. Murkowski, a lawyer who was a relatively unknown state legislator when she was appointed to the Senate, seems to mention Mr. Stevens wherever she goes. 
 ''Ted is president pro tem of the Senate, third in line for the presidency,'' Ms. Murkowski told a group of supporters at a ''Ladies for Lisa'' event near downtown Anchorage the other day, where she was joined for the second time at a fund-raiser by Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton. ''But not if we lose the majority.''
 While the two candidates differ little on most issues crucial to Alaska voters, including widespread support here for opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, this is the first competitive Senate race here in a quarter-century. Alaska, which became a state in 1959, has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Lyndon B. Johnson or sent a Democratic legislator to Washington since 1974, and it is expected to vote for President Bush next month by a landslide. 
 In a state with only 650,000 residents and 460,000 registered voters, Mr. Stevens and the long-serving lone Congressman, Don Young, are often treated by voters as part of a cozy family. But 2004 may become known here as the year that shook the family. 
 As Mr. Knowles likes to say on the campaign trail, ''I don't know how many people have told me this is the most important election of their lifetime.''
 A Vietnam veteran who was a fraternity brother of Mr. Bush's at Yale and came to Alaska 35 years ago to work on an oil drilling rig, he was a formidable opponent from the start. 
 Carl E. Shepro, associate professor of political science at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, said voters had a comfort level with Mr. Knowles, a former Anchorage mayor, that they did not have with Ms. Murkowski. He also said that Mr. Knowles's support among native Alaskans, who make up 16 percent of the population and are registering to vote in unprecedented numbers, was crucial. 
 ''His gubernatorial campaign relied heavily on the native Alaska vote,'' Professor Shepro said. ''He probably got more than 90 percent in the villages.'' 
 That is not to say that Mr. Knowles does not have his own version of Ms. Murkowski's father problem. 
 Even among those who are willing to vote for a local Democrat, the national Democratic Party is often thought of here as being in the stranglehold of environmentalists. A majority of voters here are registered as independents. Mr. Knowles, who rarely mentions his party or its presidential nominee, Senator John Kerry, has gone to great lengths to distance himself from Mr. Kerry. Mr. Kerry has made keeping the Arctic refuge off limits to drilling a centerpiece of his environmental platform. 
 Mr. Knowles's campaign literature promotes him as an ''independent fighter'' for Alaska and accuses his opponent of being beholden to special interests, obsessed with partisanship and unwilling to buck her own party. 
 ''I'm giving them all the competition they can stand,'' Mr. Knowles said in an interview at his home in Anchorage. ''They don't own that seat. Alaska owns that seat.''
 He added, ''At the end of the day, a person has to stand on their own merits, their own strengths and what they can contribute, not who they hang out with.''
 At the candidates' debate in Anchorage, sponsored by members of the oil, mining and fisheries industries, most of them supporters of Mr. Bush, there was a palpable awkwardness in the room when the candidates were asked whom they were supporting for president. 
 ''John Kerry,'' Mr. Knowles said, quickly adding, ''But whoever gets elected I'll put them on notice.''
 ''If they're against Alaska issues,'' he continued, ''I'll fight them all to the wall.''
 The next day, at the luncheon for Ms. Murkowski's supporters, the senator made much of the fact that Mr. Knowles had hastily responded to the question about his choice for president and that he was part of a political party whose leadership has strongly opposed oil drilling in the Arctic refuge and logging in other parts of Alaska. With unemployment in Alaska at 7.6 percent, the highest rate in the nation, many Alaskans support at least ''responsible'' oil drilling and logging in federal lands as a source of new jobs. 
 In an interview, Ms. Murkowski said: ''It's really about who can deliver for Alaska on the pro-Alaska agenda. And the pro-Alaska agenda is really a Republican agenda.''
 She has not shied away from saying she knows that how she got her job could have done her some damage. 
 ''It is without a doubt a first,'' she said. ''There were many people that did not like the way I came into this office, and I have not asked them to like it. I have asked them to judge me on my performance.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Knowles, the Democratic challenger, with Pola Hamane at a campaign event.
 Senator Lisa Murkowski, the Republican incumbent, speaking at a fund-raiser. (Photographs by Charles Mason for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Elections; Finances; Election Issues; Governors (US); Nepotism

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (93%); TED STEVENS (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Sarah Kershaw; Lisa (Sen) Murkowski; Frank H (Gov) Murkowski; Tony Knowles

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Alaska

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



481 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Where Is She? Not on ABC, as Network Abandons Pageant

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ; Bill Carter contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
For years, as its longtime song asserted, the winner of the Miss America Pageant was the ideal American woman, a paragon that included Lee Meriwether, Bess Myerson and Phyllis George. Then came the feminist protests of 1968 and the scandals of the 1980's: the popular host Bert Parks was fired for being too old, and Vanessa Williams was forced to give up her crown after nude photos of her surfaced in Penthouse. Still, the pageant managed to survive.
 But yesterday, in a signal of its declining distinction as both a business and a cultural institution, the Atlantic City pageant was dropped by ABC television, calling into question whether the pageant, broadcast since 1954, could survive, at least in its present form. 
 A spokesman for ABC said yesterday that the network would not renew its one-year contract, declining to elaborate. But a senior ABC program executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, ''It simply was not performing for us.'' 
 The pageant has seen its ratings in a free fall over the past 10 years. It was watched by more than 25 million viewers in 1995. This year, despite efforts to streamline the program by limiting the talent contest and adding skimpier swimsuits, only 9.8 million people watched.
 ''We've lost money on it,'' the ABC executive said, while declining to specify an amount. ''We just don't know how to make the economics work.''
 The pageant dates from 1921, a year after the League of Nations first met and women's suffrage was ratified into the Constitution. ABC was the first network to broadcast the competition and has held the rights since 1997. Pageant officials said yesterday that ABC notified the pageant that it would not pick up the one-year option for next year's broadcast.
 Viewership dropped this year to a record low of about one out of 10 television sets in use, down from its heyday in the late 1950's, when seven out of 10 sets were tuned in, according to Nielsen Media Research. 
 For their part, pageant officials expressed optimism. Arthur McMaster, acting president and chief executive officer, told The Associated Press: ''This is a good day for the Miss America Organization. We are now free to pursue other parties who have expressed interest in our organization, and we are excited at the limitless opportunities that are now available for us to grow our brand.''
 Pageant officials could not be reached for comment last night on their plans for television sponsorship. The pageant depends on advertising income, which in turn depends on a national television audience.
 Straining for modernity, the pageant failed to keep television viewers despite nods to both feminism and skimpy bathing suits (the contestants wore bikinis this year). While Barbie remains an icon for young girls, Miss America does not, historians said. 
 An executive with another major network, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said it would probably at least consider picking the program up if pageant officials could develop an acceptable financial proposal.
 Executives at other networks declined to comment on the record. The program has already been rejected by NBC, its longtime home before ABC took it over in 1997. And CBS got out of the pageant business several years ago. Fox is not a likely home for the event, which now draws a somewhat older audience.
 The pageant remains popular in the South -- four of this year's five finalists came from Southern states and the winner was Miss Alabama, Deidre Downs. But Christian groups have been expressing misgivings.
 Erin Curry, who monitors cultural trends for Baptist Press, the news service of the Southern Baptist Convention, recently wrote that this year's changes ''implied the emphasis had been moved from scholarship to sex appeal to gain viewers'' in response to declining TV ratings.
 The pageant had its roots in the 1920 ''Fall Frolic,'' a publicity event featuring young ''maidens'' and designed to attract tourists to Atlantic City. The next year a ''bathers revue'' was organized. A local newspaperman said of the revue's winner, ''And we'll call her Miss America.''
 Publicity for the contest stressed that contestants did not wear makeup or bob their hair, a signal that the women were to be modest and not indulge in such symbols of 1920's sophistication.
 For most of the competition's history, contestants were Christian and white. Bess Myerson was the first (and only) Jewish Miss America. A clause, inserted in 1937, required contestants to be of good health and ''of the white race.''
 The competition's heyday was when it was first televised in 1954, the year Lee Meriwether was crowned. Almost half, or 47 percent, of all television sets, still a somewhat new phenomenon, were tuned to the pageant. By 1961, viewership had soared to 75 percent.
 By the late 1960's, however, feminists had begun to question the value and symbolism of beauty pageants. By 1979, viewership declined for the first time to less than half of all viewers, or 48 percent.
 It held steady in the 40 percent range until 1983, when Vanessa Williams was crowned the first black Miss America and subsequently resigned over a controversy over nude photographs that found their way into Penthouse magazine.
 ''If it ends, what would be missing in American life is a major cultural institution, like the Academy Awards,'' said Elwood D. Watson, an associate professor of history at East Tennessee State University and co-author of ''There She Is, Miss America: The Politics of Sex, Beauty, and Race in America's Most Famous Pageant.'' Now,'' he said, ''it's more like a cult following.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Contestants in the Miss America Pageant broadcast from Atlantic City on Sept. 18. (Photo by Daniel Hulshizer/Associated Press)Graph: ''Losing Glamour''The Miss America Pageant has been losing viewers steadily.Graph tracks viewers of the Miss America Pageant since 1990. (Source by Nielsen Media Research)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (65%) Beauty Contests; Television; Miss America; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Abc Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



482 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: MICHIGAN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Kerry in the Lead, but Almost by Default

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., Oct. 19 

 BODY:
It took John Kerry a long time to get rolling in Michigan, much longer than the handicappers in Washington had forecast. Not until the debates did his campaign finally get into gear in a state that had all along seemed likely to be his easiest target among all the Midwestern battlegrounds.
 This is a state where organized labor gained an early foothold, thanks to Walter P. Reuther and the United Auto Workers, among others, and has never relinquished it. With 760,000 members, Michigan unions represent almost a quarter of the state's workers, double the national average, and in this campaign, union members seem disinclined to stray from the Democratic fold, as many did when Ronald Reagan or George C. Wallace were on the ballot.
 Michigan has a popular and articulate Democratic governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, and two Democratic senators. Heavy job losses in the state on President Bush's watch, including a quarter of the national toll in manufacturing jobs, have made him highly vulnerable here. 
 In 2000, it was not close; Al Gore beat Mr. Bush by 217,279 votes.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Kerry trailed in some polls late last month, and ''his carrying the state was very much in doubt,'' said David W. Rohde, a professor of political science at Michigan State University.
 If that is no longer the case -- if ''the probability of his carrying the state is now very high,'' as Professor Rohde said -- it is not because the Democratic nominee has campaigned as hard here as he has in Iowa, Ohio and Wisconsin. He has not visited the state since he spoke to the Detroit Economic Club on Sept. 15, and he is not expected back before Election Day.
 In fact, Michigan does not feel all that much like a swing state, although its 17 electoral votes are an appealing target, the eighth-largest haul in the country.
 The state's Republicans have mounted a big billboard campaign, with slogans like ''Remember, It's Your Money,'' and ''Boots, Not Flip-Flops.'' But Mr. Bush has not been here much lately, either, and the state lies far from the eye of the advertising storm that is engulfing Florida and Ohio. Only Grand Rapids makes the University of Wisconsin's authoritative list of 25 cities that have had the most television advertisements this fall, with a No. 9 ranking. (The city is third on the Bush campaign's advertising intensity list, however, and Republican officials concede that the president is not doing as well as expected in that conservative stronghold.) The second 25 includes Detroit, Flint, Lansing and Traverse City.
 Michigan is more important to Mr. Kerry than to Mr. Bush, in the same sense that Ohio is more vital to the president. At least in ''normal'' political years, the Democrats carry Michigan; they have done so in the last three elections. No Republican has won the presidency without carrying Ohio.
 ''If Kerry ends up winning this state,'' said Bill Ballenger, editor of Inside Michigan Politics, a widely read newsletter, ''he'll do it without working very hard for it or, in a sense, deserving it.''
 But the political wind has undeniably been blowing in his direction in the last few weeks. A poll completed immediately before the third presidential debate last week for The South Bend Tribune, just across the state line in Indiana, put Mr. Kerry at 48 percent and Mr. Bush at 43 percent, with 2 percent for Ralph Nader and 6 percent undecided. It had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 A poll by Strategic Vision, a Republican firm, gave Mr. Kerry a nine-point lead, 49 percent to 40 percent, with 11 percent undecided -- a spread well outside its margin of error of plus or minus three points. That poll was completed Oct. 14, the day after the third debate.
 It was the debates, in Professor Rohde's estimation, that made most of the difference. In Michigan, he said, ''a very substantial proportion of the electorate now, for the first time, considers John Kerry plausible as a president.''
 The third debate, which focused on domestic issues, largely economic, may have seemed particularly important to this state's voters. In most of the country, voters rank terrorism, Iraq and jobs as issues of roughly equal significance, but according to surveys in Michigan, jobs are the most pressing concern.
 While insisting that ''nobody is taking anything for granted,'' Ms. Granholm expressed confidence over coffee in her office early one morning last week that Mr. Kerry would win here. Joblessness, currently at 6.5 percent, is the principal reason, she said; Iraq is less significant.
 ''People know it's a mess,'' she said, ''and that has to hurt the president, but they don't know how much of a mess it is -- how utterly horrible -- and we as a people don't want to believe how much damage we've done to our reputation abroad.''
 Ms. Granholm produced a piece of paper on which she had noted the morning's television news headlines and read them out for her visitor: ''the deficit larger; the Dow dropping; unemployment claims up, hitting an all-time high; General Motors profits below expectations, with health claims crippling profits; flu vaccine in short supply; oil prices rising.'' 
 They added up, she said, ''to a perfect storm of bad news.''
 She might have said that persistent high oil prices hit this state in more than one way. They hurt not only auto sales and hence employment in the auto industry but also the state's collective psyche. In Michigan, almost everyone owns a car or two as well as a boat and considers it his God-given right to use them as much as he likes.
 So why was Mr. Kerry so slow to take advantage of his opening?
 ''He was losing the granny vote,'' said Ed Sarpolus, a Lansing pollster and political consultant. ''Among women over 60, for whom health care and Social Security matter a lot, he was running below 50 percent through the beginning of the summer. That was the first time I'd seen that for a Democratic nominee in many years.
 ''He made few trips here, and when he did show up, he had no domestic message. He never closed the deal that was there waiting for him. Now he has, finally, and he'll probably be O.K. here, but we don't know yet whether it will be close or a blowout. If not for the debates, Bush might well have taken Michigan this time.''
 Ms. Granholm can help Mr. Kerry with two of his main target groups. As a Clinton-style centrist Democrat, less liberal and less austere than the New Englander Mr. Kerry, she may give him credibility with the blue-collar voters in places like Macomb County who voted for Ronald Reagan and whose views on abortion and same-sex marriage are more conservative than their economic attitudes. Many originally favored Representative Richard A. Gephardt for the Democratic nomination.
 The governor is also popular with independents, who account for close to a fifth of the electorate, and with suburban working women like herself.
 With the help of the Michigan A.F.L.-C.I.O., headed by a tough-minded former Teamsters organizer named Mark Gaffney, the Democrats have mounted what Mr. Gaffney calls the largest precinct-level mobilization ever tried by the labor movement in Michigan. On a single Saturday this month, an aide to Ms. Granholm said, party volunteers made 131,452 contacts with voters, either by knocking on doors or by making telephone calls.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry, introduced by Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm in March in one of his rare visits to Michigan. (Photo by Elise Amendola/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); RANKINGS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Public Opinion; Debating; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (57%) R W Jr Apple; John (Sen) Kerry; Jennifer M (Gov) Granholm

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (58%); FLINT, MI, USA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



483 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2517 words

PERSON: Paul H. Nitze

HEADLINE: Paul H. Nitze, Missile Treaty Negotiator and Cold War Strategist, Dies at 97

BYLINE: By MARILYN BERGER

 BODY:
Paul H. Nitze, an expert on military power and strategic arms whose roles as negotiator, diplomat and Washington insider spanned the era from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan and helped shape America's cold war relationship with the Soviet Union, died Tuesday night at his home in Washington. He was 97.
 The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Elisabeth Scott Porter.
 From the beginning of the nuclear age, whether in government or out, Mr. Nitze urged successive American presidents to take measures against what he saw as the Soviet drive to overwhelm the United States through the force of arms. Yet he may be best remembered for his conciliatory role in efforts to achieve two major arms agreements with the Soviet Union. 
 In one, he was successful in negotiating an agreement that eliminated intermediate-range missiles from Europe. In the other, he hoped to cap his long career with a so-called grand compromise in 1988 that would have severely circumscribed work on President Reagan's cherished strategic missile defense initiative in exchange for deep cuts in the nuclear arsenals of both superpowers. His efforts foundered when the negotiators ran out of time as the Reagan administration came to an end. 
 In a now legendary moment of the cold war, Mr. Nitze undertook a bold but unsuccessful personal effort to achieve an earlier arms agreement with the Russians. In 1982, acting on his own and, some say, superseding his instructions, Mr. Nitze took a walk with his Soviet counterpart in the Jura Mountains, where he tried to strike a bargain on a package dealing with intermediate-range missiles in Europe. 
 In that episode -- which later became the subject of the Broadway play ''A Walk in the Woods'' by Lee Blessing -- Mr. Nitze tried to cut through the bureaucratic tangle but was thwarted when both Moscow and Washington repudiated the agreement. 
 Mr. Nitze (pronounced NITS-uh) refused an appointment in the first Bush administration as ambassador at large emeritus, saying it would leave him with no clear responsibilities. He retired to an office at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies of the Johns Hopkins University -- a school that was named for him in 1989 -- where he continued to write articles in a continuing attempt to influence policy. 
 With that, his long career in government came to an end, a career that began in 1940 with a telegram that said, ''Be in Washington Monday, Forrestal.'' 
 The summons from James V. Forrestal, then a special assistant at the White House, lured Mr. Nitze from the lucrative confines of Wall Street to the first of many assignments in government that involved him in the supply of the Allies for the war effort, a survey of the impact of the Allied bombing of Germany and Japan, the feeding of the hungry of war-ravaged Europe, the creation of the Marshall Plan and crises in Iran and Berlin.
 In the aftermath of World War II, Mr. Nitze became part of the remarkable group of public servants -- George F. Kennan, Charles E. Bohlen, Robert A. Lovett, John J. McCloy -- that coalesced around Dean Acheson to develop foreign political and military policy as the United States took its place as a major world power.
 He was a senior State Department official in the Truman administration, an assistant defense secretary in the Kennedy administration, and Navy secretary and later deputy defense secretary in the Johnson administration. 
 By the time he became one of the chief negotiators on strategic weapons, Mr. Nitze had accumulated more experience in national security affairs than anyone else of his time, to the point that his critics began to think that he believed he had a monopoly on understanding the political uses of nuclear weapons.

Postwar Policy Framework
 Ever since 1950, when as head of the policy planning staff of the State Department he was the principal author of a study on the Soviet threat, Mr. Nitze took a dark view of Soviet intentions, seeing in the Kremlin a drive for world hegemony. 
 The study, known as N.S.C.-68, conceived of deterrence in military rather than diplomatic terms, warned against sole reliance on the nuclear deterrent and urged a buildup of conventional forces. 
 Its precepts became a cornerstone of American policy. In succeeding years, when the United States nuclear monopoly was broken, Mr. Nitze warned regularly that the Soviet Union was trying to achieve preponderant nuclear strength as a tool of blackmail or, in the worst case, to win an all-out war. 
 Later, when Mr. Nitze took his walk in the woods near Geneva to work out an arms deal, he confounded his critics, who considered him too hard-line because of his pessimistic views of the Russians. 
 A man of intimidating intellect, Mr. Nitze could be warm and affectionate or cerebral and brittle. He was a formidable bureaucrat with a brilliant mind and a persuasive pen. Out of government-- as he was during the Carter administration-- he was an equally effective critic, as he showed in the late 1970's as the mastermind of the opposition to the second strategic arms limitation agreement. He used complicated charts and computer printouts to warn that the treaty would lock the United States into permanent strategic inferiority. 
 Despite that vigorous opposition, once Mr. Nitze was back in government he urged President Reagan to comply with the terms of the treaty, even though it was never ratified, and to try to reach a better agreement with Moscow.
 Among his colleagues there were those who said Mr. Nitze was so embittered at being excluded from the Carter administration that he could not assess the treaty dispassionately. He had too often been passed over for the major jobs, always on tap but never on top, as his old neighbor James Reston once wrote. 
 He always seemed too conservative for the liberal administrations and too liberal for the conservative ones. In an interview in which he looked back at his long career in government, Mr. Nitze acknowledged that it was one of his life's major disappointments that he had never been appointed to a cabinet-level position -- as secretary of state or defense, or as director of central intelligence. 
 ''I sometimes think I would have liked to be secretary of agriculture,'' he said with a rueful chuckle.
 While his considerable expertise was in political-military affairs, his little joke was not far off the mark, and in his later years he tried to get the country to deal with environmental problems. For years, in addition to homes in Washington, Northeast Harbor, Me., and Aspen, Colo., he maintained a 1,920-acre working farm in Maryland on the banks of the Potomac, where he kept pigs and cattle and grew corn. 
 It was there that he rode horses, sailed along the Potomac and practiced the piano in a lifelong endeavor to understand, as one friend said, why Bach sounds like Bach. 

A Confirmed Pessimist
 For all that good life, Mr. Nitze -- handsome with a full head of white hair and still athletic and trim in his later years, well-educated, intelligent and wealthy -- remained a confirmed pessimist, having been deeply affected by seeing at first hand the outbreak of the two world wars.
 Paul Henry Nitze was born on Jan. 16, 1907, in Amherst, Mass., where his father, one of the world's leading philologists, was a professor of Romance languages. The Nitze family did not live on a professor's salary, though. Mr. Nitze explained that ''both my grandparents did very well.'' During his childhood there were summers in Europe, mainly in Germany, and the family was in the Tyrol in 1914 when World War I broke out. 
 Mr. Nitze spent much of his boyhood in Chicago. His father taught at the university, and he attended experimental schools before going on to Hotchkiss and Harvard. Generally a good student, he said: ''I distinguished myself by getting the lowest mark ever given at Harvard, a zero, in a course on the history of economic thought. The most beautiful girl suggested that I go down to Newport for the weekend on the day of the final exam.''
 The zero left no permanent economic scar, for Nitze got rich in Wall Street despite the Depression, first at Dillon Read & Company and then in his own firm. He made one fortune from a company he started with other investors, known as the U.S. Vitamin and Pharmaceutical Company. Another fortune came from real estate investments in Aspen. In 1932 he married Phyllis Pratt, whose grandfather was a founder of the Standard Oil Company of New York and the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. Mrs. Nitze died in June 1987. 
 In 1993 he married Elisabeth Porter. She survives him, as do his four children: Heidi Nitze and Peter, both of New York; William, of Washington, and Phyllis Anina Nitze Moriarty of Boston; a stepdaughter, Erin Porter, of Salt Spring Island, British Columbia; 11 grandchildren; three step-grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
 There will be a memorial service at 11 a.m. Saturday in the National Cathedral in Washington, followed by a reception at the Metropolitan Club, 1700 H Street NW, Washington. Burial will be private.
 Earlier this year, in one of his last public appearances, Mr. Nitze was present in Maine at the christening of a Navy guided-missile destroyer bearing his name, only the eighth time the Navy has named a warship for a living person. 
 Mr. Nitze was called to Washington by Mr. Forrestal -- then an assistant to President Roosevelt -- who had been president of Dillon Read, where Mr. Nitze had been a vice president.
 It was 1940 and Mr. Nitze, who had seen Hitler during a visit to Germany, opposed United States entry into the war. But he quickly became active in the American war effort. He helped draft the Selective Service Act and, in 1942, became chief of the Metals and Minerals Branch of the Board of Economic Warfare. 
 Subsequently he became director of foreign procurement and development for the Foreign Economic Administration. He was vice chairman of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, a study that years later caused him to question United States bombing strategy in Vietnam. After the war he headed the billion-dollar global relief program. 
 In 1950, during the Truman administration, he succeeded George F. Kennan as head of the State Department's policy planning staff. It was then that Mr. Nitze started making his mark as a political-military strategist whose dark view of the Russians surpassed those of Mr. Kennan and Mr. Bohlen, the nation's leading experts on the Soviet Union. Mr. Kennan found the language of N.S.C.-68 to be dangerously melodramatic and unhelpful. 
 Seven years later, although he was out of favor during the Eisenhower administration, Mr. Nitze was appointed to the presidential committee headed by H. Rowan Gaither that called for nationwide fallout shelters and warned of a ''missile gap'' that eventually proved to be illusory.
 Mr. Nitze was a Democrat who changed parties to protest Roosevelt's effort to pack the Supreme Court. He returned to the fold at the beginning of the Eisenhower administration. Squeezed out of office because of his association with Mr. Acheson and discouraged at being on the outside, Mr. Nitze went back to his farm and, at the suggestion of his wife, who wanted to take his mind off his troubles, entered a horse race at the Charles County fair. When he won, he acknowledged, at least to himself, his longing for recognition.
 President Kennedy offered Mr. Nitze several jobs and gave him 30 seconds to decide which one he wanted. He chose deputy defense secretary, but did not get the post until seven years later. In the intervening years he was an assistant secretary in the Pentagon and then secretary of the Navy. 
 When President Nixon appointed Mr. Nitze to the United States delegation to the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks with the Soviet Union, he played an important role in negotiating the Antiballistic Missile Treaty, but he resigned in 1974, charging that the ''depressing reality of the traumatic events'' related to Watergate was making the administration too eager to cut a deal with the Russians. 
 As an early supporter of Jimmy Carter, Mr. Nitze expected that he would finally get a major appointment and was bitterly disappointed when he was passed over once again. His views were too hawkish for the liberal foreign policy that President Carter wanted to pursue. 
 Mr. Nitze mounted a spirited -- some called it venomous -- opposition to the confirmation of one of his old colleagues, Paul C. Warnke, as Mr. Carter's strategic arms negotiator, incurring the wrath of old friends who labeled him an ideologue. 

Critic of Carter Arms Pact
 When Mr. Warnke was confirmed and the Carter administration achieved a second strategic arms limitation treaty, Mr. Nitze became its most vocal and effective critic, the intellectual guru for the Committee on the Present Danger in its campaign against the agreement. It was never ratified. 
 Mr. Nitze's hard line toward Moscow found greater resonance with the next president, Ronald Reagan, who put him in charge of the United States delegation to the talks on intermediate-range nuclear weapons. His mandate was to negotiate the so-called zero-zero option by which the United States would forgo future American deployment of new missiles in Europe if the Soviet Union would remove the missiles it had targeted on Western Europe. 
 The two sides were far apart when Mr. Nitze went on the now famous walk in the woods to draw the Russians into a package deal. When the proposal was rejected by both sides, Mr. Nitze, instead of being reprimanded, was appointed special adviser to the president on arms control matters in 1984. 
 Though the Soviet Union rejected the zero-zero option, a few years later it accepted a more comprehensive arrangement, the so-called double zero agreement that limited medium-range missiles in Europe and shorter-range missiles as well. That agreement was signed on Dec. 8, 1987. 
 In November 1985, Mr. Reagan awarded Mr. Nitze the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Yet that same year Mr. Nitze once again seemed to be going out on his own to raise serious questions about Mr. Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative. While insisting that he favored the program, informally known as Star Wars, he laid down such stringent terms for its acceptability that he seemed to be torpedoing it from the start, in effect handing useful arguments to its opponents. 
 At the same time, he was seeking to make a deal that would limit the elaborate new antimissile system in exchange for cuts in offensive weapons, a two-pronged ploy that once again provided evidence of his cunning and skill as a negotiator, another example of a talent that contributed to a lifetime of survival in Washington.
 ''Some people say there are two policies in the executive branch,'' he said one day as he sat in his office on the seventh floor of the State Department just before his 79th birthday. ''One is mine and the other is the president's, which is marginally so. Some of the things I've said are different from what the president has said, but all the things I have said have been approved by the president.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Nitze meeting with President Reagan during arms talks in 1982. (Photo by D. Gorton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); THEATER (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MOUNTAINS (68%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

RONALD REAGAN (90%) Marilyn Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (56%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



484 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Why Taxes Have to Go Up

 BODY:
Last May, this page called on the presidential candidates to engage in a serious debate on the federal budget deficit, now $415 billion, compared with the $236 billion surplus when President Bush took office four years ago. What has emerged instead is a pair of dueling tax plans, each of them inadequate to support its candidate's vision of government. 
 President Bush is fixated on making his ill-conceived tax cuts permanent and creating new tax shelters for affluent investors. Senator John Kerry's tax agenda raises money for the government by repealing Mr. Bush's tax cuts for high-income earners, an idea we applaud. But he has promised away everything he'd save for worthy, but expensive, new initiatives. The Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan group, estimates that the stated policies for a second Bush term would result in a slightly larger deficit over 10 years than Mr. Kerry's plan. 
 Both candidates, unfortunately, are operating on a similar premise: that nothing need be done now to avert the looming dangers of the nation's huge financial imbalances. As long as Social Security and Medicare aren't belly up, the dollar isn't plummeting, interest rates aren't spiking, and economic growth isn't tanking -- that is, as long as any consequences of mushrooming deficits have not yet materialized -- each candidate seems determined to push forward with an agenda that avoids asking Americans to pay for what the government provides. 
 That neatly avoids annoying voters during the campaign season, but it's perilously shortsighted. The United States carries the biggest deficit and debt loads among the world's advanced economies, borrowing a daily $1.7 billion from abroad, mainly from China and Japan. As a result, the economy, which is increasingly viewed by outsiders as cooling off and hobbled by deficits, runs the ever greater risk that foreigners may decide they are not willing to lend or, worse, may decide to sell off large chunks of their $10 trillion in United States assets.
 Either could provoke a crisis by causing interest rates and prices to rise sharply and the economy to falter. 
 Economic doomsaying? Hardly. This week, the Treasury Department reported that in August, monthly investment in the United States from the rest of the world fell for the sixth time this year, with private investment falling by half and financing by central banks rising just enough to cover the American trade imbalance. Even without a sudden deterioration, the continued accumulation of foreign debt will erode prosperity over time. To grasp the problem, consider that the child credits or other tax breaks you enjoy today are in effect a loan from, say, China, through the United States Treasury to you. Your progeny will pay the interest forever. 
 The fundamental fix for all this is deficit reduction. A substantial amount of revenue can -- and should -- be raised by reversing Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy, generally defined as the top 2 percent of taxpayers, as well as by retaining and reforming the estate tax. But that won't be enough to make real progress, especially if, as Mr. Kerry proposes, the money is used to provide health insurance and other benefits. Thus, a serious attempt to tame the deficit must put on the table the option of reversing the Bush tax-rate cuts further down the income ladder. If the pre-Bush tax rates were restored for the top 25 percent of taxpayers, a vast majority of filers -- in the 15 percent tax bracket and below -- would still be shielded from an increased burden. 
 The next president and Congress should also raise money from alternative sources so income taxes and spending cuts are not the only way to reduce the deficit. A good place to start would be an increased federal gasoline tax and a new tax on industrial carbon emissions, greenhouse gases that lead to global warming. Each tax change would pull triple duty by raising revenue, reducing dependence on foreign oil and helping the environment. 
 Of the two candidates, Mr. Kerry is more credible on deficit reduction. The tax breaks he contemplates are not as grandiose as Mr. Bush's. More important, unlike Mr. Bush, he has said that he will require Congress to pay for new tax cuts and spending increases by saving money elsewhere in the budget.
 These are no small matters. The greater the president's fiscal credibility, the greater the confidence of lenders and financial markets. Still, the leader who restores the nation's fiscal health will need to do more than has been put forth during this campaign, or risk being forced to act by circumstances beyond his control.

Campaign 2004/The Big Issues: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); MEDICARE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Taxation; Editorials; Surveys and Series; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



485 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Financing West Side Development Is Called 'Extremely Risky'

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
City Comptroller William C. Thompson issued a strongly worded letter yesterday criticizing the Bloomberg administration's $3 billion financing plan for redeveloping the far West Side of Manhattan as an ''extremely risky'' strategy that could jeopardize the city's ability to use its tax dollars to pay for essential services.
 Pledging city income tax revenue to the plan ''is not only fiscally imprudent,'' Mr. Thompson wrote to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, ''it also flouts the principles of responsible government.''
 The comptroller also criticized the administration's decision to bypass the City Council's review process for the plan, ''removing the public's only opportunity for meaningful and serious review of the merits of your plan against other priorities, such as the construction of schools or senior centers.'' 
 To pay for the city's plans, which include extending the No. 7 subway line, building a platform over a railyard, and creating new streets and parks, the city plans to issue bonds to be paid off with the increased property tax revenue from new development prompted by the city's spending and a new football stadium. But if property tax revenue did not rise as quickly as expected, the bonds would be paid off by the city's Transitional Finance Authority, which uses city income tax revenue.
 The use of the Transitional Finance Authority was a ''troubling and inappropriate precedent,'' Mr. Thompson said, because it could force the city to divert income tax revenue from the general budget to pay off bondholders for $1 billion to $3 billion, if new property taxes proved insufficient.
 Mayor Bloomberg played down the role of the finance authority, telling reporters that ''the T.F.A. money is a very small amount of the total financing for the Hudson Yards.'' And he scoffed at the notion that his administration had avoided public review.
 ''There's probably no project in the history of the world that has had as extensive a public review and has had as many different legislative and public bodies that have to approve what goes on,'' the mayor said.
 The comptroller's remarks came as skirmishing over the stadium, the most controversial element of the West Side plans, is escalating. The Jets, who would move to the stadium from New Jersey, have been announcing endorsements from figures like former Mayor Edward I. Koch and Queens politicians, while producing pro-stadium television advertisements.
 At the same time, the New York Association for Better Choices, a coalition of neighborhood groups, some elected officials, Madison Square Garden and other businesses, has been spending tens of thousands of dollars on a television advertisement that stops just short of calling the mayor a liar over the stadium. The ads are paid for by Cablevision, which owns the Garden and regards the stadium as competition.
 The advertisement quotes Mayor Bloomberg as saying, ''We are not going to get the Olympics unless you have a stadium going.'' It continues: ''Mayor Bloomberg, that's simply not true. No Olympic host city has ever started a stadium before it was selected.'' The selection for the 2012 Olympics will be announced in July.
 While the International Olympic Committee does not require competing cities to build stadiums before selection, Mr. Bloomberg, who has publicly berated Cablevision for its opposition, said the company's conduct was ''far beyond the pale.'' He said Cablevision was deliberately trying to hurt others for their ''own selfish reasons.''
 Adding their voices to the opposition yesterday, Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum and a group of transit advocates held a news conference on the steps of City Hall, demanding that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority get a fair price for allowing the Jets to build a stadium over its railyards so that it can begin to address an $11.3 billion financing gap in its proposed $17 billion rebuilding plan. The Jets and the M.T.A. are negotiating over the matter.
 Mr. Thompson said he did not want to comment on the stadium and other elements of the city's plan because he thought it would distract from the issues he was raising.
 Mr. Thompson's analysis echoes criticisms raised by the New York Public Interest Group, Citizens Union and the Regional Plan Association. In August, the city's Independent Budget Office said the administration's redevelopment plan posed ''significant risks for the city budget'' if its revenue projections fell short.
 Felix G. Rohatyn, a financier who was active in salvaging the city's budget during the fiscal crises of the 1970's and 80's, said he respected Mayor Bloomberg's judgment. ''But given the current economic outlook,'' Mr. Rohatyn said, ''it is a project that carries significant risk.''
 What makes Mr. Thompson's remarks more potent is that he is one of five board members of the financing authority, and is listened to by bond raters and investors. In an interview yesterday, he said he would ''absolutely'' vote against using authority money for the West Side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BONDS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); MAYORS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (78%); BOND ISSUES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; City Councils; Football; Stadiums and Arenas 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Charles V Bagli; William C (Comptroller) Thompson; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; West Side (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



486 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: WINNING THE PEACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3584 words

HEADLINE: Debate Lingering on Decision To Dissolve the Iraqi Military

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
When Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus flew to Baghdad on June 14, 2003, he had a blunt message for the American-led occupation authority. As the commander of the 101st Airborne Division, General Petraeus had been working tirelessly to win the support of Iraqis in Mosul and the neighboring provinces in northern Iraq.
 But the authority's decree to abolish the Iraqi Army and to forgo paying 350,000 soldiers had jolted much of Iraq. Riots had broken out in cities. Just the day before, 16 of General Petraeus's soldiers had been wounded trying to put down a violent demonstration.
 Arriving at the huge Abu Ghraib North Palace for a ceremony, General Petraeus spied Walter B. Slocombe, an adviser to L. Paul Bremer III, who headed the authority. Sidling up to him, General Petraeus said that the decision to leave the soldiers without a livelihood had put American lives at risk. 
 More than a year later, Mr. Bremer's disbanding of the Iraqi Army still casts a shadow over the occupation of Iraq. The American military had been counting on using Iraqi soldiers to help rebuild the country and impose order along its borders. Instead, as a violent insurgency convulsed the nation, United States forces found themselves deprived of a way to put an Iraqi face on the occupation.
 While Mr. Bremer soon reversed himself on paying salaries to the ex-soldiers, his decision to formally dissolve the Iraqi military and methodically build a new one, battalion by battalion, still ranks as one of the most contentious issues of the post-war.
 Mr. Slocombe argues that the move was necessary to establish an Iraqi military that was not tainted by corruption and was acceptable to ethnic groups that had long been repressed by Saddam Hussein's military. He also says that it was the only possible course because so many Iraqi soldiers had fled their posts and drifted back into the population and military bases had been picked clean by looters.
 But senior American generals were privately urging a much different approach, according to interviews with military and civilian officials. Top commanders were meeting secretly with former Iraqi officers to discuss the best way to rebuild the force and recall Iraqi soldiers back to duty when Mr. Bremer arrived in Baghdad with his plan. 
 ''It was absolutely the wrong decision,'' said Col. Paul Hughes of the Army, who served as an aide to Jay Garner, a retired three-star general and the first civilian administrator of Iraq. ''We changed from being a liberator to an occupier with that single decision,'' he said. ''By abolishing the army, we destroyed in the Iraqi mind the last symbol of sovereignty they could recognize and as a result created a significant part of the resistance.''

Drafting the Plan
 When the Bush administration first began to plan for post-war Iraq in early 2003, disbanding the Iraqi military was not part of the strategy. Douglas J. Feith, the under secretary of defense, outlined a policy for retaining and retraining the existing Iraqi military in a March 2003 meeting of the National Security Council that President Bush attended.
 The idea, which was developed with General Garner, was to take existing units, remove high-level Baathists and supporters of Saddam Hussein, and put the soldiers to work. The Iraqi military, Pentagon officials reasoned, would have its own transport and could help with the reconstruction, functioning as a kind of modern day Civilian Conservation Corps. Units that proved themselves capable and politically reliable could help the American military maintain order.
 At the White House meeting, Mr. Feith made another argument for using the existing army. Iraq was racked by unemployment and taking 350,000 armed men, cutting off their income and, in effect, throwing them out on the street could be disastrous.
 American commanders also backed that approach. In a March 2003 meeting with a team of visiting Pentagon officials, General John P. Abizaid, then Gen. Tommy Franks's deputy, expressed concerns that the Americans would arouse resentment if they enforced security in Iraq largely by themselves. He favored a quick turnover of power to an interim Iraqi authority and the use of Iraqi forces to complement and eventually replace the Americans. 
 ''We must in all things be modest,'' General Abizaid said, according to notes taken by a Pentagon official. ''We are an antibody in their culture.''
 There was a military imperative as well. The American commanders knew they might have sufficient forces to oust Mr. Hussein, but it would be difficult to control a large nation with 25 million people and porous borders with Syria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Kuwait. The V Corps, which oversaw United States Army forces in Iraq, wanted Iraqi Army units to patrol the borders to block terrorists, jihadists and Iranian- sponsored groups from sneaking into the country and to prevent loyalists and possible caches of unconventional weapons from getting out, a former V Corps officer said. 
 The Bush administration did not just discuss keeping the old army. General Garner's team found contractors to retrain it. MPRI, a consulting company based in Alexandria, Va., and run by Carl Vuono, a retired general and former Army chief of staff, received an initial contract for $625,000. The company sent a nine-member team to Kuwait to begin creating a program to involve former Iraqi soldiers in reconstruction. 
 RONCO, a Washington consulting company, developed a proposal to screen Iraqi soldiers so they could join a new fighting force or be retrained for other duties. The company drew up a detailed plan for three screening centers in northern, central and southern Iraq. 
 Civilian and military planners had been actively encouraging Iraqi Army units to surrender en masse or to flee and not fight for Mr. Hussein. There were indications the Iraqis would do just that. Faced with advancing American and British troops and a furious barrage from the air, most of the enemy soldiers fled in the first days of the war instead of surrendering. Still, the American generals decided it was vital to use the Iraqi forces, who many officers figured had done what they had been asked.

The New Iraqi Military
 On April 17, little more than a week after American troops first entered Baghdad, General Abizaid joined in a satellite video conference with senior officials, including Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary. General Abizaid noted that no Iraqi units were still in place but urged that the United States form a three-division interim Iraqi military using units that had ''self-demobilized'' as well as members of opposition groups, who would be invited to appear at processing centers.
 In Iraq, the American generals were trying to field a new Iraqi military. On May 9, Lt. Gen. David McKiernan and other senior officers met with Faris Naima, a former Iraqi officer, in a meeting coordinated by a C.I.A. official in Baghdad. 
 Mr. Naima had the professional bearing of a soldier and spoke fluent English. He had been the commander of Al Bakr Military College, a training ground for Iraq's top officers. Suspect politically, but still valued by Mr. Hussein's government, he was appointed as the Iraqi ambassador to the Philippines and then Austria. According to a report by Kuna, the Kuwaiti news agency, Mr. Hussein's son Qusay ordered him and his wife to return to Baghdad after their tour in Vienna, but Mr. Naima refused.
 Wearing a frayed business suit at the meeting with the American generals, Mr. Naima pulled out a folded piece of paper from his jacket that outlined his plan for how to proceed. 
 Because looting had broken out in Baghdad and crime was rampant, he said a show of power was needed. The most important thing, he said, was security. He also said the Americans had to act fast to get the Iraqi noncommissioned officers and the police back to work, according to an officer who was present.
 Mr. Naima urged the Americans to establish three- Iraqi military divisions, which would be deployed in northern, central and southern Iraq. An army company would be stationed in each major town to back up the police. Mr. Naima said there were plenty of potential military leaders who were not committed Baathists. The idea, he said, would be to start at the top, create a new Iraqi Ministry of Defense, and then work down. All the officers would be required to denounce the Baath Party.
 When the Americans wondered where they would find the officers, Mr. Naima had an answer. I can bring them to you, he told the generals.
 He also offered some political advice. The Americans should announce a departure plan so Iraqis did not view them as occupiers. And they had to pay the military, the police and the bureaucrats. Iraq was a nation of civil servants, he said, and they needed their salaries to survive.
 The Americans were impressed. They thought they could work from the top down as well from the bottom up to summon Iraqi soldiers to duty, screen them and quickly install a new force.
 While the American generals and the C.I.A. were working on reviving the army, General Garner's occupation authority was making parallel efforts. Soon after arriving in Baghdad, one of his top planners, Colonel Hughes of the Army, heard from an officer in the 101st Airborne Division, whose troops were patrolling Baghdad. Some former Iraqi officers had told the Americans they wanted to receive their salaries.
 After securing approval from senior officers, Colonel Hughes met with the group at the officers' club of the Iraqi Republican Guard. The men, calling themselves the Independent Military Gathering, said they wanted to cooperate with the Americans. Though many wanted to work outside the military, they were willing to supply names of potential recruits, including lower ranking noncommissioned officials. Before the war, they had had removed computers containing military personnel records from the Iraqi Defense Ministry. Eventually, they gave the Americans a list of some 50,000 to 70,000 names, including the military police.
 In Washington, though, Mr. Bremer was developing a dramatically different approach. A boyish-looking former diplomat, Mr. Bremer was to replace General Garner in May. He would become known in Baghdad for his take-charge personality and his trademark desert boots worn with Brooks Brothers suits. 
 He believed that many of the problems with violence and crime that the United States faced in Iraq stemmed from Iraqi fears that Mr. Hussein and his Baathist supporters might outlast the American occupiers and claw their way back to power. He wanted to take bold action to demonstrate that the Baathists were through, once and for all. 
 In a memo to the Pentagon, Mr. Bremer , noted his desire that ''my arrival in Iraq be marked by clear, public and decisive steps to reassure Iraqis that we are determined to eradicate Saddamism.'' While his main purpose was to promote the de-Baathification of Iraq, plans to abolish Mr. Hussein's army soon became part of the initiative. Mr. Slocombe, who was under secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, recommended that the Iraqi military and the Ministry of Defense be formally eliminated. 
 As he saw it, the Iraqi Army had gone AWOL. There were no longer intact divisions, and many military vehicles and bases had been looted. Moreover, Mr. Slocombe thought the force was corrupt and dominated by Sunni officers. He did not believe it was feasible to recall the existing army and felt there was no choice but to build a new one from scratch. 
 After he arrived in Iraq, Mr. Slocombe met with Mr. Naima, former Iraqi officers and General McKiernan. Mr. Slocombe thanked the Iraqi officers but made it clear that he did not view them as the nucleus of a new Iraqi command, a participant said. It was a blow not only to the Iraqis but to the American military officers who thought they were identifying senior officers to help remake the army. 
 Mr. Feith, the senior deputy to Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, said in an interview that Mr. Bremer's thinking represented a necessary shift. Mr. Feith said that using the Iraqi Army had seemed sensible because the value of putting an intact army to use outweighed the disadvantages of using a potentially corrupt force.
 ''It made sense at first to say we are going to use them,'' Mr. Feith said. ''When we saw that the Army did not remain in units, that the people disappeared, that looters had stripped all of the infrastructure, all of the various pros that weighed in favor of using the army had been negated by events. And we were left with the cons, a bad, corrupt, cruel and undemocratic army.'' 
 After arriving in Iraq, Mr. Bremer formally issued Order No. 2, The Dissolution of Entities, which abolished the army. 
 The order, dated May 23, noted that the occupation authority planned to create in the near future the New Iraqi Corps as the first step in forming a national self-defense capability for a free Iraq. But the schedule for building that force was methodical and no one who had served in the Iraqi military at the rank of colonel and above was to be recruited without thorough vetting. There were provisions for making a termination payment to officers who were mustered out, but salaries would no longer be paid. There was no mention of a program to retrain the troops for other tasks.

The Administration's Role
 The role of top Bush administration officials in approving the plan is unclear. Mr. Slocombe said the decision was the subject of extensive consultations with senior Defense Department officials in Washington. A draft of Mr. Bremer's decree abolishing the army, he said, was sent to Mr. Rumsfeld before it was issued.
 Lawrence Di Rita, Mr. Rumsfeld's spokesman, said in an e-mail message that the issue was not taken up by cabinet-level officials and was ''definitely not one that the secretary of defense decided.'' 
 General Peter Pace of the Marines, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the Joint Chiefs were not consulted about the decision. 
 Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, indicated that the idea did not originate in the National Security Council but acknowledged that the White House did not object. 
 ''I don't think that anybody thought it was wildly out of context with what we were trying to achieve and the whole structure had been set up so that some of those decisions could be made in the field or through the Pentagon chain,'' she said in an interview. 
 In the field, however, the plan was more contentious than many in Washington realized. Much of the debate did not concern the abolition of the army but the subsequent plan overseen by Mr. Slocombe to establish a new army from the ground up. 
 Under his schedule, which Mr. Slocombe said was worked out with military planners, it would take a year to field the first division of infantry -- about 12,000 Iraqi troops -- and two years to train and equip a three-division force. To avoid the taint of Baathism, no one from the rank of colonel and above could join without vetting.
 The military did not like that approach. The commanders did not care whether the army was formally disbanded as long as a new one was quickly assembled to take its place. But General Abizaid wanted Iraqi soldiers available in several months, not several years, planners at his command said. 
 When Col. John Agoglia, the liaison between the occupation authority and General Franks of the Central Command, learned of the plan, he quickly called the military headquarters in Qatar.
 ''There was a debate, which was not whether to formally disband the old army and not primarily about whether to recall old units,'' Mr. Slocombe said in an interview. ''It was whether to put the process to train, equip and mold an Iraqi army under the command of select former Iraqi generals.''
 Mr. Slocombe said that his approach was no slower than that advocated by American commanders, because the extensive looting of the bases would have hindered retraining. He argued that his plan would produce a more reliable ally, not a Sunni-led force that would not be accepted by the Shiites and other ethnic group. 
 A former planner from General Franks's command strongly disagreed. ''We wanted to rapidly call the soldiers back, get them on our side and then sort out who could and could not be trusted,'' said the planner, who did not want to be identified because he did want to be publicly caught up in the controversy. ''It would have been a lot faster than building one battalion at a time. And we wanted to send a psychological message that they were going to be part of the new Iraq, to prevent them from turning against us.'' 
 General Garner, who was winding up his service in Iraq at that time, was also opposed. He said he had not been given advance notice of the plan. ''What was happening was that hundreds of Iraqi soldiers were just beginning to come back,'' Mr. Garner said. ''We could have brought back and paired them up in former units. Instead, we just shut the door on them.'' 
 General Franks and his commanders were in an awkward position, trying to influence a decision that already had been made. In late May, Rear Admiral James A. Robb, the Central Command's chief planning officer, told Mr. Slocombe that General Abizaid believed that former senior Iraqi officers should not be disqualified and that the training should be accelerated. General Franks followed up in a video conference on June 2 with Mr. Bremer. 
 ''I think the velocity of doing it can be characterized as a miscalculation,'' General Franks said about the plan in an interview.
 He also urged Mr. Bremer to pay the demobilized soldiers, who had few job prospects in a nation with soaring unemployment rates. General Petraeus reinforced that message when he ran into Mr. Slocombe at the military ceremony in Baghdhad two weeks later. 
 In a compromise, Mr. Slocombe agreed that senior Iraqi officers could serve on an advisory board, but without the prospect of command, the idea soon withered. 
 Soon after Mr. Bremer issued his order abolishing the army, the occupation authority made a discovery. He had initially decided to bar officers from the rank of colonel and above unless they could prove they were not high-ranking Baathists. But an examination of personnel records showed that important Baathists did not appear in large numbers until the rank of major general. Even then, only 50 per cent of those officers were affected. That was the point Mr. Naima had made with General McKiernan. 
 There was another problem with the plans for the Iraqi Army. The acronym for the New Iraqi Corps turned out to be a profanity in Arabic, so the name had to be changed.

Stretching the Military
 As the insurgency took root in the volatile Sunni Triangle and in other Iraqi cities, the United States military was finding itself increasingly stretched thin. At the same time General Abizaid was pressing Mr. Bremer and Mr. Slocombe to speed up the training of the military, he also urged that a militia be established to help fill the security gap. But members of the new Iraqi Civil Defense Corps lived at home and were not a national force. 
 Mr. Slocombe and Maj. General Paul D. Eaton, who was brought in to oversee the training of the army, drafted a new plan to accelerate it, taking advantage of an agreement to train Iraqi officers in Jordan. 
 When fighting erupted in Falluja earlier this year, however, the newly trained Iraqi security forces did not acquit themselves well. An Iraqi Army unit showed little stomach for battle. When ordered to join American marines in combat, the soldiers refused to board a helicopter to take them to the town, saying they would not bear arms against fellow Iraqis. 
 In June, almost a year after he voiced his concerns about the initial decision not to pay the army, General Petraeus was appointed to a new post: training the new Iraqi Army. 
 In recognition of Iraq's new sovereignty, a veteran Iraqi general is serving as the army chief of staff, and some senior officers have been recruited. General Petraeus has trained one brigade of a new intervention force to fight insurgents and another brigade of regular army troops. He intends to have a division of each by January 
 But he -- and his military and civilian bosses -- have a larger goal in mind. By having an Iraqi army that can defeat the insurgency and secure the peace, they know, the Americans eventually can go home. ''I know where this ends,'' General Petraeus said when he took on his new post. ''It ends with the Iraqis in charge of their country.''

'Catastrophic Success'
 Michael R. Gordon, the chief military correspondent of The Times, covered the war in Iraq and its aftermath. He reported from the allied land forces command and from several United States Army divisions. 
 Since then, he has been reporting on the conflict for a book to be published in 2005 by Pantheon Books, a unit of the Knopf Publishing Group. 
 Articles in this series on American preparations for the war and its aftermath draw on dozens of interviews with current and former military officers and occupation officials, as well as officials at the Pentagon and the White House. They also draw on government documents. 
 Christopher Mann, Jeremiah Cushman, Mike Alpern and Thomas Hommel served as researchers for this report.
 Video of Michael R. Gordon, additional photographs and previous articles in the series are online: nytimes.com/international.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TEACHING IRAQIS TO FIGHT -- Iraqi recruits at a training complex in Tikrit last month, where Americans oversaw Iraqis preparing recruits for combat. American officials have differed over the training of Iraqis. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 IRAQIS IN INSURGENCY'S CROSSFIRE -- An Iraqi national guardsman, wounded when Americans came under heavy fire in August during a search in Najaf, was taken to a forward operating base for treatment. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A13)Chart/Photos: ''A Fateful Decision''The decision to disband the Iraqi Army and create a new force from the ground up was a matter of sharp disagreement in the summer of 2003.CIVILIANSL. Paul Bremer IIIAs the top American administrator in Iraq, he disbanded the Iraqi Army on May 23, 2003. The decision was part of a broader plan to promote the de-Baathification of Iraqi institutions and eradicate ''Saddamism.''Walter B. SlocombeThe American official in charge of rebuilding Iraq's security institutions, he said it was not feasible to recall the existing army. He said building a new army would produce a more reliable ally, not a Sunni-led force unacceptable to the Shiites and Kurds.Douglas J. FeithThe undersecretary of defense for policy, he briefed the president in March 2003 on a plan that called for retraining existing Iraqi forces, but backed Mr. Bremer's approach after Iraqi units largely dissipated in the invasion.Jay GarnerRetired army lieutenant general who preceded Mr. Bremer as the chief occupation official in Iraq, he favored recalling the existing Iraqi Army and insisted the soldiers were just starting to return when Mr. Bremer issued his decree.MILITARYLt. Gen. David H. PetraeusCommander of the 101st Airborne Division in 2003, he warned Mr. Slocombe that forgoing payments to former Iraqi soldiers could cause American casualties. He is now in charge of training the new Iraqi Army.Gen. John P. AbizaidAs deputy to Gen. Tommy R. Franks, head of the United States Central Command, he stressed the need to put an Iraqi face on security. After the fall of Baghdad, he advocated recalling ''self-demobilized'' units to form a three-division interim Iraqi military.Lt. Gen. David McKiernanCommander of coalition land forces, he and a C.I.A. official were meeting with former Iraqi officers to discuss ways to rebuild the Iraqi Army when Mr. Bremer issued the decree. One of them, Faris Naima, provided a list of potential officers. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); RIOTS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); TERRORISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (63%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (63%); CORRUPTION (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) Surveys and Series; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Michael R Gordon; L Paul III Bremer; Saddam Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush; Walter B Slocombe

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004



487 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Anthrax Figure Wins A Round on News Sources

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
In a development that could undercut reporters' ability to obtain confidential information, Justice Department officials agreed Thursday to distribute to dozens of federal investigators in the 2001 anthrax case a document they can sign to release journalists from pledges of confidentiality.
 Lawyers for Steven J. Hatfill, a former Army bioterrorism expert, had sought the releases as a step toward questioning reporters about their sources in the case. Dr. Hatfill, who has been described by Attorney General John Ashcroft as a ''person of interest'' in the anthrax investigation, is suing the government over leaks of a variety of information suggesting his guilt.
 Experts on journalism and the law said the releases -- first used in another case, involving a leak of the identity of Valerie Plame, an undercover officer for the Central Intelligence Agency -- could erode government employees' confidence that they can provide information to reporters without fear of being later identified and punished. 
 These experts said being presented such a form could pose an excruciating dilemma for news sources. If they refuse to sign, superiors may suspect that they were the source of a leak. If they did leak information and then do sign, they risk being identified by the reporter as the source. 
 Lucy Dalglish, executive director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, said it was ''ridiculous'' to think that waivers sent by the Justice Department to its employees would be viewed as voluntary.
 ''The ultimate result of this,'' Ms. Dalglish said, ''will be that in the future, less information will get to the public.''
 The experts said the use of release forms in the Hatfill case suggested that the practice of asking people whom reporters may have promised anonymity to then permit the release of their names could become routine. Documents filed by Dr. Hatfill's lawyers already refer to the forms as ''Plame waivers,'' as if they were an established legal tool.
 Justice Department lawyers said Thursday that under the new agreement, they would send the release forms, beginning in about four weeks, to at least 80 people who have worked on the government's investigation of the anthrax-laced letters that killed 5 people in the fall of 2001 and made at least 17 others ill. The list of those who are to receive the forms includes Mr. Ashcroft and Robert S. Mueller, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as numerous F.B.I. agents, postal inspectors and federal prosecutors.
 The releases will be accompanied by a letter advising the recipients that signing them is voluntary. Waivers that are signed will be passed on to Dr. Hatfill's lawyers, who can then present them to reporters in an effort to persuade them to disclose who gave them information about Dr. Hatfill.
 Reggie B. Walton, the federal district judge overseeing the Hatfill case, first allowed the plaintiff's lawyers to question reporters last March. But they have not yet sought to do so, maintaining that case law first required them to exhaust all other routes before pursuing journalists. 
 At a hearing Thursday before Judge Walton, Justice Department lawyers and Dr. Hatfill's portrayed the waivers as a compromise that would advance proceedings in the lawsuit without interfering with the criminal investigation of the anthrax case by requiring depositions from a large number of investigators.
 ''All that's affected by the waiver is a private promise of confidentiality,'' said Mark A. Grannis, a Washington lawyer who is representing Dr. Hatfill. ''We want that waived precisely so that we don't have to depose investigators but can get the information from reporters.''
 Elizabeth J. Shapiro, a lawyer in the Justice Department's civil division, called the decision to distribute the release forms to anthrax investigators ''an extraordinary concession.''
 ''We will work as fast as we can,'' Ms. Shapiro added, ''to get these waivers to our people and back to the plaintiff's counsel.''
 As a ''person of interest'' in the anthrax case, Dr. Hatfill, 50, of Washington, was trailed by F.B.I. surveillance teams for months. He has denied any connection to the anthrax letters and has said that being treated as a suspect has made him unemployable and wrecked his life.
 In addition to suing the F.B.I. and the Justice Department, he has filed defamation lawsuits against The New York Times, for columns about him by Nicholas D. Kristof, and against Vanity Fair magazine, for an article by Don Foster, a Vassar College professor who has analyzed documents in criminal cases.
 None of the discussion in the hourlong court hearing Thursday touched on the question of the waivers' effect on journalism and public information. But legal specialists said the impact could be profound, making government whistle-blowers and other sources reluctant to share information with reporters.
 Bruce W. Sanford, a Washington lawyer specializing in media law, called use of the releases ''outrageous'' and said it ''shows a fundamental failure to understand the role the press plays in our society.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHRAX (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); LITIGATION (77%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JUDGES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); WILLS (50%) Anthrax; News Sources, Confidential Status of; News and News Media; Suits and Litigation; Terrorism; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Freedom of the Press; Anthrax

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%) Justice Department; Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press

PERSON: Scott Shane; Steven J (Dr) Hatfill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



488 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Three Designs Unveiled for Arena in Newark

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, OCT. 21 

 BODY:
Newark officials unveiled three architectural designs on Thursday night for a proposed sports arena that the city hopes will lead to a sweeping redevelopment of its downtown.
 The designs for the $355 million, 18,000-seat arena, which would be the home of the New Jersey Devils hockey team, ranged from a Roman Colosseum-like oval to the layered curves of a design that simulated a sheath of melting ice.
 The design competition is the latest phase of a five-year effort to build the sports arena in Newark, the state's largest city. 
 The plan, which has been dogged by political and financial setbacks under three governors, now appears near finalization. 
 While there are some local hurdles and pockets of opposition, the sole remaining questions seem to be the viability of the National Hockey League, which has shut down due to a labor dispute, and the continued willingness of the Devils' owners to put up their $100 million share of the arena cost.
 The arena, which would be bounded by Market, Mulberry, Lafayette and Broad Streets, is expected to spur office and retail development that would fit in with other city plans to building upscale housing in a new downtown community.
 ''This arena is part of a holistic redevelopment plan,'' Mayor Sharpe James said at the presentation at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center. 
 The idea of a design competition, said the city administrator, Richard Monteilh, harks back a century ago when Newark's leaders held a competition that resulted in the design of its ornate, gold-domed Beaux-Arts City Hall, which opened in 1908.
 That was a golden age for the city, he said, adding, ''We are again resurging as a powerhouse city in America, and we want this building to exemplify that.''
 One of the designs, by Morris Adjmi Architects of New York, chose the Colosseum as its model, a large tiered oval in dark red brick that evoked Newark's past as a center of brick making. The facade tiers are punctuated by iron columns, and the structure is capped by a sleek pediment.
 Mr. Adjmi said that the black of the iron and the red of the brick on the arena also evoked the team colors of the Devils.
 Another design, by the Hillier Group of Princeton, employed a distinctive roof for the glass- and steel-walled arena that looked like two silvery leaves angled over the top and cantilevered over the sides of the building. The design would be both grand and functional, said Robert Hillier, the head of the firm.
 Another proposal from Kohn Pederson Fox Associates of New York, showed a translucent, curving and tiered design that seemed to encase the inside of the arena in ice while surrounding it with other buildings of more solid materials.
 The shell would include low-resolution L.E.D. screens which could animate the walls with messages about events and even advertising.
 ''A building has to not only communicate with its place but communicate with the world,'' said William Pederson, the firm's founder.
 Newark residents will be invited to comment on the three designs, Mr. Monteilh said, but the final decision will be made by a group made up of the Devils management and city officials.


GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the three finalists for the design of a new arena planned for downtown Newark. Officials want the New Jersey Devils to play there. (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MAYORS (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); TRENDS (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (65%) Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Stadiums and Arenas; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hockey, Ice

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (93%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%) New Jersey Devils; Adjmi, Morris, Architects; Hillier Group; Kohn Pederson Fox Associates

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



489 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: A Struggle Over Air Routes in East Asia

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
The pact by Cathay Pacific Airways on Wednesday to buy a stake in Air China has highlighted a struggle across East Asia, and especially in Hong Kong and mainland China, over how vigorously airlines should be allowed to compete with each other on international routes.
 At stake is the world's fastest-growing regional aviation market, with China at its core. The fight over market access has drawn not only airlines but investment bankers seeking deals and consultants, lawyers and lobbyists seeking contracts.
 At the heart of the debate lies Hong Kong, home to Asia's biggest airport for international passenger traffic and the world's biggest hub for international air cargo shipments. Many of the arguments here echo those at hubs dominated by a single carrier in the United States. 
 Cathay Pacific is the biggest carrier here, and has opposed allowing other airlines, especially American and Australian carriers, greater rights to fly through Hong Kong and pick up passengers to carry to other Asian destinations. At the same time, however, Cathay and the Hong Kong government have been pressing Beijing to allow more flights between Hong Kong and mainland Chinese cities.
 The most immediate question now is whether Cathay's planned 9.9 percent stake in the state-owned Air China will help soften objections from Beijing to allowing more Cathay flights to the mainland. Beijing has strictly limited the number of these flights while trying to prepare its domestic carriers for international competition, though it raised the ceiling somewhat last month and has allowed more nonstop flights lately from the United States.
 Antony Tyler, who oversees Cathay's route negotiations as its director of corporate development, said at a forum on Thursday that the Air China deal made sense even leaving aside the prospect of greater access to the Chinese market. ''This is an investment, and getting additional traffic rights into China is a totally separate issue,'' he said.
 But earlier in the forum, Mr. Tyler also voiced Cathay's continued desire to offer flights from Hong Kong to Shanghai. Dragonair, which has the Chinese government as its biggest single stakeholder although Cathay also owns a sixth of the shares, conducts a thriving business on the route now.
 Hong Kong has moved slowly but steadily to allow more flights from other countries, sometimes over the objections of Cathay but not fast enough to suit FedEx Express, in particular. FedEx is now in talks to open an Asian hub 80 miles up the Pearl River in Guangzhou instead, and has been strongly critical of Cathay.
 ''When you look at Hong Kong, Hong Kong is a market of monopolies and duopolies,'' said David Cunningham, the president of Asian and Pacific operations for FedEx. ''My concern for Hong Kong is that, living here and loving it, the world has moved beyond that.''
 Cathay Pacific carries a third of the passengers passing through Hong Kong; it holds its minority stake in Dragonair, which has another tenth of the market; and is now moving to invest in Air China, with another several percentage points of the traffic here.
 Limits on competition have tended to mean high prices but also superb service. Cathay's numerous and fast-moving flight attendants manage to serve every economy-class passenger a hot meal even during 80-minute flights aboard packed jumbo jets to Taipei.
 Mr. Tyler acknowledged that air fares here are somewhat higher than in other markets, but attributed this to longstanding factors, notably differences in exchange rates. He insisted that Hong Kong was a competitive market, adding that Dragonair and Cathay compete not only with each other but with at least one other carrier on every route.
 Last year's lethal outbreak here of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, underlined the value to Hong Kong of having a locally based carrier, because other airlines were quick to suspend service here while Cathay kept flying, Mr. Tyler said. ''We kept Hong Kong connected to the world,'' he added.
 In a gibe at the United States, which has sought greater access for its carriers here over the years, Sandra Lee, Hong Kong's permanent secretary for economic development, pointed out that Hong Kong's policies did not include giving so-called soft loans to airlines or allowing airlines to take refuge from creditors in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.
 As in Europe, decades of nationalistic policies in Asia aimed at protecting flag carriers from foreign competition are gradually being dismantled. Limits on the numbers of international flights between cities are being slowly raised and, in some cases, eliminated entirely.
 Together with the arrival of budget carriers like Air Asia of Malaysia and Virgin Blue of Australia that make use of the expanded air service rights, the new freedom to compete is forcing established airlines to control costs and, in some cases, reduce fares.
 Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand have led the trend toward so-called open skies, drawing more passengers through their airports as a result, sometimes at the expense of Hong Kong. 
 Mr. Tyler said that after concluding Wednesday's deal, he celebrated at an Eagles concert that night. He added, ''If I were Lufthansa and United, which have clearly courted Air China, I'm sure I'd think, 'What is this all going to amount to?'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cathay Pacific is the biggest carrier in Hong Kong and has opposed allowing other airlines greater rights to fly through to pick up passengers. (Photo by Paul Hilton/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7)Chart: ''Up, Up and Away''International air traffic has risen across Asia, creating more competition.INTERNATIONAL AIR PASSENGERS, FIRST HALF OF EACH YEAR, IN MILLIONS*Hong Kong2004: 17.21999: 14.2Tokyo2004: 14.71999: 12.1Singapore2004: 14.41999: 12.5Bangkok+2004: 13.11999: 9.8Seoul+2004: 11.21999: 7.4Taipei2004: 9.61999: 8.3*Figures are the sum of international departures and arrivals. All flights between jurisdictions with separate air traffic rights are considered international, including those among mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.+Estimates(Sources by Center for Asia Pacific Aviation
the airports
 ACI)(pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); AIR SERVICE (77%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); AIR FREIGHT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (92%); AIR CHINA LTD (90%); FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Cathay Pacific Airways; Air China

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (92%); AIRC (LSE) (90%); 0753 (HKSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (62%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (62%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (98%); ASIA (96%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Hong Kong; China

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



490 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Recall Hurts Merck Profits; Lilly's Earnings Rise 5.7%
Merck, hurt by the recall of its Vioxx painkiller, said its third-quarter earnings dropped 29 percent. Its profit of 60 cents a share was lower than the 71-cent average of analysts' estimates. Another drug maker, Schering-Plough, posted its first profit in more than a year, with net income of $26 million in the quarter, helped by sales of its cholesterol drugs.
 Eli Lilly reported stronger profit and said it would cut jobs to lower expenses. [Page C3.]

Stewart's Lawyers File Appeal
Lawyers for Martha Stewart argued that her conviction on charges of lying to investigators should be overturned because of errors during her trial earlier this year. [C3.]

Verizon Expands Fiber Optic Lines
Verizon Communications plans to start providing fiber-optic lines for phone and data connections to homes in six Eastern states. [C2.]

SBC Profits Up; AT&T Posts Loss
SBC Communications, the regional Bell telephone company, and AT&T, the long-distance carrier, reported divergent third quarter earnings, reflecting the fallout from a court decision that favored the Bell companies. [C2.]

Qwest Communications International agreed to pay $250 million to settle accusations that it improperly booked $3.8 billion in revenue and misled investors about it. [C4.]

Judge Sides With Black & Decker
A federal judge ruled against the Internal Revenue Service in its bid to force Black & Decker to pay $140 million in taxes tied to a financial transaction that the agency questioned. [C2.]

Stock Market Keeps Eye on Oil
Stocks were mixed, with blue chips weighed down by uncertainty over oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 21.17 points, to 9,865.76, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.83 points, to 1,106.49. [C5.]

Mixed Signals on the Economy
A widely watched barometer of future economic activity edged lower last month, suggesting a slowdown. But the number of people signing up for jobless benefits for the first time fell sharply last week. [C5.]

Analyzing the Flu Vaccine Shortage
Public health experts say that relying on just two companies to supply all of the nation's flu vaccine needs was a mistake, and that the government should have used incentives to encourage production. [A12.]

Expert Witness Criticizes Ovitz
Disney should have fired Michael S. Ovitz, left, because of his dishonesty, a legal specialist testified in support of shareholders who are suing the company's directors over Mr. Ovitz's $140 million severance package. John J. Donohue III, a law professor at Yale, said there were ''good and sufficient grounds for termination'' under Mr. Ovitz's contract. [C3.]

Europe Compares Rules on Audits
European regulators plan to review the accounting standards of the United States, Canada and Japan to determine if companies that use them must provide more information before their securities can trade in Europe. [W1.]

Intel Won't Make Chips for TV's
Intel has scrapped a plan to make digital television chips, marking a retreat from its push into consumer electronics. The cancellation could ease competition for Texas Instruments, which has found success in that market. [C5.]

Trump in Deal With Bondholders
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts confirmed that it had reached an agreement with bondholders that would reduce its debt. [C3.]

An Overdose of Commercials
Viacom and Disney agreed to pay a total of $1.5 million to the Federal Communications Commission to settle accusations that they inserted too many commercials into children's television programming. Advertising. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,865.76 down 21.17Nasdaq composite -- 1,953.62 up 20.6510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.00% up 0.02The euro -- $1.2616 up 0.0029The dollar -- 107.45 yen down 0.74Graph tracks the share price of Eli Lilly since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); WITNESSES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); AUDITS (75%); JUDGES (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (72%); DRUG SHORTAGES (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); TAX LAW (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); EXPERT WITNESSES (65%); VACCINES (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); ACCOUNTING (61%); BUSINESS TORTS (60%); INFLUENZA (60%); CHOLESTEROL (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); AT&T INC (85%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); CENTURYLINK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (85%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



491 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Economic Index Slips Again, For a 4th Consecutive Month

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A widely watched barometer of future economic activity edged lower in September for the fourth month in a row, suggesting a slowdown in economic growth, a private research group reported yesterday.
 The Conference Board said that its composite index of leading economic indicators fell 0.1 percent last month, after declines of 0.3 percent in August, 0.3 percent in July and 0.1 percent in June.
 The group said that while the weakness in the economy had become more widespread over the last several months, the declines in the leading indicator index were not yet large enough to suggest that the current economic expansion was ending, nor had they lasted long enough to do so. 
 The index is closely followed because it is intended to forecast the economy's health over the coming three to six months.
 Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board, called the September decline a ''clear signal that the economy is losing momentum heading into 2005.''
 Mr. Goldstein said that the economy grew at an annual pace of nearly 4 percent in the third quarter, but was likely to expand more slowly in the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year. He said that rising energy prices and the hurricanes in September might have held back some sectors of the economy, like home building.
 The decline in the index was slightly smaller than the decline of 0.2 percent that some analysts had been expecting. 
 Josh Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset Management Americas, called the decline in the index of leading indicators consistent with other recent signs of a slight deceleration in the economy, but cautioned that signals remained mixed, making predictions difficult.
 For example, he cited a separate report from the Labor Department yesterday that showed a slight decline in the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits. He called this an indication that the labor market has been ''plodding toward improvement.''
 The Labor Department also reported that the number of people signing up for jobless benefits for the first time fell sharply last week, by a seasonally adjusted 25,000, to 329,000, the lowest number since early September. Claims had risen by 16,000 in the previous week.
 The report also showed that the number of people continuing to collect unemployment benefits fell by 8,000 to nearly 2.8 million for the week ended Oct. 9, the most recent period with that information available. That was an improvement from a year ago, when that figure stood at 3.5 million.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Jobless Claims''Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time from May-Oct. 2004.(Sources by Labor Department
Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 = 100.Graph tracks the index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity from April 2003-Sept. 2004.Sept.: -0.1%Aug.: -0.3July: -0.3(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); WEATHER (69%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Kenneth (Prof) Goldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



492 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Ferry Company Warns of Cuts Or a Shutdown

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
After years of expansion that helped to radically change the way thousands of New Yorkers and New Jersey residents get to work every day, the largest company providing ferry service in the metropolitan region has told transportation officials that it is in financial trouble and may be unable to continue providing service to its 38,000 daily commuters.
 The company, New York Waterway, has transportation officials scrambling to figure out how to fill the possible gap and maintain service along its routes up and down the Hudson River -- from Haverstraw in Rockland County, N.Y., to Belford in Monmouth County, N.J., with most also stopping in Midtown and the financial district in Lower Manhattan.
 Officials are concerned that a shutdown or even a reduction in service by New York Waterway could send commuters back onto highways, trains and buses, further clogging already congested commuter routes.
 The problem is an alarming development in what had been hailed as a renaissance in water-borne travel, a throwback to a more placid and environmentally friendly past. Much of the revival was sparked by Arthur E. Imperatore Sr., a former trucking executive, who turned a romantic notion of reviving ferry service in New York Harbor into New York Waterway, a multimillion-dollar company. The company went on to dominate the regional market. 
 But, in response to questions, Mr. Imperatore's son, Arthur Imperatore Jr., president of New York Waterway, said in a statement yesterday that the company was in talks with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to ''maintain continuity of ferry service to Lower Manhattan.'' The statement acknowledged a ''cash flow issue.'' 
 ''Because of substantial increases in the price of fuel, a diminished job market in Lower Manhattan and a greater-than-anticipated drop-off in ridership to Lower Manhattan occasioned by the resumption of PATH service, certain routes are not generating sufficient cash flow to sustain their continued operations,'' the statement said. 
 The problems have apparently persisted, despite a rise in the number of commuters in recent months and two fare increases in the last year. The average round-trip fare is $19.
 Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority, confirmed that New York Waterway had approached the agency with ''certain financial issues'' that were affecting ''their operating status.'' 
 Mr. Coscia said that members of the agency's staff have been meeting with New York Waterway officials to better assess their needs, and try to ensure that ferry service is maintained. 
 One Port Authority official said agency staff members believe that New York Waterway is not merely trying to squeeze financial aid or concessions out of the agency. The official said they believe the company is at the point where it wants the Port Authority or others to take over its service.
 Among the options that agency officials are said to be considering is asking the two smaller ferry operators -- New York Water Taxi and Seastreak -- whether they would be able to expand their service and take over some of the New York Waterway routes. 
 Officials are also considering whether they are able to subsidize operating costs for ferry service; ferries are the only mass transit means in the region that do not receive some form of direct government subsidy of operating costs. 
 To this point, the Port Authority and local governments have only invested in equipment and in ferry docks, with an estimated $100 million in mostly federal money spent in recent years on both sides of the Hudson.
 ''The ferry operations are critical and that makes New York Waterway's ability to operate important,'' Mr. Coscia said. ''They have 16 routes, and some are more viable than others. But at this point we are still studying the situation.''
 Some Port Authority officials said they did not know if even subsidies would be enough to keep the New York Waterway ferries in operation.
 For the last year the industry has seen reports of trouble for the company. But word of specific talks between the New York Waterway and the Port Authority marks a significant development. 
 Founded in 1986, the company was so shaky at first that some dubbed it ''Arthur's Folly,'' seeing it as no more than the dream of a man, now 77, willing to speculate on his hopes for a revival of waterbound commuting.
 After the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center in 2001 -- with the PATH train to Lower Manhattan out of service and many commuters seeking alternatives to the Hudson River tunnels and trains -- ridership soared, enabling the company to reap millions in profits. 
 New York Waterway, which used its ferries on Sept. 11 to evacuate people from the burning ruins of the twin towers area, was also the recipient of millions in federal assistance to provide additional service that could replicate the PATH rail schedules. 
 At one point, New York Waterway had 92 percent of a market that carried as many as 64,000 commuters a day between New Jersey terminals in Weehawken, Hoboken and Jersey City to Manhattan landings at Midtown, Battery Park City and Pier 11 near the tip of the island.
 The company acquired a ''favorite son'' status in the industry, according to competitors, and its officials seemed more than willing to throw their considerable political and economic weight around to get new routes and block attempts by others to compete.
 New York Waterway continued to expand its number of routes, even as smaller competitors began to draw off a larger share of the market, raising questions of whether the company had overextended its service.
 Further, after PATH service was restored to Lower Manhattan last December, ridership dropped. According to the latest Mayor's Management Report, overall ridership, which reached a record high of 64,063 a day in 2003 on the three private lines, dropped by 22 percent this year, though it has begun to climb again in recent months.
 According to others in the industry, Mr. Imperatore has also been hurt by an investigation by the United States attorney for the Southern District of Manhattan and the inspector general of the Port Authority into the company's use of about $27 million in federal funds and possible antitrust violations.
 One New York Waterway official said that the cost of defending the company has taken a toll on its bottom line.
 In addition, this year the company agreed to pay New York City about $800,000 to settle a dispute over landing fees for its ferries at city-owned docks.
 New York Waterway has also recently become the object of commuter complaints about poor service and shoddy equipment. Commuters banded together last year to form Ferry Friends. 
 The group has complained bitterly about the recent fare increases and urged riders to boycott the company's concessions at the ferry terminals.
 ''They have had two years to razzle-dazzle us and they haven't,'' said Deborah Jack, one of the organizers of the group, referring to New York Waterway's virtual dominance over ferry service. ''The service has deteriorated, on-time performance is down and there is an arrogance and blatant disregard of customers. People are sick and tired of monopoly.''
 While the extent of the privately held company's financial problems could not be determined, some Port Authority officials said that the losses were staggering and that the company ''wanted out'' of the ferry business.
 But the Port Authority officials said they were not willing to let the service lapse.
 ''We have a big stake in this,'' one agency commissioner said. 
 Some officials said the stake was so big, it could eventually mean that the Port Authority will take over ferry operations completely and run them through the agency, much the way the agency did four decades ago when it took over PATH service across the Hudson River to Manhattan.
 One of the crucial questions raised by the company's financial difficulties is what it means for the future of about $250 million in publicly financed ferry terminal construction on both sides of the river. New York Waterway had, in a move that angered other ferry companies, been designated the operator of those terminals, which represented the most tangible evidence of the government's stake in the future of ferry travel.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers at New York Waterway's terminal at West 38th Street in Manhattan. About 38,000 commuters ride the company's ferries daily. (Photo by Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart/Map: ''NY Waterway Ferry Stops''*Haverstraw to Ossining route not shown.Map of New Jersey, Manhattan and Brooklyn highlighting New York Waterway Ferry stops. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (94%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RIVERS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); TRAINS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (63%) Ferries; Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Transit Systems ; Ferries; Subways; Buses; Ferries

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%) New York Waterway (Co); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Port Authority Trans-Hudson Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; Charles V Bagli; Arthur Jr Imperatore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



493 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Isle Where Striped Bass Reign

BYLINE: By JAMES PROSEK

 BODY:
FOR years, Cuttyhunk Island has been a Mecca for striped bass fishermen, especially in autumn, when the bass congregate off its rocky shore on their migration south. According to ''The Wise Fisherman's Encyclopedia,'' published in 1951, Cuttyhunk is ''the Grand Central Station of north Atlantic striped bass fishing.''
 It is a little harder to get to than Grand Central itself though, especially now through April when the ferry from New Bedford, Mass., makes only one round trip a week, on Fridays, to this point at the end of the Elizabeth Island chain -- eight small islands projecting like a spur off Cape Cod's heel at Woods Hole. That is why on a recent chilly clear October afternoon, my friend Taylor Hoyt and I boarded Captain John Paul Hunt's Seahorse water taxi for the trip across Buzzard's Bay to Cuttyhunk, with warm clothes, fly and spin fishing equipment and a bucket of a dozen live eels. 
 Also on the boat was Ginny Doran, one of the island's 20 or so year-round residents, who had bought a load of baseboard radiators at Home Depot on the mainland and was taking them home to the island. Her two children, ages 5 and 10, are the only students at Cuttyhunk's one-room schoolhouse, built in 1873. ''It's great,'' she said. ''It's like home schooling.'' The teacher, Maggie Martin, 24, spends the school year on the island. In winter, mail comes only twice a week. 
 Cuttyhunk has no restaurants, but breakfasts and occasionally other meals are available at the two or three inns that go in and out of service depending on the whims of their owners and operators. One market sells basic canned foods, produce and meats. ''It's like nowhere else, really,'' Mrs. Doran said.
 Cuttyhunk was put on the map in the angling world by the Cuttyhunk Island Striped Bass Club, founded by New York and Philadelphia millionaires who bought most of the island in 1864. Their club was originally established on Sakonnet Point, R.I., but then the members discovered the more fertile waters to the east and built the club building that still stands on Cuttyhunk's south shore (it now operates as an inn). One photograph from 1902 shows several members of the club, including President Theodore Roosevelt; William Howard Taft, whose presidency was still ahead of him; and John D. Archibold, heir to the Standard Oil fortune. To communicate with their city offices while on fishing trips, the men used carrier pigeons. Today's visitors find that cellphone service is spotty.
 Meals and wines at the club were, as one would imagine, extravagant, but the primary reason for being there was the pursuit of striped bass, a beautiful silvery fish with dark horizontal stripes that extend from the end of the gill plate to the tail.
 Long wooden platforms anchored by iron spikes into the large boulders on the shore provided casting ''stands'' for the club members, who each had a ''chummer'' -- a man with a bucket of lobster tails and chopped up menhaden (a baitfish in the herring family) that he would throw into the water to summon the fish. 
 The angler who caught the largest striped bass each year was pronounced the ''High Hook.'' The fish that won an angler the position of ''High Hook'' usually ranged from 50 to 60 pounds, but in 1913 a club member caught an exceptional fish. News of Charles B. Church's 60-inch, 73-pound world record striped bass, caught in Vineyard Sound (actually just off neighboring Nashawena Island) from a small wooden skiff, enhanced Cuttyhunk's reputation as the best striped bass fishing destination in the world. 
 By 1921 the club had dissolved -- in part because of World War I and in part because of a diminished population of bass, probably because of overfishing (the club's total catches as documented in ''Sport with Gun and Rod,'' published in 1883, fell to 2,026 pounds in 1882 from 5,862 pounds in 1876). But the island's economy continued to rest heavily on the striped bass, and it remains a symbol of the small island community to this day. Whereas coastal churches from Boston to Maine often sport cupolas with weathervanes depicting cod, on Cuttyhunk the church weathervane is a striped bass. 
 Bruce Borges, the son of a Portuguese fisherman from New Bedford, met us at the ''fish dock,'' the communal meeting place in the well-protected harbor. He was driving a golf cart. There may be two or three cars on the island, but most people travel by foot or golf cart. 
 With his broad shoulders, flat nose with a slight bump, big white mustache, chiseled face and gold earring in the shape of a ''shackle,'' Mr. Borges, 68, resembles a gift-shop carving of a sea captain. No one knows the island better. In summer he is a lobsterman, and before going to the house he pulled four lobsters from his holding trap for dinner. We ate them as the setting sun spotlighted the outermost house on the island's east side.
 Around 9 p.m., Taylor and I put on our waders, grabbed our surf rods and a bucket of eels -- traditional bait for striped bass -- and walked the short distance in the dark to the rocky shore (because the island is only two miles long, the ocean is always just steps away). Away from the mainland's lights, the stars shone much brighter, and since the moon had not yet risen, the night was very dark. 
 I put an eel on Taylor's hook, acting as chummer. He stepped out into the surf and on his first cast hooked and landed a 42-inch striper, his personal largest. We released it, and then a half hour later, I caught one 39 inches. We kept that one to eat. So far, Cuttyhunk was living up to its reputation.
IN the morning, the breeze was up and we were out on the boat with Mr. Borges casting flies into the rocks. He first came to Cuttyhunk when he was 16 to work for Irwin Winslow Hall, a legendary striped bass charter captain known as Coot. ''I did everything for old Coot,'' Mr. Borges said, ''pumped gas, made up eel-skin rigs for trolling, and eventually ran my own charters.'' He later met and married Carolyn Cornell, a fifth-generation islander (her father was a ''chummer'' for members of the bass club), which made him about as close to a native as you could get without birthright. He worked for years at the Coast Guard station on Cuttyhunk and then became a lobsterman. Now, in the fall, he takes fly and light-tackle fishermen out on his 22-foot skiff to fish the shallow rocky waters for stripers.
 If you knew that striped bass love rocks (its old scientific name Roccus saxatilis, as well as its common name rockfish, allude to this), which they do, then you would begin to understand how Cuttyhunk's coast would be ideal habitat for this fish. Nestled between Buzzard's Bay and Vineyard Sound, the island and its waters are abundant with rocks of all sizes. Some are so giant you would hesitate to call them mere boulders, and though they are fairly visible under the dark clear water, they have ripped open many hulls. Shipments of all kinds have been left stranded on the shore, adding to the stores of residents, from ebony wood in the 1860's to marijuana in the 1960's (even the liner Queen Elizabeth II went aground on the nearby Vineyard ledge). The combination of strong winds, rocks, heavy surf and fog make the south shore of the Elizabeths ideal for shipwrecks, leading to its nickname, ''the Graveyard.''
 Perhaps the most famous fishing spot off the island today is the Sow and Pigs. Known by islanders simply as the Pigs, its many rocks reminded some past Cuttyhunker of a series of sows with their sucklings. 
 When the stands were still in place on the island, members of the club mostly fished from shore, with lobster tails for bait. But then boats were used, pulling lures along the entire south side of the Elizabeths, from Cuttyhunk all the way to Robinson's Hole between Pasque and Naushon Islands (where a great white shark was recently hanging out). Anglers trolled eel skins stretched over half-inch copper tubing with two hooks. The captain kept a bean pot with a cover on it filled with brine that could hold 10 rigs or more. They'd also troll swimming plugs (wooden lures carved to imitate baitfish) covered with eel skins. 
 It wasn't until a charter captain, Charlie Haig, introduced the bucktail jig (a lure with a lead head, tied with hair from the tail of a deer) in the 1950's that jigging with a wire line became a favorite fishing method among the islanders. The history is intact in Mr. Borges's head, and comes out in bits, but only if you ask. He never uses bait because his father never did, only popping plugs, jigs and flies (his father used to make plugs by hand and sell them under the name Cuttyhunk Popper). Why has Mr. Borges chosen to live on Cuttyhunk his whole adult life? Besides the fishing, he just liked that it was out of the way.
 ''You can't come by car,'' he said. ''It's boat or plane. It's not like Montauk or Point Judith that you can drive to. I don't know what this place would be like with all that. There's no motel. There's lodging but you can't just show up and find it. All you have is the bass club or the Avalon or the odd people who offer rooms occasionally.'' 
 The Elizabeths, eight in all (Nonamesset, Uncatena, Weepecket, Naushon, Pasque, Nashawena, Penikese and Cuttyhunk) are barren islands that resemble Iceland or the Scottish Hebrides. All but Cuttyhunk and Penikese are owned by the Forbes family (the Democratic presidential nominee, John Forbes Kerry, whose mother was a Forbes, spent some childhood summers on Naushon).
 Nashawena Island, next to Cuttyhunk, has a herd of more than 200 Scottish highland cows, their thick long coats useful when there's nothing else to shield them from a northeast blow. Cuttyhunk is barren, too, its trees felled long ago by Bartholomew Gosnold, who first settled the island in 1602 and built the first English habitation on the coast of New England (there is speculation that Shakespeare's New World in his play ''The Tempest'' was based on Gosnold's journals from his expedition to Cuttyhunk, not a 1609 shipwreck in Bermuda). He returned to England soon after with a cargo of cedar and sassafras. The trees never seemed to have recovered on any of the islands.
 There's a great salt pond on the west side of Cuttyhunk where oysters are farmed. Cuttyhunk oysters are a prized item on the list at the Oyster Bar at Grand Central.
 For many years, Cuttyhunk was a place for wealthy men to escape their harried 19th century lives. And Cuttyhunk has remained an unchanging eddy in the wake of civilization.
 Over just two chilly days, it seemed the colors of the leaves had changed, the bayberries were mature, the poison ivy and choke cherry and small scrub birch were turning yellow and orange. The setting sun left a rosy cast on Gay Head on Martha's Vineyard, clearly visible across the sound. Forecast of the first frost was broadcast the night before. Soon the bass would be all south of here and the few Cuttyhunkers left would be hunkered down for the winter, watching ice form on their very protected harbor.

IF YOU GO
Plenty of Fish, but Little Else
 NOW through April 30, the Alert II ferry from New Bedford to Cuttyhunk makes only one round trip a week, on Fridays (508-992-1432; one-way adult fare is $14).
 Alternatively, you can get to the island by water taxi (the Seahorse, 508-789-3250; www.cuttyhunkwatertaxi.com; the price per person varies depending on the number in the party).
 There are several places to stay on the island during the fishing season. The dark-paneled interior of the Avalon House (508-997-8388) resembles a luxury ship's cabin. Its 10 rooms are about $100 a night; it is open through the end of October and reopens in June. Nearby is the Cuttyhunk Fishing Club Family Bed and Breakfast (508-992-5585), which has already closed for the winter. It reopens in mid-May. Its modest but comfortable rooms start at $135 a night. 
 Among the many charter captains you can meet at the Fish Dock, Bruce Borges is a light-tackle guide who also offers lodging in his barn, which sleeps three. (508-999-1263, summer; 239-283-9625,winter). A day with him and his boat is $450. A night in his barn is $175 for two to three people.
 Duane Lynch of Sea Hawk Charters, (508-997-6387; www.fishcuttyhunk.com) is a charter captain for striped bass and can shuttle people from Padanaram on the Massachusetts coast, $80 each way. A half day (single tide) of fishing is $300.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 22 about striped bass fishing at Cuttyhunk Island in Massachusetts misspelled the surname of an early early fishing enthusiast there and misstated his relationship with the Standard Oil Company. He was John D. Archbold, not Archibold; he was the company's second president, not an heir to the Standard Oil fortune. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FISHING HEAVEN -- Bruce Borges, top left, boating off Cuttyhunk Island, the last of the Elizabeth Islands between the Massachusetts mainland and Martha's Vineyard. A century ago, wealthy anglers including Theodore Roosevelt would stay at the Cuttyhunk Island Striped Bass Club, left, which is now an inn. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. F2)
 THE BIG ONE -- Cuttyhunk Island, in Massachusetts, is one of the best places to catch striped bass. Above, an angler with a 48-pounder caught off the rocky shore. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. F1)Map of Massachusetts highlighting Cuttyhunk Island. (pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FERRIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); CHILDREN (71%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); HOME SCHOOLING (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport; Striped Bass; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: James Prosek

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Cuttyhunk Island (Mass); Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



494 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: INSURGENCY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Falluja Sheiks Demand End To Airstrikes to Save Talks

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; An Iraqi reporter for The New York Times contributed reporting from Falluja for this article.

DATELINE: CAMP FALLUJA, Iraq, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Tribal sheiks and clerics in the insurgent stronghold of Falluja met Thursday to discuss reopening negotiations with the interim Iraqi government to forestall an expected American invasion.
 The leaders released a statement demanding that the interim government led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi arrange a halt to the almost daily American airstrikes in the city and to help families who have fled Falluja return to their homes. If the government met those conditions, the leaders said they would continue talks.
 But around 4 p.m., witnesses said explosions were heard in the southern districts of Falluja as aircraft flew overhead. The attack lasted about an hour. No casualties were reported immediately. 
 Violence also flared in Baghdad, 35 miles to the east, as gunmen opened fire on a bus carrying female employees of Iraqi Airways to the airport, killing at least one person and injuring 14 others, a hospital official and an airline employee said.
 The attack took place in the morning on the highway to the Baghdad airport, one of the most dangerous stretches of road in Iraq. The sound of a nearby explosion caused the driver of the bus, which was carrying two dozen women, to stop. Men wearing scarves over their faces then pulled up in a Toyota sedan and opened fire.
 After being grounded for 14 years because of economic penalties and war, Iraqi Airways resumed commercial service last month, flying to Damascus, Syria, and Amman, Jordan, with a single Boeing 737-200. Executives have said they intend to expand the fleet and add routes to Dubai and Tehran, Iran. Despite the morning attack, the airline did not cancel flights.
 The American military said that the commander of the 343rd Quartermaster Company, some of whose members refused orders to transport fuel through a dangerous area last week, had been relieved of duty. A statement said she had asked for the change, but Pentagon officials described it as a disciplinary action. The military declined to name the commander, citing privacy.
 The sheiks and clerics met in Falluja just three days after the lead negotiator for the city, Khalid al-Jumali, said his team had broken off talks with the Iraqi government and the American military, in part because of the continuing American airstrikes. Dr. Allawi's recent demand that city leaders turn over the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had also chilled the talks, he said, maintaining that Mr. Zarqawi was not in the city.
 ''It's a common saying that if you want your orders to be followed, you must order something that people are capable of,'' Abdullah al-Janabi, the leader of the mujahedeen council in Falluja, said in an interview broadcast by Al Jazeera, the Arab satellite network.
 Marines aboard a transport helicopter that landed Thursday morning here at Camp Falluja, the main American base in the area, said they were ready to take the fight to the mujahedeen. The marines withdrew from the city last May after turning over control to an Iraqi militia that later dissolved. Since then, militants have built up defenses and allowed groups like One God and Jihad, led by Mr. Zarqawi, to thrive.
 Dr. Allawi, who was holding talks with city leaders in the northern city of Mosul, said the government was still committed to pacifying Falluja through political means.
 ''We are expending all political efforts so that the brothers and the honorable residents of Falluja stick to the decisions of the government,'' he said, according to a pool report. ''When political patience runs out, that will be another matter.''
 ''The important thing is that they stick to the sovereignty of the law, disband illegal armed organizations and hand over heavy and medium weapons,'' Dr. Allawi said. ''We are determined that this happens across the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, inspecting construction of the Grand Mosque in Mosul in northern Iraq during a trip to the city for talks with local leaders, said he hoped to resolve the impasse in Falluja peacefully. (Pool Photo by Jewel Samad) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); WOMEN (74%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); CITIES (72%); HELICOPTERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (62%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Terrorism

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: Edward Wong; Iyad (Prime Min) Allawi; Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); AMMAN, JORDAN (69%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JORDAN (92%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN (74%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



495 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 878 words

PERSON: Gabriel Torres-Rivera

HEADLINE: For Aging Rebel, Path Leads to the Polling Booth

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
GABRIEL TORRES-RIVERA looks like an aging revolutionary in a biker's body. His beefy arms are covered with tattoos. And his past? Well, it's certainly no Hallmark card. He was a member of the Young Lords, a militant civil rights group in the 1960's. There was a murder indictment that was dismissed and a conviction for bank robbery when he was involved with the Black Liberation Army in the 70's. It led to eight years in prison. 
 On this sunny morning, Mr. Torres, now 57 and a sweet-faced grandfather with high blood pressure, is steeped in an enterprise at the heart of a democracy, empowering people to vote. He is not looking happy, though, as he holds a long sheet from the New York City Board of Elections, listing polling sites in the Bronx. It has a caveat. ''Subject to change,'' the sheet says in big, bold letters. 
 ''It's ridiculous,'' Mr. Torres says during an interview at the Community Service Society, a nonprofit organization on East 22nd Street that serves the poor. Mr. Torres, who directs the group's voter registration campaign, is worried that disadvantaged people will just go home if their polling site is suddenly changed.
 ''I'm not only frustrated,'' he says, covering his broad face in his hands. ''It's just the confusion.''
 In an election year in which voter registration has surged, Mr. Torres is getting out the vote in some of the city's poorest neighborhoods. He is found in his cramped office, feeling achy, but he won't call it a day. He says his workload is busier than ever, even though the Oct. 8 deadline has passed to register in New York for the Nov. 2 election. He is preparing to mail more than 3,000 letters to remind potential voters of Election Day, setting up a phone bank and finding recruits to monitor the polls.
 ''This is my heaviest period,'' he says from behind a desk that is a sea of scribbled notes and Post-its.
 Mr. Torres leads a voter registration drive aimed at the city's most marginalized groups: ex-felons, immigrants and low-income people. He can relate to them all. Born in Puerto Rico, he was raised by a maintenance worker and a homemaker in some of the city's meanest housing projects.
 He is a Democrat, but he says the voter drive is strictly nonpartisan, and has to be, or his group's funding would be jeopardized. Not taking sides, he says, is the easy part.
 ''People, I've found out, have clear-cut views about what party they want to register in,'' he says. ''It's ridiculous to think people are so politically ignorant.''
 The toughest part, he explains, is persuading people to overcome their reluctance to be involved in the political process. 
 ''People say, 'I don't believe in that,' or 'Look at what happened in 2000,''' Mr. Torres says. ''I tell them, 'If you don't believe in voting for yourself, do you have younger brothers or sisters?''' 
 Mr. Torres did not vote until he was 36. Before that, he was in prison, then barred from voting in New York because he was on parole. When he did cast his ballot, it was for Jesse Jackson for president.
 ''It felt great,'' he says, beaming. ''It meant something to me to say 'I support you.'''
 He would like parolees and even inmates, like those in Vermont and Maine, to have voting rights in New York. ''It's a way to reintegrate them into society,'' he says. ''You shouldn't lose your voice.''
 Mr. Torres is warm and gregarious. Behind him on a wall are family photographs. He lives in the Castle Hill section of the Bronx with his wife, his third, Ksisay, who is 33 and a special assistant at W magazine. They have two young children. 
 HIS life is a far cry from his angry 20's when he quit the Young Lords because he thought they were too nice. After he joined the Black Liberation Army, he was convicted of bank robbery and indicted along with his younger brother, Francisco, and three other men for the killing of two police officers outside a Harlem housing development in 1971. The first trial ended in a deadlocked jury and a mistrial. In a retrial, the judge dismissed the murder indictment against Mr. Torres and his brother, saying the prosecution's evidence against the two men was insufficient to send to the jury. The three other men were convicted. 
 ''I'm not that person anymore,'' he says quietly. ''I feel like I was a product of those times.''
 It is Mr. Torres who brings up the murder case with an interviewer. He says he wants to be upfront. In a gesture that seems a bit insecure during a long conversation, he frequently pulls out documents to confirm something he has said or done in the past.
 After his release from prison in 1979, Mr. Torres studied education at City College and earned a law degree from the City University in 1989. He says he flunked the bar exam and never tried again. He worked as a drug rehabilitation counselor, a nightclub bouncer and a truck driver for United Way. He was collecting unemployment benefits when a friend from his Young Lords days brought him to the Community Service Society in 2000 as his associate.
 So life takes peculiar trajectories, doesn't it? Mr. Torres nods. His big vexation now is that he cannot become a notary public because of his felony conviction. He pulls out a paycheck stub, pointing to what he pays in taxes. He wants to know whatever happened to second chances.


GRAPHIC: Photo: GABRIEL TORRES-RIVERA (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANK ROBBERY (76%); FELONIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); ELECTION MONITORING (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Registration of Voters; Gangs; Bank Robberies

ORGANIZATION: Young Lords; Black Liberation Army; Community Service Society of New York

Lynda Richardson; Gabriel Torres-Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



496 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Jets Stadium Backers Issue Report Citing Gains

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Supporters of the proposed $1.4 billion Jets stadium project on the West Side issued a study yesterday asserting that the stadium -- which would also serve as an exhibition hall and a locus of a possible 2012 Olympics -- would encourage new housing, shops and office buildings in the area.
 The study, paid for by the city's contractors, builders and construction unions, notes that stadiums in many cities have been economic failures but predicts that the Jets football stadium would be as successful as Petco Park in San Diego, Jacobs Field in Cleveland and Heinz Field in Pittsburgh.
 The stadium ''will create economic gain for this city because it's the right plan to capture real increments of growth in this generation,'' said John H. Alschuler Jr., the author of the four-month study and president of Hamilton, Rabinovitz & Alschuler, a public policy and management consulting firm. ''This plan meets the standards of plans that have been successful around the country. It's part of a comprehensive, mixed-use plan. There are adjacent development sites. It's got transit links, and there are parks and other amenities.'' 
 The Building Trades Employers' Association, the Building and Construction Trades Council, and the Building Congress, which sponsored the study, have been among the most visible and vociferous supporters of the plans by the Jets and the city.
 The plans call for a 75,000-seat stadium with a retractable roof, built on a platform over the railyards bounded by 11th and 12th Avenues and extending from 30th to 34th Street. It would double as an exhibition hall, working in concert with the nearby Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. The Jets have said they would invest $800 million, while the state and city would contribute $300 million each.
 The Bloomberg administration says the stadium is a vital element of a plan that will spur new office towers and residential buildings. It plans to rezone the area for large-scale development, building new parks and streets, expanding the convention center and extending the No. 7 subway line beyond Times Square to 34th Street and 11th Avenue.
 But Community Board 4, which encompasses the West Side of Manhattan, says along with some Broadway theater owners, civic groups and others that the stadium is more likely to clog the streets and subways on game days and repel development on the surrounding streets.
 Most economists and urban planners contend that stadiums enrich teams but have relatively little economic effect on their cities beyond a small number of seasonal, low-wage jobs and some tax revenues based on ticket sales and concessions.
 Mr. Alschuler does not disagree. Usually a stadium or arena is surrounded by parking lots and separated from the rest of a city with few opportunities for additional development, he said, but he added that some stadiums are part of broader development plans that stimulate private investment.
 ''The myth is that no stadium stimulates economic development,'' he said. ''The fact is that while many do not, some that are part of a comprehensive plan clearly do and have achieved great success in improving the urban environment.''
 Mark S. Rosentraub, dean of the College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University and author of ''Major League Losers: The Real Cost of Sports and Who's Paying for It,'' said any analysis of the Jets stadium must go further.
 ''If you want to build just a stadium, it's a waste of time,'' said Mr. Rosentraub, an economist. ''If you want to create a development plan anchored around sports, it can be exciting and successful. The question in New York is, can you justify what might be the largest public investment ever committed to a single stadium? What else could be done with the money?''
 Some planners and local residents have suggested that residential and commercial development on the West Side could be revitalized simply by rezoning and investing in public transportation. 
 That is true, but ''the stadium project will speed up by generations a process of development that would occur over the fullness of time anyway,'' Mr. Alschuler said. ''During that time, however, we'd lose jobs and tax revenue to other jurisdictions at great cost to the city.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (96%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); ZONING (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); TICKET SALES (64%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (57%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Research

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%) New York Jets; Hamilton, Rabinovitz & Alschuler

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; John H Jr Alschuler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



497 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Move Lower, But EBay Lifts the Nasdaq

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed in a volatile session yesterday, with blue chips weighed down by uncertainty over oil prices and a new investigation of the insurance industry. Technology stocks received a lift from strong earnings by eBay.
 Blue-chip stocks were pressured by the American International Group, which missed estimates on its latest earnings report and announced that it was the subject of a grand jury investigation. And while pharmaceutical stocks were up on positive earnings news, I.B.M. and Caterpillar dropped. 
 Worried investors saw a little relief from oil prices, which remained below $55 a barrel. A barrel of light crude closed at $54.47, up 6 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 ''Considering where oil is and the mixed earnings we've had, I think the market's holding in there valiantly,'' said Joseph Battipaglia, chief investment officer at Ryan Beck & Company. ''Tech stocks are providing a little leadership, but there's no follow-through. We'll need a bigger catalyst to break out of this trading range we're in.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 21.17 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,865.76. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.83 points, or 0.3 percent, at 1,106.49, and the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index rose 20.65 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,953.62.
 The markets were cheered somewhat by the Labor Department's latest report on first-time jobless claims, which fell 25,000, to 329,000, last week, the lowest level since early September.
 But investors were disappointed with the latest reading of the Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators, which fell for a fourth consecutive month in September. The index, which is intended to measure future economic potential, fell 0.1 percent for the month -- a sign that the economy continues to lose momentum.
 The drug company Schering-Plough swung to a profit in the third quarter, posting earnings of a penny a share. Analysts had expected a loss of a penny a share. Schering-Plough gained 26 cents, to $16.98. Eli Lilly beat estimates by a penny a share, but lowered its forecast and announced additional job cuts. Lilly was down $2.46, to $52.64.
 Merck, a Dow component, slipped 14 cents, to $31.26, after it missed Wall Street forecasts because of charges related to the withdrawal of its arthritis drug Vioxx from the market.
 The Dow was also held back by A.I.G.'s announcement that it is the target of a federal grand jury investigation in Indiana over its corporate insurance products. The company also missed its third-quarter earnings expectations by a penny a share. A.I.G. slid $1.15, to $56.45.
 And despite positive earnings this week, both I.B.M. and Caterpillar fell sharply. I.B.M. lost 72 cents, to $88.10, while Caterpillar tumbled $3.35, to $77.03, on a lower outlook for future earnings.
 Technology stocks were lifted by upbeat earnings from the online auctioneer eBay, announced after the session Wednesday. The company beat Wall Street expectations by a penny a share as both revenue and profit soared from a year ago. EBay surged $8.23, to $99.59.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.67 billion shares, compared with 1.69 billion on Wednesday.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, to a price of 1021/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4 percent from 3.98 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly from June-Oct. 2004.30-year: 5.19%15-year: 4.57%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: EBAY INC (93%); MERCK & CO INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (93%); MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



498 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Inside Art; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 909 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Some Low-Flying Art That's Full of Meaning
 For the first time in more than a decade, Jenny Holzer's sayings about life and the state of the world will soon be visible in unexpected places around New York. 
 From Tuesday though Nov. 1, seven of her ''Truisms'' will be flying around Long Island, along the Brooklyn waterfront and up the Hudson River to the George Washington Bridge -- emblazoned on banners attached to airplanes. In addition to her own sayings, Ms. Holzer has chosen one by Abraham Lincoln -- ''Whatever you are, be a good one'' -- to be splashed across the New York skyline. And the artist's scrolling quotations of poetry will be projected onto several city landmarks, including the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. 
 ''These projections have been seen all over the world, but she's never had the opportunity to show them in the United States,'' said Anne Pasternak, director of Creative Time, the nonprofit organization that is sponsoring the show. 
 Ms. Holzer said she felt that the election season was an ideal time to show her work in New York, although none of her sayings will be a campaign endorsement. ''Right before the election I thought it was time to look to the skies,'' she said. ''So I dusted off some truisms that have to do with the state of the world and what is on people's minds.'' 
 Ms. Holzer said the projections would include works by contemporary poets like the Nobel laureate Wislawa Szymborska, Yehuda Amichai and Henri Cole. (Datesand locations are listed at www.creativetime.org/programs.) 
 How does she expect New Yorkers to react? ''In different ways, from utter indifference to pleasure,'' she said. ''I'm hoping these will not be seen so much as art, but as mysterious, anonymous, and that they will be read for their content.''

Cranach Heads for Texas
 The Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth is known for its financial muscle, scholarship and active acquisitions program. Now it has scooped up an early painting by the Northern Renaissance artist Lucas Cranach the Elder. 
 ''The Judgment of Paris,'' a mythological landscape with nude goddesses, dating from 1512-14, is well known to scholars. From 1968 to 1996, the painting was on loan to the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne, Germany. From there it went to Sotheby's in London, which sold it for $3.2 million to an unidentified European collector. That collector sold it to the Kimbell. Neither Adam Williams, a Manhattan dealer who acted on behalf of the owner, nor Timothy Potts, the Kimbell's director, would say how much the museum paid for it. 
 ''It was owned by one family for over 100 years,'' Mr. Williams said, ''so it is in exceptional condition.''Mr. Potts said the Kimbell has been relatively weak in Northern European art. Cranach painted about 12 versions of the subject; this painting is the first. 

Sharing Art and Costs
 For several years, museums in the United States and abroad have been joining forces to buy contemporary art. These joint acquisitions make economic sense: not only are top-quality pieces hard to come by, they are also often prohibitively expensive given the way prices for contemporary art have soared. What's more, few museums have the space to put these pieces continuously on view. 
 The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art has been a pioneer in this collegial form of sharing. Four years ago, it bought a Matthew Barney video together with the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. In 2002, it purchased a self-portrait by Felix Gonzalez-Torres with the Art Institute of Chicago. 
 This week the San Francisco museum announced that it had joined with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington to acquire ''Suspension of Disbelief (for Marine),'' one of the first examples of sculptural video created by the media artist Gary Hill, in 1991-92. 
 A video installation made up of 30 monitors set into an aluminum I-beam, the work was created in an edition of two, plus an artist's proof. The two are in museums in Europe, but San Francisco and the Hirshhorn were able to buy the proof. 
 Neither institution would say what was paid for the work; experts estimate that it is valued at $300,000. 
 Neal Benezra, director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, said that when he heard that ''Suspension of Disbelief (for Marine)'' was available, he approached Mr. Hill and his dealer, Donald Young. He found out that the Hirshhorn was interested in the same piece. 
 Kerry Brougher, the Hirshhorn's chief curator, said his museum had little in the way of video art and had made it a priority to add some good examples to its collection. ''This is a major piece by a major artist,'' Mr. Brougher said. Had the museum not teamed up to buy the piece, ''it might not have been possible,'' he added. 
 Mr. Benezra said while the museums had not worked out the details on the work's future, San Francisco planned to show it first, as part of an exhibition of work by Mr. Hill from Bay Area collections running from March 25 through May 30. 

The Modern at a Discount
 The Museum of Modern Art is offering a few hours of relief from the $20 admission fee -- the most expensive of any museum in the country -- that it plans to charge once it reopens next month after its $858 million expansion and renovation.
 This week it announced that Target, the discount-store chain, would sponsor Target Free Friday Nights. Beginning Nov. 26, the first Friday it will be open, admission will be free every Friday from 4 to 8 p.m. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucas Cranach the Elder's first ''Judgment of Paris'' (1512-14). (Photo by Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (69%); ART DEALERS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%) Art; Airlines and Airplanes; Cathedral Church of St John the Divine (NYC); Art

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%) Kimbell Art Museum (Fort Worth, Tex)

PERSON: Carol Vogel; Jenny Holzer; Lucas (1472-1553) Cranach

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (85%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (51%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



499 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: IMATION TO CUT 250 JOBS, MOSTLY IN MINNESOTA

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Imation Corporation, a manufacturer of recording tape, CD's and DVD's, said that it planned to cut 250 jobs as part of a reorganization to improve earnings. An Imation spokesman, Bradley D. Allen, said that a significant number of the layoffs would be at the company's headquarters in Oakdale, Minn. The announcement came Wednesday when the company said fourth-quarter earnings fell short of analysts' expectations. The chief executive, Bruce A. Henderson, said the results fell short after some customers deferred purchases because of economic uncertainty.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Recording Equipment; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Compact Discs; Dvd (Digital Versatile Disk); Recordings (Video); Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: IMATION CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Imation Corp

TICKER: IMN (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



500 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Software Concern's Profit Rises

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The German business management software maker SAP reported a 15 percent increase in third-quarter profit, citing increased sales across the globe. SAP said it earned 291 million euros ($367 million) in the period, compared with a profit of 252 million euros in the period last year. Sales in the period, which ended Sept. 30, rose 8 percent, to 1.78 billion euros ($2.24 billion), and the company said it remained on track toward an expected full-year increase in software sales of about 10 percent. Software sales in Europe rose 24 percent from the third quarter of last year, a sign of the region's economic recovery. The Asia-Pacific region showed a 23 percent increase, while the United States gained 6 percent over what SAP said was a strong third quarter last year.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (73%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: SAP AG (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Sap Ag

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (96%); SAP (FRA) (96%); SAP (BIT) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (71%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



501 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Judge Rejects I.R.S. Case Against Black & Decker

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A federal judge has ruled against the Internal Revenue Service in its bid to force the Black & Decker Corporation to pay $140 million in additional taxes tied to a financial transaction that the agency says is questionable. 
 The I.R.S. can appeal the ruling, which also requires the agency to refund $57 million in taxes paid by Black & Decker. The company had sued for the return of the money, citing what it deemed to be the legitimate tax-reducing aspects of the disputed transaction. 
 The decision was made Wednesday by Judge William D. Quarles of the United States District Court for the northern district of Maryland; Black & Decker is based in Towson, Md. The ruling is a setback to the government in its war against questionable tax shelters, said Lee Sheppard, a tax authority in New York and frequent contributor to Tax Analysts, a trade publication.
 The decision contrasts with one handed down by a Connecticut federal judge in August favoring the government in its civil case against Long-Term Capital Management, a giant hedge fund that collapsed. That ruling upheld a $106 million tax bill against the fund. 
 A Black & Decker spokeswoman declined yesterday to comment on the decision, saying that she had not yet seen it.
 ''We are disappointed in the court's decision,'' the Justice Department said in a statement yesterday. ''We believe our position in this case is supported by the facts and the relevant law.''
 Mark W. Everson, the I.R.S. commissioner, said, ''We are reviewing this decision and working closely with the Justice Department to consider the next appropriate steps.''
 The case had been scheduled to go to trial on Nov. 1, a move that would have allowed the government to delve into the details of the transaction. Judge Quarles's ruling cancels the trial.
 The type of transaction used by Black & Decker involved creating an entity to house future claims for employee and retiree benefits, and was once used by the Enron Corporation, the collapsed energy giant, according to I.R.S. documents. 
 The disputed arrangement, known as a contingent liability, could be used to offset gains for current, future and past tax years. In 1998, Black & Decker used it to transfer $561 million in costs associated with future claims for benefits to a new special-purpose entity, Black & Decker Healthcare Management, according to court papers.
 Black & Decker performed the transfer because it had a large tax bill stemming from its sale that year of three of its business units, according to the papers.
 Black & Decker sold its stock in the special-purpose entity for $1 million. Then, in December 2001, the company claimed on its federal income tax return that all of the financial moves had created $561 million in capital losses -- an amount that it wanted to use, for previous and future years, to offset the taxable capital gains from the business-unit sales.
 The I.R.S. has argued that the entire transaction was a sham, with no real economic substance and no business purpose other than tax avoidance. Black & Decker argued that the transaction did have economic substance because it affected employees and their benefits. 
 The I.R.S. formally banned contingent liability transactions in February 2001, saying that they were not valid for deductions.
 In his six-page decision, Judge Quarles wrote that Black & Decker's contingent liability transaction ''cannot be disregarded as a sham'' and that it had ''real economic implications for every beneficiary of B.&D.'s employee benefits program, as well as for the parties to the transaction.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); JUDGES (93%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); APPEALS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); HEALTH CARE (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%) Taxation; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Tax Shelters

COMPANY: STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (95%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%) Internal Revenue Service; Black & Decker Corp

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: MARK W EVERSON (58%) William D (Judge) Quarles; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



502 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MICHEL, CLIFFORD L.

 BODY:
 MICHEL--Clifford L., retired partner with the New York City law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 at his home in Gladstone, N.J. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Michel, known to all as Mickey, began his career at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in 1964. From 1972 to 1976, he was the resident partner in the firm's office in Paris, France, where he specialized in corporate, securities and international law. He was also the president of the Wenonah Development Company, an investment holding company. Since 1997, he had served as managing partner of Railhead Ventures with World Headquarters in Bedminster, N.J. Beginning in the late 1970s, Mr. Michel held directorships on boards of a variety of both public and privately held companies. At various times, he was a director of the Sperry & Hutchinson Company, Cities Service Company, Fruehauf France S.A., Tempo Technology Corporation and Faber-Castell Corporation. In 1983, he became a director of The Alliance Fund and more than 30 other mutual funds managed by Alliance Capital Management. In 1987, he became a director of Placer Dome, the Canadian mining concern. He held both positions until his death. His work included a long tenure as a trustee of Morristown Memorial Hospital and Morristown Memorial Health Foundation in Morristown, N.J. He started as a trustee in 1980 and he became chairman in 1991. After the consolidation of Morristown Memorial, Overlook and Mountainside hospitals in 1996, he served as director of Atlantic Health Systems. 
From 2000 through 2002, he served as chairman of Atlantic Health and he continued as a trustee of the Foundation and the Morristown Memorial Advisory Board. For more than two decades he was a trustee of St. Mark's School in Southborough, MA, of which he was a graduate. From 1988 through 1994, he was chairman of the board of trustees. He was also chairman of the Lonely Hearts Club, a single woman's support group based in New York City. Clifford Lloyd Michel was born in New York City on August 9, 1939. He graduated from Princeton University with a B.A. in Economics and Public Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School in 1961 and earned a J.D. from Yale University in 1964. That same year he married Betsy Shirley. They were married for over forty years and lived on a farm in Gladstone, N.J. where they raised pigs, chickens, donkeys and cattle. They spent summers in Siasconset, MA. Mr. Michel was a co-founder of the European Challenge, a loose affiliation of American golfing enthusiasts for which he served as Honorable Secretary for many years. He was also a member of the United States Seniors Golf Assocation. Besides his wife, Mr. Michel is survived by three children: Fritz of Los Angeles, CA, Jake of Washington, D.C., and Katie of New York City, N.Y. and two grandaughters, Stella Sperry Michel and Sadie Michel Schlesinger. The family asks that in lieu of flowers memorial contributions be made to St. Mark's School, Southborough, MA 01772 or Morristown Memorial Health Foundation, 100 Madison Avenue, Morristown, N.J. 07960. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, N.J. on Friday, October 22 at 11AM. For more information, contact Bailey Funeral Home of Peapack, N.J. 908-234-0590 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); GOLF (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%); LUNG CANCER (57%); CANCER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAHILL GORDON & REINDEL LLP (95%); FRUEHAUF SAS (83%); SPERRY & HUTCHINSON CO INC (69%); FABER-CASTELL CORP (69%); CITIES SERVICE CO (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (83%); NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (69%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (69%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



503 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Profit Doubles

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Caterpillar more than doubled its third-quarter profit, riding an economic rebound that led to record sales of heavy equipment and engines, the company reported Thursday. 
 Caterpillar, based in Peoria, posted a net profit of $498 million, or $1.41 a share, up from $222 million, or 62 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago. Revenue was $7.65 billion, up 38 percent from $5.55 billion a year ago.
 Caterpillar's chief executive, James W. Owens, credited ''the strongest recovery we've ever seen across the broad spectrum of markets we serve.'' The company reported that profit on engine sales was up 96 percent, while machinery profit rose 78 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Caterpillar Inc

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: JAMES W OWENS (74%) James W Owens

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



504 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Iraqi Insurgency Seen In Different Light
Senior American officials are painting a new portrait of the insurgency that has continued to inflict casualties on American and Iraqi forces, presenting new estimates on the organization, numbers and resources of an evolving enemy. A1

Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon of Britain said 850 British troops in southern Iraq would replace American fighting units that are expected to mount an assault on Iraqi insurgents near Falluja. A8

The senior United Nations official in Iraq says his staff and the Iraqi government have assembled a list of nearly 14 million Iraqi voters, set up 550 voter registration sites around the country and hired 6,000 people to operate them for the elections scheduled to be held in three months. A1

A top Defense Department official misrepresented to Congress the view of American intelligence agencies about the relationship between Iraq and Al Qaeda, according to a report by a Senate Democrat. A10

A training session for the Iraqi judges and prosecutors slated to try Saddam Hussein ended with both the Iraqis and their Western advisers agreeing that the Iraqis are unprepared to tackle full-fledged trials any time soon. A11

A military court sentenced Staff Sgt. Ivan L. Frederick II, 38, to eight years in prison for abusing Iraqi prisoners. Two others have been convicted. A8

Times Employee Is Arrested
The Chinese authorities formally arrested a researcher in the Beijing bureau of The New York Times on charges of revealing state secrets to foreigners. A6

Airstrike Kills Hamas Leader
An Israeli airstrike in Gaza City killed a Hamas weapons maker who was responsible for some of the group's most powerful bombs and its rockets, Israel's military said. A4

NATIONAL A12-21

New Justice May Emerge After Presidential Election
With the nation preparing to elect a president who will almost certainly have an opportunity to name at least one Supreme Court justice, Democrats and Republicans remain fixed in their positions over who belongs on the bench. A1

Senator John Kerry hunted geese in Ohio, in a campaign stop that was part of a longtime effort to appeal, as a fellow sportsman, to rural, blue-collar voters. A18

President Bush campaigned in Pennsylvania, seeking support from Roman Catholic voters and mocking Mr. Kerry's health care plan as an ''overpriced albatross.'' A18

6 Close Races for Governor
Indiana, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, Washington and Utah have become battlegrounds in governors' races as voters wrestle with local issues like education, energy, wages and unemployment. A16

Woman Dies in Boston Melee
A 21-year-old woman died of injuries sustained after being shot in the eye by a police projectile intended to subdue an unruly crowd outside Fenway Park after the game. B8

WEEKEND E1-32;E33-44

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Doubt Arises on Flu Shots
Local and state health officials are complaining that their federal counterparts have given them almost no information to deal with the shortage of flu vaccines, and many doubt the assurances that adequate supplies will become available. A12

New Ways of Handling Autism
More families with autistic children are finding that techniques that have proved successful in the classroom can be tried at home to help the children learn and to improve quality of life for the rest of the family. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Largest Ferry Operator Cites Financial Trouble
The largest company providing ferry service in the metropolitan region has told transportation officials that it is in financial trouble and may be unable to continue providing service to its 38,000 daily commuters. A1

State Races Tout Reform
The battle for an open New York State Senate seat in the Bronx has the two main candidates sparring over who is better suited to overhaul the way things are done in Albany. B1

Billionaire Fights Cafe Plan
A celebrity hangout on the Upper East Side received a permit for an outdoor cafe despite the opposition of the financier Ronald O. Perelman and neighbors. The opponents, however, have won a delay. B1

Murder Conviction Overturned
Five New York State appellate judges citing new evidence unanimously overturned the conviction of David Wong, who has spent 17 years in prison for murder. B2

Long Island Judge Censured
The New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct censured a Long Island judge for ruling on various cases involving a woman with whom he was romantically involved. B5

ESCAPES F1-14

OBITUARIES B10

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-8

Cardinals Head to World Series
St. Louis beat the Houston Astros, 5-2, to win the National League Champsionship. They will face the Boston Red Sox tomorrow. D1

Gymnast to Keep Gold Medal
The Court of Arbitration for Sport dismissed the appeal by a South Korean gymnast, allowing the American Paul Hamm to keep his medal. D6

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Spitzer Eyes Music Industry
Four record companies were served subpoenas by Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general, as part of an investigation into the industry's practices for influencing which songs are heard on the radio, people involved in the investigation said. C1

More Trouble for A.I.G.
The American International Group disclosed that it was the target of a federal grand jury investigation in Indiana over its role in helping a Midwest cellphone distributor cover up millions in business losses. C1

Ultimatum Within Lazard
Lazard's chairman, Michel David-Weill, gave his consent to a proposed initial public offering, along with a demand that if Bruce Wasserstein, who runs Lazard and is leading the push for the offering, is unable to pull it off within nine months, he must resign. C1

Google's Profits Double
Google more than doubled its revenue and profit in its first quarter after its initial public offering. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Iran's nuclear threat; rethinking Texas' redistricting; treating mentally ill prisoners; curses.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E43
TV Listings E30-31
Public Lives B2
Weather C8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); HAMAS (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); PRISONS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); JUDGES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (66%); SHOOTINGS (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); DEATHS (62%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



505 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: GOVERNORS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: In Other Frays, 6 Closely Fought Contests for Governor

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 19 

 BODY:
The presidential election has deeply divided many Americans along partisan lines, but in the half dozen states with close races for governor, party labels do not really tell the story. 
 Indiana, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire and Washington have become battlegrounds in governors' races even though, in most cases, the outcome of the presidential race there is not in doubt. In these states, voters are wrestling with local issues like education, energy, wages and unemployment -- all of which echo only distantly the concerns about terrorism and war that dominate the presidential contest. 
 Local politics, in other words, have remained local. And nowhere is that more obvious than here in Utah, a deeply Republican state where Senator John Kerry will get 30 percent of the vote if he is lucky but where, for the first time in 20 years, a Democrat, Scott Matheson Jr., is considered a serious contender for the governor's chair. 
 Voters like Rebecca Christianson -- committed nationally, but still shopping locally -- are the reason. 
 Ms. Christianson, a C.P.A. and self-described conservative Republican who lives in the suburbs of Salt Lake City, said she would definitely vote for President Bush but had not decided in the governor's race between Mr. Matheson and the Republican candidate, Jon Huntsman Jr. She likes them both.
 ''They're both very well regarded,'' Ms. Christianson said as she walked to a lunchtime debate between the two men in downtown Salt Lake sponsored by the Salt Lake Rotary Club. ''It'll probably be a gut reaction at the last minute.''
 Political analysts say that lingering economic troubles in many states, combined with a presidential election centered on foreign policy and global security, have made voting for governor and president very different choices this year.
 ''Usually in a presidential year there are some inevitable common threads; this year they're in parallel universes,'' said Jennifer Duffy, who tracks Senate and governors' races at the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter in Washington. 
 The fact that cliffhangers are occurring in governors' races in several states that are not really in play in the presidential election underscores that disconnection. Only 11 states are electing governors this year, but Cook considers more than half of those -- Indiana, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, Utah and Washington -- to be tossups. The Center for Politics at the University of Virginia, which also tracks local races, lists Missouri, New Hampshire, Utah and Washington as too close to call. 
 Most are not major battlegrounds in the presidential race. Indiana, Missouri, Montana and Utah are generally considered safely in Mr. Bush's camp, while Washington rests securely in Mr. Kerry's column. The race in New Hampshire remains tight, though many political observers say it is leaning toward Mr. Kerry. 
 What is driving these governors' races, local politicians and political analysts say, are questions close to home -- jobs, wages and education. Beginning in 2001 and continuing through last year, voters across the nation began giving governors fits as local economies sputtered.
 In the 42 governor's elections held since 2001, including the California governor's recall vote last year, 25 states turned over party control of the governor's office, the Cook Report said. Twelve went from Republican to Democrat, and 11 went from Democrat to Republican. Both of the third-party governors in 2001 are gone; one seat went to the Republicans, the other to the Democrats. 
 And those incumbent troubles remain a big theme again this year. In Indiana, the incumbent Democrat, Joseph E. Kernan, who took over last year after the death of Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon, is running a close race against the Republican candidate, Mitch Daniels, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Bush. Democrats have controlled the Indiana governor's office since 1989.
 In Montana, Gov. Judy Martz, a Republican whose popularity plummeted through a difficult four-year term, chose not to seek re-election, leaving the field open to a tight race between the Democrat, Brian Schweitzer, a farmer who has campaigned hard on the weak performance of the state's economy, and the Republican candidate, Secretary of State Bob Brown. 
 In Missouri, Claire C. McCaskill, a Democrat who is the state auditor and a former prosecutor, beat the incumbent governor, Bob Holden, in the primary and has run neck and neck with her Republican opponent, Secretary of State Matt Blunt.
 In New Hampshire, which elects a governor every two years, the Democratic challenger, John Lynch, has capitalized on low approval numbers for the incumbent, Craig Benson.
 ''They're making this race about personal destruction of a governor,'' said the New Hampshire Republican Party chairwoman, Jayne Millerick.
 In Washington, Gov. Gary Locke, a Democrat, chose not to run for a third term, leaving the field open to a battle between Attorney General Christine O. Gregoire, a Democrat, and former State Senator Dino Rossi, a Republican, over who is best qualified to revive the state's economy. Washington has not had a Republican governor since 1985, and has lost about one quarter of its manufacturing jobs since the late 1990's.
 Here in Utah, analysts and pollsters say that party politics have been at least partly overtaken by the power of family names. 
 Mr. Matheson, a Rhodes scholar, former United States attorney and currently dean of the University of Utah Law School, is the son of Utah's most recent Democrat governor, Scott M. Matheson, who served from 1977 to 1985. Mr. Huntsman is a former ambassador to Singapore who speaks Mandarin Chinese and is one of the wealthiest men in Utah, as heir to the Huntsman chemical fortune.
 ''These are two magic names in Utah,'' said Dr. Ronald J. Hrebenar, the interim director of the Hinckley Institute of Politics at the University of Utah. ''It's the richest family in the state against the richest family political tradition in the state.'' 
 How to stimulate the economy and generate jobs are the topics both men continually address.
 At their recent Rotary Club debate here, Mr. Huntsman said that if he was elected, the sign on his door would not say ''Governor,'' but rather ''Economic Development Tsar.'' Mr. Matheson said the priority for the next governor should be education, because improving the state's schools, he said, is the long-term strategy that will keep companies moving here and create the work force those companies need.
 Women -- both as candidates and as voters -- are also playing a prominent role in the governors' races. Of the six tightest elections races, two involve women -- Ms. Gregoire in Washington and Ms. McCaskill in Missouri.
 Here in Utah, Mr. Matheson is expected to be helped by the popularity of his brother, Jim, a Democratic congressman who is running for re-election. Mr. Huntsman has the power of the Utah Republican Party, along with the popularity of President Bush, forces that analysts say probably give him an edge.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tossups for Governorships''Eleven states have races for governor this fall, with more than half of them considered tossups.Seats currently held by:Democrats (6 seats): WASH., MO., IND., W. VA., DEL., and N.C.Republicans (5 seats): MONT., N.D., UTAH, VT. and N.H.States where the race is considered a tossup are in bold outline.WASH.MONT.UTAHMO.IND.N.H.Held by DemocratsTOSSUPSInd.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Gov. Joseph E. KernanREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Mitch Daniels, former budget director for President BushMo.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Claire C. McCaskill, state auditorREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Matt Blunt, secretary of stateWash.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Christine O. Gregoire, attorney generalREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Dino Rossi, former state senatorLEANING DEMOCRATICDel.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Gov. Ruth Ann MinnerREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Bill Lee, retired judgeN.C.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Gov. Michael F. EasleyREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Patrick Ballantine, state senatorW. Va.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Joe Manchin, secretary of stateREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Monty Warner, real estate developerHeld by RepublicansTOSSUPSMont.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Brian Schweitzer, farmerREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Bob Brown, secretary of stateN.H.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: John Lynch, businessmanREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Gov. Craig BensonUtahDEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Scott Matheson, dean of University of Utah Law SchoolREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Jon Huntsman Jr., former diplomatLEANING REPUBLICANN.D.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Joe Satrom, former state tourism directorREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Gov. John HoevenVt.DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Peter Clavelle, mayor of BurlingtonREPUBLICAN CANDIDATE: Gov. Jim Douglas(Sources by Cook Political Report
 Reuters)Map of United States highlighting above mentioned states. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TERRORISM (55%) Labor; Education and Schools; Unemployment; Election Issues; Governors (US); States (US)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); MATT BLUNT (58%); JIM DOUGLAS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN LYNCH (58%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (58%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (58%) Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



506 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Is It Time to Stem Asia Deficits With a Weak Dollar?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
WHAT has gone wrong in the American economy in the last six months? That is not something being discussed on the campaign trail, but the answers provide an indication of the major policy problems the victor will have to address next year.
 There is likely to be strong American pressure on much of Asia, not just China, to allow a major depreciation of the dollar. The details may be different depending on who wins the election, but the pressure will be there.
 Such a ''weak dollar'' policy would raise the cost of imported goods, and thus hurt consumers. But the alternative is to see more and more American economic stimulus drain overseas as the trade deficit grows ever greater, making the eventual resolution that much more painful. 
 The main reason the recent American slowdown has gone undiscussed is that neither candidate wants to bring up the subject. To President Bush, such a question concedes that the recovery that seemed so impressive early this year has faded. For Senator John Kerry, such a question admits there was a recovery.
 But the fact is that starting in May, the economic data began to provide unhappy surprises. American growth now is adequate, but it does not match what the administration or most private forecasters expected.
 One explanation is that the prognosticators grew too enthusiastic. The surge in growth in the second and third quarters last year reflected a tax cut that sent checks to families with children, but excluded high-income families. It should have been no surprise that checks sent to parents in the summer would lead to a good back-to-school shopping season. Nor should it have been a surprise that there would be some retrenchment this year, when no similar checks arrived.
 What else? High oil prices have had a dampening effect, but not nearly to the extent that many would have expected. Gasoline still takes up a smaller part of paychecks than before the first oil shock, in 1973. You'll know gas prices are hurting when you see headlines about plunging sales of sport utility vehicles.
 But the real issue is that American demand is going overseas. ''The problem is that imports from Asia are soaring, and exports are growing modestly,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist of ITG/Hoenig.
 And that is where the campaign comes in. ''A centerpiece of the Kerry critique of Bush is the exporting of jobs to the rest of the world, and yet an opinion about the dollar is not at all front and center,'' Mr. Barbera said.
 In the Bush administration, John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, is always willing to declare, ''We support a strong dollar,'' as he did this week. But he also says he wants exchange rates to be determined by the market.
 That does not happen in Asia. Instead, central banks buy Treasury securities by the bucketful to support the dollar. At the end of August, the combined holdings of Japan, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore were $1.1 trillion, up 22 percent from the end of 2003. Since President Bush took office, they have added to their Treasury holdings at a pace of nearly half a billion dollars a day. Instead, the dollar's fall has mostly been against the euro. That is one reason Europe's export-led recovery has begun to weaken, with industrial production turning lower and trade surpluses narrowing.
 If Mr. Bush gains a second term, he need only recall what his role model, Ronald Reagan, did. After cutting taxes in the first term and seeing the trade deficit rise to previously unimaginable levels, he engineered the Plaza accord in the first year of his second term. The dollar fell and the trade deficit gradually narrowed. It is time to consider such a policy again. And whoever is elected may want to get that process started sooner rather than later.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly change from previous year in U.S. trade (IMPORTS, EXPORTS) with major Asian countries, six-month moving average since 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); IMPORT PRICES (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Currency; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Floyd Norris; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



507 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Quneitra Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: In a Long-Ruined City, Talk of Lifting the Clouds of War

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: QUNEITRA, Syria 

 BODY:
For the last 30 years, the Syrians have used this flattened provincial capital as an open-air monument to Israeli perfidy, hauling virtually every visiting foreign dignitary through the ruins to hear their traditional lament about how the Zionists leveled the city when they withdrew under the 1974 cease-fire terms. 
 But now there is talk of rebuilding Quneitra, of transforming it into a tangible symbol of Syria's conviction that its claim to the occupied Golan Heights will never be settled through war. 
 Former residents have been carting plastic shopping bags crammed with property deeds and even circa-1967 electricity bills to an office in Damascus to prove they used to live here. The registration period ends Oct. 31. 
 Once armed with statistics about the number of former residents and their descendants expecting to claim property, the Syrian government will develop a reconstruction plan and probably seek foreign aid for the daunting project of creating a city for tens of thousands of people, several Syrian officials and Quneitra natives said. 
 ''In general, it is a good faith measure, especially since we are rebuilding a city while some of our territory remains under occupation,'' said Medhat al-Saleh, a former member of the Syrian Parliament who spent 12 years in Israeli prisons for fighting its control over the Golan. ''It is a way of showing that we are being honest when we say that peace is our strategic option, but at the same time we will not abandon one inch of the Golan.'' 
 Analysts in Syria view this as a potentially significant shift in the last major front of the Arab-Israel dispute. 
 They consider it a means for the young president, Bashar al-Assad, to signal that he is not slavishly following the intransigence of his late father, without abandoning the near-sacred policy that all of the Golan, conquered by Israel in the 1967 war, must revert to Syria. 
 ''For 30 years it has been the status quo, nothing happened,'' a senior United Nations official said, talking about the sensitive issue of Quneitra. ''It was a way of keeping the present problem alive, a way of educating each new generation about what the Israelis had done.'' 
 President Assad has taken several steps to signal Syria's desire to resume peace talks. The Israeli government has dismissed the gestures, saying that he is simply responding to pressure from the United States, which has imposed economic sanctions and accused Syria of allowing Islamic militants to flow into Iraq. ''The only way the Syrians would be amenable to any sort of arrangement with Israel is because they are under growing international pressure,'' Zalman Shoval, an adviser to the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, said from Jerusalem.
 Others have noted that, given the domestic tension over the Gaza withdrawal plan, no Israeli move toward Syria could be expected soon. 
 Quneitra, a city straddling the cease-fire line from the October 1973 war, its main arteries interrupted by tangles of barbed wire, has been left largely untouched since the Israelis withdrew. Syria says the Israelis dynamited the town as they went; Israel's rather unconvincing explanation, given the neatly collapsed symmetry of house after house, is that warfare destroyed the place. 
 Israel has long suggested that Syria make some public gesture to indicate acceptance of its presence. Analysts expect that Syria might be banking on rebuilding Quneitra as that gesture, although Syrians reject any suggestion that it is being done at Israel's behest. 
 This being Syria, with official decisions shrouded in secrecy, the government-controlled press has not breathed a word about Quneitra. Officials deny anything extraordinary is happening. 
 The few people wandering around the town say that officials tell a different tale in private. 
 Since 1991, Sattouf al-Halaby has run a restaurant overlooking vineyards and hilltops bristling with military antennas on the other side. Barbed wire flanks the restaurant on three sides -- some 20 percent of Quneitra sits across the fence. 
 ''The governor recently slapped me on the back and said I could expect a real bonanza,'' Mr. Halaby said, grinning. 
 The city consists mostly of concrete houses flattened like pancakes amid stands of eucalyptus and pine trees. Officials expect the more important relics -- the hospital, a couple of mosques, the Orthodox cathedral and the movie theater -- will be preserved. 
 No one is sure how Israel will react to any reconstruction, although analysts presume it would welcome the disappearance of ruins used to indoctrinate each new generation. 
 How the United Nations will police the cease-fire line with an entire city rising nearby also remains unclear. Several villages have been rebuilt previously, but on a much smaller scale, and officials said there have been incidents as late as last year of the Israeli military killing two Syrian soldiers who were within 100 yards of the fence. 
 Dr. Cheref Abaza, who represents Quneitra in Parliament, said initial estimates indicated that up to 22,000 housing units would be needed. He was a 27-year-old math teacher when he fled with just the clothes on his back. ''We thought we would go back in a few days after everything calmed down,'' said Mr. Abaza, now a gray-haired doctor, who visits the ruins frequently. ''It was June 5, 1967, and I saw airplanes bombing the streets. The war ended a long time ago, but we have never moved back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Former residents are preparing to return to Quneitra, where rebuilding is seen as a symbol of Syria's faith in a peaceful resolution with Israel of its claim to the Golan Heights, which Israel occupied in the 1967 war. (Photo by Mohamed el-Dakhakhny for The New York Times)Map of Syria highlighting Quneitra: Quneitra, a Syrian provincial capital, is on the 1974 cease-fire line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); RELIGION (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%) United States International Relations

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%) Neil Macfarquhar; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) SYRIA (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (79%) Israel; Syria; Golan Heights; Quneitra (Golan Heights); Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



508 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: REBELS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: ESTIMATES BY U.S. SEE MORE REBELS WITH MORE FUNDS

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER; Eric Schmitt reported from Baghdad and Falluja for this article, and Thom Shanker from Washington.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Senior American officials are beginning to assemble a new portrait of the insurgency that has continued to inflict casualties on American and Iraqi forces, showing that it has significantly more fighters and far greater financial resources than had been estimated. 
 When foreign fighters and the network of a Jordanian militant, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, are counted with home-grown insurgents, the hard-core resistance numbers between 8,000 and 12,000 people, a tally that swells to more than 20,000 when active sympathizers or covert accomplices are included, according to the American officials.
 These estimates contrast sharply with earlier intelligence reports, in which the number of insurgents has varied from as few as 2,000 to a maximum of 7,000. The revised estimate is influencing the military campaign in Iraq, but has not prompted a wholesale review of the strategy, officials said. 
 In recent interviews, military and other government officials in Iraq and Washington said the core of the Iraqi insurgency now consisted of as many as 50 militant cells that draw on ''unlimited money'' from an underground financial network run by former Baath Party leaders and Saddam Hussein's relatives.. 
 Their financing is supplemented in great part by wealthy Saudi donors and Islamic charities that funnel large sums of cash through Syria, according to these officials, who have access to detailed intelligence reports.
 Only half the estimated $1 billion the Hussein government put in Syrian banks before the war has been recovered, Pentagon officials said. There is no tally of money flowing through Syria to Iraq from wealthy Saudis or Islamic charities, but a Pentagon official said the figure is ''significant.''
 Unclassified assessments by some private analysts have recently sounded some of the same warnings. This week, the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, in releasing its annual global military survey, said perhaps 1,000 Islamic jihadists have entered Iraq to join the fight, and it estimated that it would take five years for the American military to prepare Iraqi forces to take over fully from the forces of the United States and its allies.
 American military and Pentagon officials continue to hold that as Iraqi security forces increase in numbers and effectiveness, they will be able to gather even more detailed and timely information, an important consideration if the insurgency is to be stifled. Perhaps the most important variable, these officials note, is that a large segment of the Iraqi population still has not decided whether to give active support to the new government.
 Despite concerns about foreign fighters, American officials said the most significant challenge to the stabilization effort came from domestic Iraqi insurgents, and not from foreign terrorists, despite the violence of attacks organized or carried out by foreigners.
 These officials said that in many places, secular Sunni Muslim insurgent leaders -- mostly Hussein-era supporters -- were being challenged and even surpassed in authority by militant Sunni activists from inside Iraq. This development presents fresh concerns to Ayad Allawi, the interim prime minister, as he tries to negotiate a political solution to stalemates in places like Falluja, where Pentagon and military officials say the insurgency increasingly is taking on a radical Islamic face.
 Throughout the occupation of Iraq, American officials have struggled to construct an accurate portrait of the insurgency they have been fighting. In discussing this most recent intelligence, the officials appeared to present a fuller picture of the security problems than has been provided in previous interviews or other public statements.
 But just as some earlier intelligence estimates before the war have proved incorrect, specialists acknowledge that the current assessments, too, are inevitably imperfect.
 ''What makes it more difficult is that you're dealing with an insurgency without a single face,'' said a senior Army intelligence officer with nearly a year's experience in Iraq. ''It's not just one group of insurgents rallying under one cause. It's multiple groups with different causes loosely tied together by the threads of anti-U.S. sentiment, some sort of Iraqi nationalism, Muslim-Arab unity or greed.'' 
 Another officer, Brig. Gen. John DeFreitas III of the Army, the senior intelligence officer in Iraq, said in an interview in Baghdad, ''It's detective work, and it's very difficult work.'' General DeFreitas called it ''a challenge for the U.S. military to use tools, well designed for maneuver warfare, against an insurgency,'' adding, ''Insurgents don't show up in satellite imagery very well.'' 
 According to data assembled by the military, about 80 percent of the violent attacks are criminal in nature -- kidnappings for ransom or hijackings of convoys -- with no political motivation. Of the other 20 percent, which include the most violent attacks on Iraqi security forces, the American military and international organizations, about four-fifths are attributed to domestic insurgents rather than to foreign terrorists.
 The Ramadan holy season that began this month has prompted a 25 percent increase in daily attacks, according to Pentagon officials, but they see no indication yet of a major insurgent offensive. They did express concerns that such an offensive could come in November or December, as voter registration gets under way in earnest, or could be timed to the elections in January.
 ''What we don't see yet is a unifying leader of the insurgency,'' General DeFreitas said.
 One Pentagon official said that the insurgency was now organized regionally, and that evidence pointed to some planning across regional boundaries. But there is no national insurgent network, the official said.
 Even the Zarqawi organization, which can plan and carry out attacks outside its base in Falluja and the broader Sunni triangle north and west of Baghdad, has no sustained operations or base outside that area, this Pentagon official said. 
 Even as American attacks are killing dozens of fighters and some leadership figures every week, officials said, insurgents in many parts of Iraq have been able to promote lieutenants into higher leadership roles and are able to attract a steady stream of recruits. But some of the new leaders are not as qualified as their predecessors, military officers said, in particular those filling spots in the Zarqawi network in Falluja.
 Senior military and Pentagon officials said the new information was being developed because of the growing role of the Iraqi police and other security forces, who are more adept than American forces at spotting insurgents or people who might come forward with tips. Iraqis are setting up centralized operations centers to share information and coordinate anti-insurgent activities. 
 But a Pentagon official noted evidence that even the new Iraqi security forces had been penetrated by insurgents, or at least by people willing to share information with them.
 One example of that penetration is the Tuesday attack on an Iraqi National Guard base north of Baghdad, which killed 4 and wounded 80. The attack came at the exact time guardsmen were mustering for a ceremony, which is seen by experts as an indication that those firing off the mortars held inside information.
 Military officials say they are getting a clearer view of the major financial backers of the insurgencies, and of the main operatives and their cell networks inside Iraq. The financial leadership is said to number about 20 people, mostly operating outside Iraq.
 Among the most influential militant financiers are members of the Majid family, particularly three cousins of Mr. Hussein, who are actively involved in the smuggling of weapons, fighters and money into Iraq, and who live in Syria. Another key organizer is Muhammad Yunis al-Ahmed, a former Baath Party leader and aide to Mr. Hussein, officials say.
 These former Baathists are helping to arm and equip cell leaders in the Sunni heartland, who in turn run local teams. Many turn to unemployed and disaffected Iraqi men, eager to earn money. The going rate in parts of Baghdad for planting roadside bombs is $100 to $300 for each explosive, a senior military officer said. 
 Military and Pentagon officials say there is no shortage of funds for the insurgency, though the counterinsurgency campaign has slowed the delivery of money to some areas. That prompted a Pentagon official to say guerrilla activities diminish when the money runs low between deliveries.
 Pentagon officials said there appeared to be no official Saudi government support for the financial network, but expressed dissatisfaction with the level of Saudi efforts to block the money transfers. A spokesman for the Saudi Embassy in Washington said his country had strict banking regulations, and would examine any evidence of Saudi citizens' supporting the Iraqi insurgency.
 Earlier this week, in Mahmudiya, American marines said they had discovered the leader of the financing network for Mr. Zarqawi among the detainees at a military camp there. The marines said the man, Mahmud Abdel Aziz al-Harami al-Janabi, was captured along with other suspected militants in a raid on Sunday. And Pentagon officials say that some members of the Zarqawi network have fled Falluja, and that those still inside are setting up military-style defenses in anticipation of a ground attack. 
 And Mr. Zarqawi is being challenged by local tribal and religious leaders, who likewise are seizing the initiative from former government leaders in the area.
 Senior military officials said the recent American-led offensives in Najaf, Tal Afar and Samarra, followed by economic and reconstruction aid, had created a more stable security environment that is leading to more information on the location of insurgents. 
 Marine intelligence officers responsible for operations in western Iraq said there were at least five major insurgent leaders of the groups operating in Falluja, whose aim is to undermine the fledgling Iraqi government, drive out the American troops and make money through smuggling and extortion rackets.
 Marine officers said that in addition to Mr. Zarqawi, a Sunni extremist named Omar Hadid and a sheik named Janabi, a radical Sunni cleric, were both influential anti-American militants.
 They said Mr. Hadid ran a gangland-style operation, making money through car smuggling and hostage-for-ransom operations, as well as from tithes collected by sympathetic mosques.
 Former members of the Baath Party and of Iraqi security services and criminal gangs also operate in Falluja.
 ''It's a loose confederation of interests as well as marriages of convenience,'' Col. Ron Makuta, the chief intelligence officer for the First Marine Expeditionary Force, said in an interview on Thursday at its headquarters at Camp Falluja, outside the city itself.


GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers took positions around a burning supply truck on a highway west of Baghdad yesterday after their convoy was attacked by a small explosive device. No one was reported hurt. (Photo by Asaad Muhsin/Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); CIVIL WAR (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare ; Intelligence Services; Terrorism; Islam; Philanthropy; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%) International Institute for Strategic Studies

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) Eric Schmitt; Thom Shanker; Saddam Hussein; Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (93%); JORDAN (92%) Iraq; Syria; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



509 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Kerry on Hunting Photo-Op to Help Image

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Oct. 21 

 BODY:
Clad in camouflage clothing, a 12-gauge double-barreled shotgun under his arm, Senator John Kerry and three fellow hunters emerged from an eastern Ohio cornfield Thursday morning with four dead geese and an image his aides hope will help shore up his macho bona fides among rural voters.
 ''Everybody got one, everybody got one,'' said Mr. Kerry, his hand stained with goose blood, though he was the only member of the hunting party not carrying a carcass.
 An aide said later that two of the birds would soon be sent back to Mr. Kerry for consumption. 
 The unusual trip in these hectic final days before the election was part of Mr. Kerry's lengthy effort to appeal, as a fellow sportsman, to the rural blue-collar voters who were considered critical to President Bush's victory in heartland states like this one in 2000. It also provided pictures that his aides hope will deflect Mr. Bush's portrayal of Mr. Kerry as a weak-kneed liberal, and fit into a broader effort this week to show him as a ''regular guy,'' drinking beer while watching baseball, and speaking in a folksier style.
 The National Rifle Association, which is spending $20 million to help re-elect Mr. Bush, greeted the political hunting party with a full-page advertisement in a nearby newspaper, The Youngstown Vindicator, that showed a gun-toting Mr. Kerry over the tagline, ''If John Kerry wins, hunters lose.''
 President Bush, campaigning in Hershey, Pa., inserted a line about the Second Amendment into his stump speech and mocked Mr. Kerry, saying, ''He can run -- he can even run in camo -- but he cannot hide.'' 
 Across this swing state in Sylvania, Ohio, Vice President Dick Cheney pointed out Mr. Kerry's ''F'' rating from the N.R.A., stemming from his support of a ban on assault weapons. ''The Second Amendment is more than just a photo opportunity,'' said Mr. Cheney, whose own celebrated duck hunting trip this year -- with Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court -- was not open to news photographers. 
 ''I understand he bought a new camouflage jacket for the occasion, which did make me wonder how regularly he does go goose hunting,'' Mr. Cheney said to a chorus of boos. ''My personal opinion is his new camo jacket is an October disguise, an effort he's making to hide the fact that he votes against gun-owner rights at every turn.''
 In fact, the outfit was borrowed, along with the shotgun, from the farm's owner, and within hours Mr. Kerry was back in tailored suit and rose-colored tie for another photo-op, hugging the widow of the actor Christopher Reeve, who endorsed him because of his backing embryonic stem-cell research. 
 ''My inclination would be frankly to remain private for a good long while,'' said Dana Reeve, whose husband, paralyzed in a riding accident, died Oct. 10. ''But I came here today in support of John Kerry because this is so important. Although our family feels Chris's loss so keenly right now, today is the right moment to transform our grief into hope.''
 If the morning was aimed at white male gun owners, the afternoon speech about stem-cell research and other scientific initiatives was intended to woo women in swing states, particularly suburban independents and Republicans. It was the third speech Mr. Kerry had devoted to the topic, which provides one of his surest applause lines at rallies, and the emotional appeal to millions of disease-sufferers and their families was underlined by Ms. Reeve's introduction.
 ''Some people ask, How can we do it?'' Mr. Kerry said after laying out his plan for supporting research. ''My question is, How can we commit ourselves to anything less?''
 Quoting John F. Kennedy and the former astronaut John Glenn, who is one of his most frequent campaign companions and sat behind him on the stage, Mr. Kerry painted Mr. Bush as a Luddite who favors ideology over science.
 ''He would have sided with the candle lobby against electricity, he would have been with the buggy-makers against the cars, and the typewriter companies against the computers,'' Mr. Kerry said to guffaws. ''The administration's approach on scientific research is the same pattern that we see in Iraq and on the economy today: If their policy isn't supported by the facts, then they just change the facts to fit the policy that they want.''
 Thursday's was the fourth in a series of speeches, filled with four-point plans, that Mr. Kerry has given this week, a detour from the routine of quick rallies that normally fills a campaign's last chapter. His aides said the speeches -- on health care, fiscal discipline and Iraq, with one on women's rights and another on faith coming Friday and Sunday -- showed Mr. Kerry making a substantive case, selling a serious man for serious times.
 But after these formal sessions in front of the teleprompter, Mr. Kerry has been doing what he can to seem more down to earth. He uses more contractions and drops G's, T's, and N's, making ''does not'' sound like ''dudnt,'' and ''government'' come out, as it might have in the Old West, ''guvmint.'' As his beloved Boston Red Sox made history this week by coming back from a three-game deficit to clinch the American League championship, Mr. Kerry made several rare appearances in the press cabin of his plane to chitchat about baseball.
 ''Historic, absolutely stunning,'' he said Thursday of the previous night's record-breaking win over the Yankees, clutching a timeworn blue Sox cap in one fist and pumping the other several times for emphasis. ''Gutsy. Unbelievably gutsy team, with a whole lot of heart.''
 The ''regular guy'' theme was ratcheted up with the morning's outing, Mr. Kerry's second hunting photo opportunity of this campaign (he has also twice gone trap shooting). But despite his frequent invocations of his hunting experience, Mr. Kerry seems to be faring no better among gun owners than former Vice President Al Gore, whose high-profile support of gun control many Democrats blame for his 2000 defeat.
 A Gallup poll conducted a week ago showed Mr. Bush leading among gun owners, 56 percent to Mr. Kerry's 35 percent; four years ago, exit polls showed that gun owners made up 48 percent of the electorate, and Mr. Bush won their votes, 61 percent to 36 percent. A separate survey by the Pew Research Center showed that 45 percent of swing voters say gun control is ''very important'' to their vote.
 ''We want people to have a better sense of John Kerry the guy,'' explained Mike McCurry, a senior campaign spokesman, saying the coming days would bring more outdoor activities that ''show people the kinds of things he likes,'' like baseball and hockey.
 Asked whether final-stretch photo opportunities might include windsurfing, the hobby that has helped tag Mr. Kerry with an elitist's image, Mr. McCurry said, ''It's too cold this time of year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Reeve, the widow of Christopher Reeve, endorsed Senator John Kerry yesterday. John Glenn is at left. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); ETHICS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Hunting and Trapping; Election Issues; Medicine and Health; Fetal Tissue; Presidential Election of 2004; Research; Ethics; Ratings and Rating Systems; Geese; Firearms; Gun Control

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (82%) National Rifle Assn

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (52%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Dana Reeve; Christopher Reeve

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



510 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Deal on Trump Debt Includes Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts Inc. said yesterday that it had reached an agreement with bondholders that would reduce its debt through a bankruptcy and leave Donald J. Trump in charge.
 The agreement would reduce the company's $1.8 billion debt by $400 million as part of a filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, expected by the end of November, Trump Hotels said. 
 A planned $400 million investment from Mr. Trump, the company's chairman and chief executive, and a Credit Suisse First Boston unit fell apart in September.
 Bondholders agreed to swap their debt for $74 million in cash, $395 million in common stock and $1.25 billion in new 10-year notes with an interest rate of 8.5 percent, the company said.
 Mr. Trump, 58, would retain his positions, while his equity stake would be cut to 27 percent from 56 percent. He would invest $71.4 million in the restructured company by converting $16.4 million of company bonds he owns into common stock and buying $55 million in equity with cash. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); RESORTS (90%); GAMING (90%); BONDS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); DEBT NOTES (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); COMMON STOCK (87%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (51%) Gambling; Bankruptcies; Casinos; Gambling

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (94%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts Inc

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%) Donald J Trump

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Atlantic City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004



511 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: American Airlines Warns About Big Layoffs

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
American Airlines told its employees last night that it planned to lay off as many as 1,100 pilots, mechanics and other employees, as part of a cost-cutting program.
 American, the nation's biggest airline, said in a memorandum that it planned to cut up to 450 pilots by next summer, and up to 650 maintenance workers at bases in Kansas City, Mo., and St. Louis. 
 In addition, the airline, a unit of AMR Corporation, said it planned to reduce flight attendant jobs through attrition after the beginning of the year. Some customer service positions would also be cut. 
 American said it had not calculated the total number of layoffs that would be necessary.
 An American spokesman, Tim Wagner, said the airline had promised to tell employees about the cuts before discussing them publicly. He would not comment further.
 Word of the cuts came two days after American reported a $214 million third-quarter loss, and said that it expected a ''significantly wider'' fourth-quarter loss. The airline blamed rising jet fuel prices, which have jumped more than 50 percent in the last year, as well as the impact of hurricanes on its operations in Florida and the Caribbean.
 American has been on an aggressive cost-cutting drive since early 2003. It won $1.8 billion a year in wage and benefit concessions 18 months ago, after threatening to seek bankruptcy protection, and it has been examining every aspect of its operations in a bid to save money.
 But this week, the airline said that it would start a new effort in the wake of its deteriorating financial situation. American said it planned to cut operations by 5 percent, ground 15 narrow-bodied planes, cancel orders for 18 regional jets and begin cutting flights on routes where it was losing money.
 American said that it would start putting back some seats in its coach sections, which it removed as part of an effort to promote the roominess of its economy class.
 In a statement, the Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's pilots, said it was deeply disappointed with the airline's third-quarter results. ''That said,'' the union said in the statement, '' we believe our proactive approach last year was prudent, appropriate and beyond Wall Street's expectations. Nothing in the current situation convinces us otherwise.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); JET FUEL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (55%); FUEL MARKETS (52%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



512 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The More Things Change . . .

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Why is this country still tied?
 Over the past four years, we've experienced a major terrorist attack, a recession, a dot-com shakeout, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, corporate scandals and an active and tumultuous presidency. We've had an influx of new citizens. Millions have died of old age, and tens of millions have moved to new towns and new states. 
 Yet the political landscape looks almost exactly the same. We're still divided right down the middle. We're still looking at razor-thin margins in states like Florida. If you compare the demographic breakdowns of the Bush-Kerry race to those of the Bush-Gore race in 2000, you find they are quite similar. Why does everything in America change except politics?
 That is the central mystery of this election. 
 The only possible conclusion is that there is some deep, tectonic fissure that shapes the electorate, a fissure so fundamental that it is unaffected by the enormous shocks we've felt over the past four years. Remember, it is very unusual to have two close presidential elections in a row. This hasn't occurred for about 120 years.
 But what explains this stable divide?
 Let me first tell you what it is not. Foreign, domestic and social policy debates do not explain the current tie. The election of 2000 was fought on a different set of issues. Then, we were arguing about things like lockboxes, compassionate conservatism and how to use the surplus. Now, we're arguing about war, terrorism and the deficit. The issues have changed, but the political landscape has not. 
 Moreover, as the Stanford political scientist Morris Fiorina has shown, Americans are not that polarized on issues. When you ask people about policies -- even abortion -- you see a big group of moderates. If issue differences were shaping this campaign, you'd see these centrists sloshing back and forth and breaking the tie. 
 But two forces do account for the stable political divide. First, partisanship. We've just seen how passionately some people care about the Yankees and the Red Sox. Many people care that passionately about being a Democrat or a Republican. 
 Human beings are tribal. When they find themselves in a closely fought contest with a rival group, they become ever more tightly bound to their tribe. They see reality in ways that flatter the group. They nurture the resentments that bind the group.
 In this campaign the two candidates do not just describe different policies. They describe different realities. In short, the partisan rivalry fuels itself. Once an electorate becomes tied, there is a built-in emotional pressure that keeps things that way. Even people who claim to be independents find themselves sucked into the vortex. 
 Second, and probably more important, we're in the middle of a leadership war. Underneath all the disputes about Iraq, we're having a big argument about what qualities America should have in a leader. Republicans trust one kind of leader, Democrats another. This is the constant that runs through recent elections.
 Republicans, from Reagan to Bush, particularly admire leaders who are straight-talking men of faith. The Republican leader doesn't have to be book smart, and probably shouldn't be narcissistically introspective. But he should have a clear, broad vision of America's exceptional role in the world. Democrats, on the other hand, are more apt to emphasize such leadership skills as being knowledgeable and thoughtful. They value leaders who can see complexities, who possess the virtues of the well-educated.
 Republicans and Democrats have different conceptions of the presidency. Republicans admire a president who is elevated above his executive branch colleagues. It is impossible to imagine George W. Bush or Reagan as a cabinet secretary. Instead, they are set apart by virtue of exceptional moral qualities. Relying on their core values, they set broad goals and remain resolute in times of crisis.
 Democrats see the presidency as a much more ministerial job. They admire presidents who engage in constant deliberative conversations. Democrats from Carter through Mondale, Dukakis, Clinton, Gore and Kerry have all been well versed in the inner workings of government. It is easy to imagine each of them serving as a cabinet secretary.
 It just so happens that America is evenly divided about what sort of leader we need: the Republican who leads with his soul or the Democrat who leads with his judgment. Even the events of the past four years have not altered that disagreement.
 That's why we are still tied. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); SCANDALS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



513 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Chips Made to Order And a Forecast That Sees A New Order of Business

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
At 73, Morris Chang has reason to boast. The business he founded 17 years ago, the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, is the goliath of Taiwan's modern microchip industry and the world's biggest manufacturer of made-to-order chips. This month, it announced record quarterly revenue for the second consecutive time.
 But when Mr. Chang speaks of the future of the chip business, he sounds somber. Like many global executives, perhaps his biggest long-run worry can be traced to China's rising industrial power. His immediate concern, however, is more basic.
 ''We're all going to see lower growth in the next 10 years,'' he said from his spartan office. Next year ''will not be a very high-growth year, but it will be a positive year; beyond that I'm pessimistic.'' 
 Investors seem to agree. After a yearlong boom in chip sales, orders have slowed since early summer. In recent weeks, many analysts have cut their projections for the fourth quarter and beyond, citing the damping effect of high oil prices and bulging inventories.
 The warnings have battered semiconductor shares, among them TSMC, as Mr. Chang's company is widely known, and Intel, the Silicon Valley global chip giant. 
 What is worse, Mr. Chang sees this looming downturn not simply as the latest plunge in the semiconductor industry's typical roller coaster progress, but as a more fundamental reordering of the business. Lower growth but greater outsourcing, rising competition from China and the spiraling cost of staying at the technological forefront, he says, are impelling industry leaders to reconsider their approach to the business. 
 TSMC -- a flagship of Taiwan's technology economy with revenue last year of nearly $6 billion and the pacesetter for global contract microchip makers -- cannot afford to stand still.
 ''We have to maximize our advantage in technology, manufacturing and customer partnerships,'' Mr. Chang said.
 As it braces for the changes, TSMC certainly has a head start over its rivals. Taiwan Semiconductor virtually created the made-to-order semiconductor industry it now dominates. 
 After a long career at Texas Instruments and a stint in charge of Taiwan's top industrial research lab, Mr. Chang started the company in 1987 with government support and private investment largely from Philips, the Dutch electronics concern. 
 At the time, microchips were nearly all designed and manufactured by a few dominant companies. Mr. Chang saw an opening for a ''foundry'' company to custom-make semiconductors for companies that were developing their own designs and specifications without the industrial capacity to make chips themselves. 
 ''TSMC was the first to provide that platform,'' said Marco Iansiti, a professor at Harvard Business School who studies the semiconductor sector. ''They said, 'We can have much more impact by giving our tools to third parties.'''
 Mr. Chang talks with the measured poise of a senior professor, but he is known as an unrelenting competitor. By the late 1990's his company and a handful of other contract chip makers nearly caught up with the technology of established full-range makers like Intel and I.B.M. Now TSMC churns out chips with nodes 130 nanometers across, the smallest scale widely on offer, and is moving, not far behind the pacesetters, to production at 90 nanometers and ultimately even narrower. 
 TSMC has about 40 percent of the world's contract chip market, double its nearest rival, United Microelectronics, another Taiwan company. As the cost of building an advanced chip-making factory escalates toward $3 billion or more, those capable of spreading that cost across a wide range of clients are expected to gain market share.
 ''We are in a new phase of lower growth,'' said Mark Edelstone, a semiconductor industry analyst with Morgan Stanley, ''but the bigger factor is the trend towards outsourcing, which is going to accelerate.''
 He estimated that about a fifth of the $210 billion semiconductor industry is outsourced to contractors like TSMC. By the end of the decade, he predicted, nearly a third of what should then be a $350 billion industry will be made by contract manufacturers.
 But as they scramble to maintain their edge, TSMC and the handful of other foundries are saddled with special burdens. Their industry combines the high-wire risks of constantly advancing technology, opaque and often erratic market demand, and a voracious appetite for capital to pay for manufacturing equipment. 
 ''There is good money in foundries, but it's not for the faint of heart,'' said Len Jelinek, the principal semiconductor analyst of iSuppli, an electronics market research firm in El Segundo, Calif. ''Foundries almost have to put capacity in front of demand.'' 
 The problem with that approach, Mr. Jelinek pointed out, is that almost invariably ''manufacturers overshoot on capacity and then prices decline.''
 Even as the industry braces itself for the down slope of the next cycle, Mr. Chang says that the next upturn is unlikely to be as strong as before. The industry is maturing, analysts say. Even as digital technology continues to proliferate, demand for chips in laptop computers, cellphones and other electronic devices is not growing as fast as it once did.
 Mr. Chang said that he expected growth over the next 10 years to average roughly 7 to 8 percent a year, well below the double-digit gains the industry has enjoyed for decades.
 His company has plowed billions of dollars into developing the next generation of chips to keep up with the industry maxim -- first propounded by Gordon Moore, a co-founder of Intel -- that the capability of microchips can be expected to double every 18 to 24 months or so. But Mr. Chang warned that the market may soon be lagging behind the potential for innovation.
 ''If Moore's law has not slowed down in the lab,'' he said, ''it will surely slow down in the marketplace, and that in turn will have an effect on foundries.''
 That slowdown, he says, may eventually make it easier for less technically savvy competitors to lure lower-end customers from TSMC.
 For TSMC and other Taiwan chip makers, many new competitors and customers are in China, which buys 13 percent of the world's semiconductors, double its share four years ago.
 Taiwan's semiconductor companies are eager to invest in China's booming electronics market. But they are caught in a political and diplomatic vise. In Taiwan's tense standoff with China over the island's status, Taipei is reluctant to allow the most advanced technology to move to the mainland, while China is all the more eager to establish a toehold in the strategically sensitive semiconductor industry.
 The biggest and most threatening of Mr. Chang's mainland rivals is Semiconductor Manufacturing International of Shanghai, which started production in 2001. It recently opened a plant in Beijing that is not at the technological frontier but which can already make chips with smaller transistors than Taiwanese companies are allowed to produce on the mainland.
 Beijing bowed to demands from Washington to stop giving SMIC and other local chip makers tax rebates that appeared to violate global trade laws. But the government said it would seek other ways to support the industry and China's share of global wafer capacity is expected to reach 9 percent by 2007, up from 4 percent in 2003.
 In 2002 Taiwan's government removed its ban on investment in Chinese semiconductor plants, but it has resisted lobbying from chip makers to further lower the barriers to moving production to the mainland.
 Mr. Chang, who is opening his first mainland foundry next year near Shanghai, said he feared that excess Chinese capacity in low-end chips might drag down prices. But he remains confident that Chinese foundries are still years away from challenging TSMC's leadership role.
 ''It will be difficult for big customers to move over to SMIC,'' said Eric Fok, a semiconductor analyst with CCID Consulting in Beijing, a company closely linked with China's information industry ministry. ''There may be some strategic relocation of orders, but unless TSMC makes major missteps it will be difficult to overtake.''
 Taiwan Semiconductor is also bolstering its defenses by suing SMIC for infringing on its intellectual property. Last December, the company lodged claims in American courts that SMIC stole its managers and production techniques. Mr. Chang and his colleagues refused to comment on the case.
 Those closely guarded production processes are at the heart of TSMC's efforts to prevent customers drifting to Chinese competitors. Like other Taiwan semiconductor makers, it is focusing on ways to deepen chip designers' and clients' dependence on their services.
 Mr. Chang said TSMC planned to allow customers, including Motorola, Philips and Texas Instruments, more access to its engineering and manufacturing processes to help them avoid costly production delays and technical failures.
 Despite his age, Mr. Chang has no plans to quit running the company. After his early years in war-stricken China, Mr. Chang's family fled the encroaching Communist forces in 1949 and moved to the United States, where he earned an engineering degree from M.I.T. That unsettled childhood, he says, helped imbue him with his competitive resilience. 
 ''I think after some time I will shift more executive duties,'' he said, ''but I plan to be chairman for a long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Morris Chang, 73, the chairman of the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company in Taipai, says that he expects to see slower growth in the semiconductor industry for the next 10 years. (Photo by Chao-Yang Chan for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips

COMPANY: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (96%); INTEL CORP (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co

TICKER: TSM (NYSE) (96%); TSFA (FRA) (96%); 2330 (TAIEX) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (96%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: Chris Buckley; Morris Chang

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) TAIWAN (96%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



514 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: In Swing States, Growth of Jobs Has Faltered

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
As job growth has picked up in many areas of the country, employment has continued to falter in some crucial battleground states, the government reported yesterday. 
 In the last state-level employment report to be issued before the election on Nov. 2, the Labor Department found that the job market in September remained relatively weak in the politically divided states along the Great Lakes, and it even took a tumble in Florida, which was hit hard this summer by several hurricanes. 
 Michigan lost an estimated 15,000 jobs last month, the department reported. 
 ''What we're seeing here is a stagnation; we are not seeing an uptick at all,'' said Sharon Parks, vice president for policy at the Michigan League of Human Services in Lansing, an advocacy organization for low-income people. Median household income in the state has fallen 3 percent since 2000, she said. 
 Similarly, Wisconsin lost 7,000 jobs in September, and Minnesota 2,200 jobs.
 Employment increased by 5,500 positions in Ohio, however, and grew by almost 5,000 jobs in Pennsylvania during the month.
 In Florida, which has been enjoying a generally strong economy for months, employers cut a net 9,500 jobs. 
 The new state-by-state jobs picture underscored the hopscotch nature of the economic recovery, making it harder to predict the effect of a generally lackluster job market on the attitudes of voters in the swing states that will ultimately decide the result of the presidential election.
 The report showed job gains in 33 states in September, declining employment in 16 and the District of Columbia, and flat results in one state. Over the last 12 months, employment has increased in 47 states and the District of Columbia and decreased in 3, the Labor Department said. 
 But the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research center in Washington, pointed out that 32 states still have fewer jobs than they did just before the nation entered the last recession in March 2001. Except for Alaska, job growth in every state has lagged working-age population growth since then, the institute found.
 The job market has been particularly bleak in the nation's industrial heartland, where manufacturers have been relentlessly cutting jobs for three years, hurt in part by the dollar's high valuation against foreign currencies, which has intensified the effect of competition from abroad. 
 Pennsylvania has actually gained 43,000 jobs since September of last year. Of the three states that have fewer people working now than they did 12 months ago, one was Michigan, which has lost 52,500 jobs, and one was Ohio, which has shed nearly 18,000 jobs. The third was Massachusetts.
 Ohio, despite its September gains, is still more than 200,000 jobs short of where it was when President Bush took office.
 ''This year we've been doing much worse than the rest of the country,'' said Zach Schiller, director of research at Policy Matters Ohio, a public policy research institute. ''We win jobs one month and lose them the next. We've had no sustained improvement.'' With 17 electoral votes, Michigan -- which polls show is leaning toward Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee -- is of crucial importance to Mr. Kerry's prospects. So is Pennsylvania, with 21 electoral votes.
 The winner in Ohio, considered slightly in President Bush's favor but also still up for grabs, gets 20 electoral votes. 
 Outside the Midwest, the most important state is Florida, which has 27 electoral votes.
 The string of four hurricanes that hit the United States from August through September clearly affected the job market there and in some nearby states. But, the Labor Department said it could not quantify the overall impact of the storms on the employment situation.
 Senator Kerry tried to gain some leverage from the latest job report, issuing a statement yesterday noting that 46 states have higher unemployment rates today than when President Bush took office. 
 ''George Bush is the first president in 72 years to lose jobs on his watch,'' Senator Kerry said yesterday during a campaign speech in Milwaukee. ''This state hasn't gained a single job in the last four years. Not exactly what I'd call an economic recovery.'' 
 President Bush, in a campaign stop yesterday in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., argued that he inherited a troubled economy from his predecessor, asking his supporters to ''remind your friends'' that the 2000 stock market decline that heralded the downturn started before he arrived in office, and that the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, cost nearly a million jobs.
 But for all the back-and-forth over jobs, the economy may matter less in this election than in the past. ''The war and terrorism,'' Ms. Parks, the Michigan advocate for the poor, said, ''are eclipsing everything else.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris Metzger reviews a list of civil-service jobs at the Pennsylvania Department of Labor Career Center facility in Reading, Pa., last month. (Photo by Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)Chart/Map: ''An Uneven Jobs Picture''Some states have had strong employment growth since the last recession began in March 2001, but many states have yet to recoup lost jobs.Map of the United States highlighting the change in nonfarm payrolls from March 2001 to Sept. 2004* and swing states.*Figures are seasonally adjusted
 Sept. 2004 figures are estimated(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); CURRENCIES (60%) Labor; Election Issues; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; States (US); Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); GREAT LAKES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



515 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Security Firm Managers Allege Deceit on Iraq
Managers of a security firm that won large contracts in Iraq warned their bosses last February of a pattern of fraudulent billing practices, internal company memorandums suggest. The memorandums charge that the security firm, Custer Battles, repeatedly billed occupation authorities for nonexistent services or at grossly inflated prices. A1

France's antiterrorist police identified a young French man killed fighting the United States in Iraq, the first confirmed case of what is believed to be a growing stream of Muslims heading from Europe to fight what they regard as a new holy war. A1

A British-Iraqi aid worker held hostage by militants made a tearful televised plea, begging the people of Britain and Prime Minister Tony Blair to save her life by withdrawing troops from Iraq. The worker, Margaret Hassan, is the director of CARE International in Iraq. A8

A military judge rejected efforts by two soldiers charged in the Abu Ghraib scandal to obtain testimony from military intelligence officers about whether the soldiers were ordered or encouraged to take part in abuse of detainees. The judge ordered the soldiers to stand trial in Baghdad early next year. A8

Plan for Incentives Toward Iran
Britain, France and Germany are working to give Iran a last chance to avoid confrontation with the West over its nuclear program by offering incentives to curtail its most sensitive activities. The Iranian government has given no indication that it will accept the plan. A9

Search for Chechen Insurgents
The senior law enforcement official in Chechnya said the authorities had nearly captured Aslan Maskhadov, a leader of the Chechen resistance, and that Mr. Maskhadov was planning to surrender soon. The Kremlin has made the capture of insurgent leaders a priority in its effort to quell the Chechen guerrilla war. A3

Emissions Treaty Progressing
Russia's lower house of Parliament voted overwhelmingly to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, clearing another hurdle for the international treaty aimed at reducing emissions blamed for global warming. A2

North Korean Terms for U.S.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is headed to Asia for a tour of Japan, China and South Korea. North Korea set out conditions for regional talks on its nuclear weapons program. The United States must drop its hostile policy, join an economic aid program for the North, and agree to discuss ''South Korea's nuclear problem.'' A9

Castro Promotes Hearty Image
President Fidel Castro of Cuba, taking pains to demonstrate that he retains firm control after fracturing his knee and arm in a fall at a public event, says he conducted government business by cellphone during an ambulance ride and later refused general anesthesia. A2


NATIONAL A10-15

Republicans Send Recruits To Contest Voters in Ohio
Republican Party officials in Ohio took formal steps to place thousands of recruits inside polling places on Election Day to challenge the qualifications of voters suspected of not being eligible to cast ballots. A1

Bush and Kerry on the Trail
President Bush said Americans had to judge who would keep them safer from terrorism, portraying Senator John Kerry as dangerously naive and so weak on national security that his election would all but invite attacks on the United States. A13

Senator John Kerry, hoping that women's economic anxieties trump their fears of terrorism, vowed to fight for equal pay and minimum-wage increase, more money for education and health coverage for minors. A13

Courting Conservationists
Each campaign is courting the conservationist vote in swing states like Wisconsin and Nevada, mainly among outdoorsmen, though the word ''environment'' came up just once in the three presidential debates. A14

Contrasting Vice Presidents
The performances of Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards on the campaign trail clearly delineate the differences between them. A12

Boston Tightens Security
Boston officials plan to impose restrictions on the bars around Fenway Park and are considering discontinuing use of the pepper-spray gun after a Red Sox fan died after being hit by a police pepper-spray projectile after the team's playoff victory. A10

Joint Chief Splits With Cabinet
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has taken a position at odds with the White House in urging Congress to restrict the powers of a new national intelligence director in developing Pentagon budgets. A15

Anti-Radiation Plan Lagging
A plan to stockpile pills to protect against one of the contaminants that could leak from a nuclear power plant in the event of a terrorist attack appears to have slipped through the cracks. A15

Plight of Part-Time Soldiers
Thousands of soldiers in the National Guard and Reserves who were injured on duty are navigating a system suited to full-time soldiers. Most are required to stay on a base to finish evaluations that will decide whether they return to duty or leave with disability payments. A1

Beliefs A15

OBITUARIES A18

Betty Hill
A New Hampshire social worker whose assertion that she was carried off by otherworldly beings in 1961 inspired a national obsession with alien abduction that remains a staple of American culture, she was 85. A18

NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5

Report Points to Dangers At Highway Checkpoints
The National Transportation Safety Board issued a recommendation that the warning signs for an immigration checkpoint at North Hudson, N.Y., gave either too little information for drivers or a dizzying array of directions that could be confusing. The report cited two major crashes near the checkpoint, including a pileup that killed four people. B1

Victory for a Younger Brother
A judge handed a victory to Zalmen Teitelbaum, the younger of two brothers in a feud over who will succeed their father, the spiritual leader of the Satmar Hasidim, the largest Hasidic sect in Brooklyn. B3

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

No Vaccine Shortage in Europe
Vaccination programs in Europe are progressing smoothly with a good supply of medicine, health authorities say, while patients are panicking over a shortage of flu vaccines in the United States. A10

Nine patients at a Manhattan nursing home were diagnosed with the flu, signaling the first outbreak of the illness in the city this season, the health department said. Two-thirds of the city's nursing homes have not received vaccine shipments. B15

ARTS A16-17

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: How to skew intelligence; vaccine for Congress and the bears; Karen Freeman on how it pays to be Irish.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Google's Stock Price Soars
Google shares surged by more than $23 to close at $172.43, after the company reported better-than-expected earnings on Thursday. The stock has more than doubled since an initial public offering at $85 in August. C1

Marsh C.E.O. May Depart
The directors of Marsh & McLennan, under pressure from regulators, are moving to force the resignation of Jeffrey W. Greenberg, the company's chief executive, according to people briefed on the discussions. C1

Citigroup Receives Warning
Citigroup said federal regulators had warned the bank that an investigation of its asset management unit could result in an enforcement action against the executive who ran the division until this week. C1

Delta May Seek Bankruptcy
Delta Air Lines could seek bankruptcy protection as soon as next week, unless it reaches a deal with pilots and makes progress in restructuring its debt, people with knowledge of the company's plans said. C2

Rough Week for Stocks
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 107.95 points, to 9,757.81, 175.57 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 38.48 points, to 1,915.14, 3.64 points higher than last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

Bridge B16
Crossword B16
TV Listings B18
Weather D10


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (88%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); EMISSIONS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SCANDALS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); RELIGION (70%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); BONE FRACTURES (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CARE (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (54%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (85%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



516 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Closes Above $55; Tight Winter Supply Is Seen

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices climbed again yesterday, closing above $55 a barrel for the first time, on concerns that supplies will be stretched thin this winter while demand from China remains solid.
 Crude oil futures for December delivery rose 70 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $55.17 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Heating oil futures rose 1.49 cents, to $1.594 a gallon, for November delivery. (The heating oil contract touched a record $1.60 a gallon during trading.) 
 Record demand for oil has pushed prices up by two-thirds this year while supplies have lagged. With political uncertainty in Iraq, Russia and Venezuela, oil traders fear that any disruption in supplies will be hard to match at a time when most producers are pumping flat out.
 Oil prices flirted around $55 a barrel twice this week before easing off each time. Yesterday, they shot up as a report showed the Chinese economy grew at 9.1 percent in the third quarter, according to figures from China's National Bureau of Statistics. A survey of eight economists polled by Bloomberg News had forecast an 8.9 percent jump in the quarter.
 ''Everything is still plowing ahead,'' said Tom Bentz, an oil broker at BNP Paribas in New York. ''Reports from China indicate that the economy continued to be strong in the third quarter, which will lead to continued strength in demand for petroleum products.'' 
 Mr. Bentz said a record close on a Friday could signal higher prices next week. Most analysts expect oil prices to remain high at least through winter.
 In the United States, oil markets are still reeling from damage inflicted by Hurricane Ivan, which hit Florida and the Gulf of Mexico more than a month ago.
 That region, which accounts for a quarter of domestic production in the United States, has lost 22 million barrels of oil since the hurricane, and daily production is still down by a quarter, according to the federal Minerals Management Service.
 The shortfall comes at a bad time because refineries at this point in the year typically switch their output from mostly gasoline, used more in the summer, to heating oil for the winter. 
 ''There's no reason to cool it off,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a Washington-based consultant, in reference to crude oil prices. ''China is still around, plus there are bottlenecks in refinery and constraints in transportation.'' 
 The International Energy Agency said last week that there were signs that growth in oil demand from China was easing. That led the agency, which advises 26 oil-consuming nations, to reduce its forecast for global oil demand for 2005 by 70,000 barrels a day. 
 To slow its economy, the Chinese government has imposed lending curbs on some sectors like construction, steel making and transportation. Some of the measures seem to have succeeded, at least to some extent. In the second quarter, the Chinese economy grew at 9.6 percent.
 Still, Chinese oil demand is expected to grow 15 percent this year, to 6.3 million barrels a day, according to the I.E.A. In the last four years, China accounted for 40 percent of the growth in world oil demand.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since May 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); HURRICANES (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



517 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

After Red Sox Fan Dies, Boston Tightens Rules
In the wake of the death of a young Red Sox fan hit by a plastic ball fired from a police pepper-spray gun after the team's playoff victory, Boston officials are imposing restrictions on the bars around Fenway Park. Police officials are also considering discontinuing use of the pepper-spray gun.
 Mayor Thomas M. Menino said the security measures were meant to curb raucous behavior during the World Series. PAGE A10

An Ancient Rivalry Resumes
With a World Series history dating to 1946, when Johnny Pesky might or might not have held on to the ball too long, the Boston Red Sox and the St. Louis Cardinals will play Game 1 of the Series tonight at Fenway Park. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

Hostage Begs for Her Life
In video shown on Al Jazeera, the Arab satellite television network, Margaret Hassan, the British-Iraqi aid worker held by militants in Iraq since Tuesday, begged the people of Britain and Prime Minister Tony Blair to spare her life by withdrawing troops from Iraq. PAGE A8

Pep Rally for Google Shares
Wall Street analysts quickly raised their price targets for Google's stock after the company's strong earnings report. The cheerleading for Google sometimes sounds a lot like the days of the dot-com bubble. But analysts point out that Google is actually making money. PAGE C1

Head of Joint Chiefs Seeks Limits on New Spy Chief
Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has taken a position at odds with the White House, urging Congress to restrict the powers of a new national intelligence director in developing budgets at the Pentagon.
 General Myers stated his case in a letter to Congress, where negotiators are working out a compromise between the House and Senate versions of legislation enacting the recommendations of the independent Sept. 11 commission. PAGE A15


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Al Jazeera via Agence France-PresseGetty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (66%); ESPIONAGE (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



518 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Congress May Try to Tackle Price of Health Coverage
Regardless of who wins the presidential election, Congress will soon take up the idea of lowering the cost of health insurance by shielding employers from the most expensive medical cases, lawmakers and lobbyists say.
 Although John Kerry's proposal calls for a larger government role than a plan suggested by the Senate Republican leader, Bill Frist, the goals are similar: to reduce the burden on employers when their workers' medical bills rise above a certain threshold. [Page A1.]

Delta Weighs a Chapter 11 Filing
Delta Air Lines could seek bankruptcy protection as soon as next week, unless it reaches a deal with pilots and makes progress in restructuring its debt, people with knowledge of the company's plans said. [C2.]

United Airlines has agreed to hire a consultant to review its business plan. [C2.]

American Airlines told employees it plans to lay off up to 1,100 workers, including as many as 450 pilots, as part of a cost-cutting plan. It will also reduce flight attendant jobs through attrition after the beginning of the year. [C12.]

Nextel Reports Big Profit Jump
Nextel Communications said its profits jumped 69 percent in the third quarter from the same period last year, and that earnings and subscriber growth for the full year would exceed initial estimates. ''Sitting where I am, I'm very confident about 2005'' as well, said Paul Saleh, left, Nextel's chief financial officer. The company expects to sign up 2 million new cellphone customers this year instead of its earlier forecast of 1.9 million. [C13.]

Cross-Examination in Disney Trial
Defense lawyers in the Disney trial tried to undermine the credibility of a witness who testified that company directors had neglected their oversight duties when they hired and later fired Michael S. Ovitz. [C2.]

China's Economy Surges Ahead
China's economy continued to grow rapidly in the most recent quarter, despite government efforts to cool investment. The economy grew an annualized 9.1 percent in the third quarter over the year-ago quarter. [C3.]

Britain's economy grew only 0.4 percent in the third quarter, the weakest quarterly performance since the beginning of 2003. [C3.]

Airline Settles Drug Case With U.S.
Avianca Airlines, Colombia's national airline, reached a settlement with the Justice Department over accusations that it did not adequately police its planes as they brought cocaine and heroin into the United States. [C3.]

Crude Oil Closes Above $55 a Barrel
Oil prices climbed again, closing above $55 a barrel for the first time, on concerns about short supplies for the winter and strong demand from China. Record demand for oil has pushed prices up by two-thirds this year. [C4.]

Oil Prices Worry Stock Investors
Stocks tumbled as oil prices rose and earnings reports failed to spur buying. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 107.95 points to 9,757.81, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.75 points to 1,095.74. The Nasdaq dropped 2 percent. [C4.]

Ericsson Says Future Is Less Rosy
Ericsson, the largest maker of cellphone networks, had a quarterly profit but lowered its outlook for next year. It reported net income of $668 million for the third quarter. [C3.]

Bush Signs Corporate Tax Bill
President Bush signed into law a nearly $140 billion corporate tax cut. The law aims to end a trade fight with the European Union by repealing some export tax subsidies, but Europe has objected to some provisions. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,757.81 down 107.95Nasdaq composite -- 1,915.14 down 38.4810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.97% down 0.03The euro -- $1.2648 up 0.0032The dollar -- 107.26 yen down 0.19Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average since Jan. 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (84%); TESTIMONY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); LAWYERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); COCAINE (60%); HEROIN (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (72%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (72%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PAUL SALEH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



519 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Bush Attacks Kerry as Weak on Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
President Bush said on Friday that Americans had to judge who would keep them safer from terrorism, portraying Senator John Kerry as dangerously naive and so weak on national security that his election would all but invite attacks on the United States.
 ''He considers the war on terror primarily a law enforcement and intelligence-gathering operation,'' Mr. Bush said, seizing again on recent remarks by Richard C. Holbrooke, a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Kerry that ''we're not in a war on terror in the literal sense'' and that the phrase is a metaphor like President Lyndon B. Johnson's evocation of a war on poverty. 
 ''I've got news,'' Mr. Bush said, in his first public appearance of the day, in a hockey arena in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. ''Anyone who thinks we are fighting a metaphor does not understand the enemy we face and has no idea how to win the war and keep America secure.''
 At the same time, Mr. Bush's campaign released one of the hardest-hitting advertisements of the hard-hitting campaign. The commercial, which shows wolves in the woods moving menacingly toward the camera, says Mr. Kerry had supported budget cuts in intelligence in the 1990's ''so deep they would have weakened America's defenses,'' an assertion followed by the statement, ''And weakness attracts those who are waiting to do America harm.''
 Mr. Kerry has repeatedly set out his own approach to fighting terrorism and keeping the nation secure. His campaign said Mr. Bush was misrepresenting Mr. Kerry's positions and the vigor of his approach to fighting terrorism. Both Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, shot back at the Republicans.
 ''I guarantee you I will leave no stone unturned to protect this country I love,'' Mr. Kerry said in Milwaukee, while Mr. Edwards said of the Republican ticket, ''They have stooped so low now that they are using a pack of wolves running around a forest to trying to scare you.'' 
 Mr. Bush's critique of Mr. Kerry's approach to national security was part of a broader effort by the White House to lay out a series of stark contrasts between the candidates on both foreign and domestic policy in the final 11 days of a presidential race that is still too close to call.
 In his speech in Pennsylvania, Mr. Bush honed his message to what he called ''choices on issues of great consequence,'' defining them as security, economic well-being, health and education, retirement and social values. On each of them, he said, he would steer the nation in a better and very different direction than Mr. Kerry would.
 Using terms intended to be directly relevant to individuals and families, he suggested that in addition to keeping Americans safer, he would help their household budgets by keeping taxes low, improve the quality of their lives through better schools and better access to affordable health care, overhaul Social Security and uphold conservative positions on cultural issues like marriage and abortion.
 ''When it comes to your budget, you have a clear choice,'' Mr. Bush said. ''My opponent has earned -- and I mean earned -- his rank as the most liberal member of the United States Senate. He'll raise your taxes to fund bigger government. I'm going to keep your taxes low.''
 Mr. Bush also signed into law on Friday the fifth tax-cut bill of his presidency, a measure that will give tax breaks to many corporations while resolving a trade dispute with Europe.
 In a sharp contrast to his practice with the earlier tax bills, which benefited individuals, Mr. Bush held no public signing ceremony for the new legislation, which will add to the budget deficit and is loaded with special-interest provisions for business.
 By turning to the domestic agenda, Mr. Bush sought to cast himself in positive, forward-looking terms even as he invoked the possibility of more terrorist attacks in his assault on Mr. Kerry's positions.
 ''My opponent has spent a lot of this campaign talking about the day that is gone,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I see the day that's coming.''
 But Mr. Bush's aides said their main thrust between now and Election Day would be to pound home what they said were profound differences between Mr. Kerry's philosophy and record on national security and Mr. Bush's.
 Mr. Bush said Mr. Kerry had a Sept. 10 mindset about dealing with terrorists and would respond to attacks only after they had occurred rather than heading them off. And he said Mr. Kerry was wrong to say that the continued fighting in Iraq was a diversion from the battle against terrorism rather than a central element of it. 
 ''We've got to take threats seriously before they come to hurt us,'' Mr. Bush said in Canton.
 The White House has cited links between Al Qaeda and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian who is believed to be playing a substantial role in attacks against American forces and other foreigners in Iraq, and Mr. Bush, in his appearance in Pennsylvania, mocked Mr. Kerry as not recognizing the threat.
 ''If Zarqawi and his associates were not busy fighting American forces in Iraq, does my opponent think they would be peaceful citizens of the world?'' Mr. Bush asked. ''Does he think they'd be opening a small business somewhere?''
 ''Fighting the likes of Zarqawi in Iraq is not a diversion from the war on terror,'' he added. ''It is the way we will win the war on terror.''
 Mr. Bush's trip to Pennsylvania was his second in two days, underscoring the lengths to which he has gone to try to wrest the state from the Democratic column. 
 But his stop here in Canton was his first in Ohio in 20 days, a lengthy hiatus when it comes to a state that may represent Mr. Kerry's best chance of winning a big prize away from Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush flew from here to a third swing state, Florida, where he attended a fund-raiser Friday night and had a full schedule of campaigning planned for Saturday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush campaigned in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., yesterday, a day that also saw him in Ohio and Florida. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); BUDGETS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); BUDGET CUTS (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Political Advertising; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (87%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi; Richard C Holbrooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



520 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: City Facing Millions in Cuts To Close $3.6 Billion Gap

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the city would cut $300 million from agencies before the end of the fiscal year, and would seek $600 million more next year to close a projected $3.6 billion gap. 
 In a letter to the state's Financial Control Board, Mr. Bloomberg's budget director, Mark Page, laid out how the city would begin to close a yawning fiscal hole that was produced by large increases in costs out of the city's control, like Medicaid and pension payments. Under state law, the city is obligated to give the board periodical updates on its financial condition. 
 At some point before the end of the calendar year, city agencies will receive letters asking them each to cut about 3 percent from their budgets, a City Hall official said yesterday. 
 The Department of Education and the City University of New York will not be included in the cuts, said the mayor's press secretary, Edward Skyler. Mr. Bloomberg has made education his signature policy issue, and will officially begin his re-election effort in January.
 Though the city's finances have improved somewhat because of increased tax revenues -- reducing the projected gap for next year by about 5 percent -- costs continue to rise, Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday on his weekly radio show.
 ''We've been saying all along that while the economy is doing well, the job creation in the city is very encouraging, we have a big problem for fiscal '06,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. He added that the city would face billions of dollars in new expenses over the next few years.
 It is unclear how robust the city's recovery is.
 The Securities Industry Association recently reported that profits of financial firms fell 61 percent, to $3 billion, for the quarter that ended in June. 
 The association said that while it expected lower profits after an exceptionally strong first quarter, the decline was steeper than expected. 
 In January, Mr. Bloomberg will present his initial budget to the City Council, and the annual budget dance between the legislative and executive branches will ensue.
 The city will seek significant help from the state and federal governments -- roughly $1 billion according to documents released by the city yesterday -- as well as reductions in health care and pension costs, and the millions of dollars in cuts to city agencies.
 ''Of course the speaker is going to make sure we have a balanced budget,'' said Steven Sigmund, the spokesman for the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller.
 ''But the mayor should make cuts to the bureaucracy before any cuts to services critical to New Yorkers' quality of life.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); MEDICAID (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); JOB CREATION (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



521 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

PERSON: Mikhail S. Gorbachev

HEADLINE: Once Red, 'Mr. Green' Is a Hero Anywhere but at Home

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
THE stocky moon-faced figure with the signature port-wine birthmark on his forehead settled into the armchair of his Manhattan hotel room, extended his hand and barked a hearty welcome.
 ''Call me Mikhail,'' he said.
 Without prompting, Mikhail S. Gorbachev told how he learned that friendly greeting from his sworn ideological rival, Ronald Reagan, in a moment of tension-thawing familiarity two decades ago -- a moment that probably helped transform the world.
 ''I remember the episode when we were sitting down together, President Reagan and me, and he said: 'I think the time has come for us to be on a first-name basis. Call me Ron.''' 
 The anecdote recalled a time when Mr. Gorbachev, the general secretary of the Communist Party and first executive president of the Soviet Union, commanded the world's attention for introducing glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) to the Soviet Union.
 Historians who credit Mr. Reagan with bringing about the bloodless defeat of the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war usually note the essential partnership role played by the liberalizing Mr. Gorbachev. His burly presence is consequently one that prompts fond memories in the West, and as he moved about the streets of New York and the lobbies and corridors of the Plaza Athenee Hotel earlier this month, he stirred Hollywood-style commotions. Chesty men with earpieces cleared his path while onlookers reacted with delight and surprise, elbowing companions to point him out.
 With a smile continually playing across his lips, Mr. Gorbachev is quick to make topical jokes. ''That's a pre-emptive strike,'' he commented with glee when an American tried to interrupt him.
 IF he appears to embrace this adulation with particular appreciation, it may be because the bear-hug response is so different from the one he gets at home in Moscow. There, though a Nobel Peace Prize winner, he is still a public pariah, widely blamed for ushering in reforms that led to a decade of political and economic instability. In a disastrous run for the presidency in 1996, he attracted less than 1 percent of the vote.
 His English-speaking aides and security people refer to him for ease and anonymity as Mr. Green, a telling code name because Mr. Gorbachev has decided to devote what he calls his post-presidential years to campaigning for the protection of the environment.
 After attending Mr. Reagan's funeral in June, Mr. Gorbachev was back in the United States this month to promote Green Cross International, the Geneva-based organization he founded after the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, and its American affiliate, Global Green USA.
 The groups' focus is on safely eliminating unconventional weapons, stemming climate change, reducing the use of nonrenewable resources and preventing conflicts over fresh water.
 Asked why he had chosen the environment as his late-life mission, he harked back to his farm background and early acquaintance with nature, as well as his experience witnessing reckless land use by the mining industry during his years as a provincial governor in Stavropol.
 ''Then when I became a member of the Soviet leadership,'' he said, ''many of our achievements for me lost their luster because I learned the environmental price we had paid for them. 
 ''We had built many hydroelectric power stations and they produced a lot of energy, but they were a blow to our land and they created reservoirs that flooded vast territories of arable land and villages. We saw the steeples of the former churches sticking out above the water, and they looked to me like funeral crosses.'' Now that Russia has moved toward ratifying the Kyoto treaty on climate change, Mr. Gorbachev faults the Bush administration for not doing the same. ''It is very bad, very sad whenever the United States doesn't take an active stand,'' he said.
 He also criticizes President Bush on Iraq. ''The crisis in Iraq has been a lesson, and I believe that lesson has been learned by both the United States and all of us,'' he said. ''That lesson is that unilateral action is really not the way to go, is really not the way forward.''
 He is respectfully critical of President Vladimir V. Putin, saying the world should support his campaign against terrorism but proposing a compromise solution to the problem of Chechnya. ''Continual instability in the Caucasus will affect everybody,'' he said.
 Mr. Gorbachev, who as Soviet leader ended a decade-long war in Afghanistan by pulling out his army, said Mr. Putin should seek to end the separatist insurgency in Chechnya by granting the largely Muslim region autonomy. ''My formula for a solution is: Chechnya is part of Russia, all of Russia should help Chechnya rebuild, and Chechnya should have a special status within Russia,'' he said.
 NOW 73, Mr. Gorbachev still speaks with the brusque jollity that first gained him the confidence of Western leaders like Mr. Reagan and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who, after meeting him in London, told the American president, ''I think this is a man we can do business with.''
 He punctuates his animated speech with outstretched arms and hands that are constantly in motion, while the interpreter at his side lays a succinct English soundtrack on top of his robustly enunciated Russian.
 His reminiscences often begin with the phrase ''Raisa and I,'' a reference to his wife, Raisa Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight during his leadership. She died of leukemia in a German hospital in 1999, at 67, and Mr. Gorbachev won back some sympathy from his fellow Russians for the faithful vigil he maintained by her bedside and the visible emotion he showed at her death.
 He vents his anger at how he ended up snubbed in his own country by attributing the public disenchantment to the performance of Boris N. Yeltsin, who succeeded him in office in 1991. ''Boris Yeltsin spent 10 years trying to stomp out everything that Gorbachev had done,'' he said. ''Whatever some people say or write, whatever they're trying to attribute to Gorbachev, I think I am paying for the mistakes of others.''
 ''It was an assault, an attack on everything,'' he said of Mr. Yeltsin's approach. ''Everything was destroyed. All they had in the end was a lot of broken furniture, and many people believe that perestroika was to blame, but those two things should not be linked. That it happened after perestroika does not mean that it happened because of perestroika. What happened after perestroika is for others to take the blame.''
 If he is resentful that he enjoys far more popularity outside of Russia than inside the country, he is resolute in not showing it.
 ''Whatever some people say or write, whatever they're trying to attribute to Gorbachev, that never shook my conviction,'' he said. ''I'm convinced that a place in history will be available for me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: MIKHAIL S. GORBACHEV (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); COLD WAR (73%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); HISTORY (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LOBBYING (58%) Environment; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Biographical Information; Public Opinion

COMPANY: GREEN CROSS INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

RONALD REAGAN (90%) Warren Hoge; Mikhail S Gorbachev; Boris N Yeltsin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%) Russia; Russia

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



522 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Vows Fight for Equal Pay for Women and a $7 Wage

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: RENO, Nev., Oct. 22 

 BODY:
Hoping that women's economic anxieties trump their fears of terrorism, Senator John Kerry promised on Friday to fight for equal pay and a minimum-wage increase, more money for education and health coverage for all children.
 ''Today, for far too many women, the American dream seems a million miles away,'' Mr. Kerry said, attacking President Bush as out of touch with what really worries women in the workplace and at home.
 Most polls show Mr. Kerry has regained a lead over Mr. Bush among women since their debates, but the senator still lags behind where Al Gore stood with women in 2000, and aides say the campaign is taking nothing for granted. They are seeking mobilize members of a core constituency that did not turn out in the numbers Democrats had hoped four years ago. 
 ''Imagine,'' he said, ''if the roughly 38 million women who didn't vote in 2000 came together and said, 'We need a president who's on our side.'''
 Mr. Kerry's speech in Milwaukee, which hit themes he will repeat in his radio address on Saturday, was made as Mr. Bush's campaign began broadcasting a new television commercial that tugs at fears of terrorism by depicting a pack of wolves lurking in a forest as a metaphor for a gathering threat. 
 The main argument of Mr. Bush's campaign, particularly to women, has been that he will protect the country from terrorists and that Mr. Kerry will not.
 Mr. Kerry's aides say that security is a threshold issue for women but that Mr. Kerry has already crossed it in the public mind and that domestic issues like employment, health care, Social Security and education will be the ones on which women make their decisions in the polling booths.
 Indeed, Mr. Kerry gave a nod to fears of terrorism at the outset of his lengthy speech, saying he would ''hunt down, capture or kill the terrorists,'' but quickly added, ''A president has to be able to do more than one thing at the same time.''
 He played to an entirely different set of concerns as he addressed women who, he said, are ''working two jobs, three jobs, just to get by -- and that's only counting the jobs they're paid for.'' 
 ''You worry when you hear a child, a son or daughter, cough in the middle of the night,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''You worry when they go out in the morning just to play, because you can't afford an illness. You can't afford an accident.'' 
 ''You and your husband worry at the kitchen table after the kids have gone to bed, and when the month's paychecks don't cover all the bills,'' he added, citing record levels of household debt and personal bankruptcy. 
 In recent polling, women are dividing their votes much as they did in 2000, when 54 percent of women voted for Mr. Gore and 43 percent for Mr. Bush. In a New York Times/CBS News poll taken last weekend after the third debate, 50 percent of women said they would vote for Mr. Kerry and 41 percent said they would vote for Mr. Bush.
 In the fourth of five policy speeches this week that promised a ''fresh start for America,'' Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had ''turned back the clock on equal pay'' and was standing in the way of raising the minimum wage and other measures that he said would help millions of women who work outside the home. 
 He sharply criticized an administration economist who had called the pay gap ''phony'' and ''fiction.'' Mr. Kerry said that women earned 76 cents on the dollar compared with men and that Mr. Bush had cut or weakened federal programs intended to eliminate that disparity.
 ''At their jobs and at home, no one in this White House understands the challenges that they face,'' Mr. Kerry said in Milwaukee with more than 100 Wisconsin women arrayed behind him. ''No matter how tough it gets, no one in the White House seems to be listening.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Bush's campaign, Steve Schmidt, accused Mr. Kerry of hypocrisy for having supported higher taxes on gasoline, Social Security benefits and children and married couples, though he ''talks about making life better for women.'' 
 ''All the campaign camouflage in the world can't obscure Kerry's record of being wrong for American women and their families,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 Mr. Kerry spoke on women's issues in Wisconsin, where the polls show the race has tightened considerably, before heading to Nevada and Pueblo, Colo. Nevada and Colorado are two states leaning for Mr. Bush but where Mr. Kerry is making a concerted push. 
 With Caroline Kennedy at his side, Mr. Kerry said he would raise the minimum wage, from $5.15 to $7 an hour, helping nine million women.
 ''President Bush talks a lot about an ownership society,'' he said, but on health care, education and the economy, ''when it comes to hard-working women, his answer is 'Sorry, you're on your own.'''
 He said Mr. Bush had shortchanged his own public education bills and had ''raided the Social Security trust fund to pay for tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans.'' 
 Mr. Kerry said, ''The Scripture says very clearly, 'Honor thy father and mother,''' and promised never to cut Social Security benefits or raise the retirement age. 
 In Reno, Mr. Kerry came out strongly against storing nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain in southern Nevada. ''You can sum it up in four words,'' he said. ''Not on my watch.''
 He also denied what he said were accusations by the Bush campaign that he planned to raise by 8 percent the mining royalty on federal lands. Most of Nevada is federal land. 
 ''That's wrong, not true,'' he said, with Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, nodding approvingly behind him.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Caroline Kennedy with Senator John Kerry yesterday at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EQUAL PAY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); WOMEN (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Women; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN MILWAUKEE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%); RENO, NV, USA (59%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



523 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Sets 3 Conditions For Returning to Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
With Secretary of State Colin L. Powell arriving here on Saturday for a four-day tour of Japan, China and South Korea, North Korea on Friday set out three conditions to be met before it would return to the regional talks on its nuclear weapons program.
 The United States must drop its hostile policy, join an economic aid program for the North and agree to discuss ''South Korea's nuclear problem,'' a North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman told the official KCNA news agency.
 After three inconclusive rounds of talks, North Korea boycotted the latest one, in September, citing among other reasons news of several nuclear weapons technology experiments conducted in South Korea. Those experiments are being investigated by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations group that North Korea expelled in January 2003, inciting the current international standoff. Since then, North Korea is believed to have processed enough nuclear material to increase its nuclear bomb arsenal to eight from the two it was once thought to have. 
 Although North Korean diplomats have made it clear to visitors that they are waiting for the outcome of the American presidential election on Nov. 2 to decide their strategy, the Bush administration is keeping pressure on North Korea.
 On Monday, President Bush signed into law the North Korean Human Rights Act, which bans any American economic aid to North Korea unless North Korea can prove it has made progress on human rights. 
 Under the new law, Washington can spend at least $20 million a year until 2008 for aid to North Korean citizens and refugees, and the president can provide grants to private groups to support programs promoting human rights, democracy and the development of a market economy in North Korea. It also paves the way for North Koreans to seek refugee status in the United States and provides $4 million for expanding Korean-language radio broadcasts into the North to promote democracy and human rights.
 On Friday, an official in South Korea's Unification Ministry accused the North of selling international food aid on its domestic market, Reuters reported. The official made the claim at a meeting of the World Food Program. Officials with the program, however, denied that aid it had provided was being sold. The South Korean government has said before that it plans to extend its monitoring of food distribution to the North.
 North Korea's state news media also criticized Friday a Washington-led naval drill scheduled to take place on Tuesday in Tokyo Bay. Under the Proliferation Security Initiative, 10 naval and coast guard vessels from the United States, France, Australia and Japan will simulate a drill where Tokyo customs officials X-ray a shipping container and find a ''chemical weapon.'' Designed to curb the trade in materials for unconventional weapons, the initiative has won the formal adherence of 10 other nations and has conducted 10 such drills over the past year.
 But in a move that has not escaped the notice of North Korea, this will be the first drill in Northeast Asia and will feature John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for nonproliferation affairs, who has been outspoken in criticizing North Korea, riding in a Japanese Coast Guard patrol boat.
 While Mr. Bolton is here, Mr. Powell will be in Beijing and Seoul, seeking to stiffen the resolve of North Korea's neighbors to put more diplomatic pressure on the North to find a formula for its nuclear disarmament.
 Complementing the high-level American diplomatic pressure on North Korea, Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage was here last week, meeting with Japan's new foreign minister, Nobutaka Machimura. At a news conference after the meeting, he warned North Korea about further delays on serious talks. ''The U.S. Congress is entirely behind the efforts of President Bush,'' he said, ''so if the North Koreans feel they need to wait, then they'll wait. But it's a miscalculation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); REFUGEES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); TRENDS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); BOYCOTTS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); MARINE VESSELS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Foreign Aid ; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) James Brooke; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



524 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Is Missing in Mayor's Stadium Fight

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Last March, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg stood together and proudly announced an agreement with the Jets to build a $1.4 billion football stadium on the far West Side of Manhattan.
 The deal immediately drew fire from neighborhood groups, other elected officials and, most loudly, the owners of Madison Square Garden, who were upset to hear of a competing sports facility rising nearby.
 But both the mayor and the governor vowed to fight to the end to get the stadium built, demonstrating a kinship of economic and political interests rarely shared by Albany and City Hall.
 But just seven months later, Mr. Bloomberg has largely been standing alone. 
 While officials from both City Hall and Albany say that aides to both of the Republican leaders have made substantial progress pushing the deal forward over the last two weeks, the public face of the stadium battle belongs to the mayor.
 It is Mr. Bloomberg who makes the weekly case for the stadium, both to the public and to officials in Albany, who are needed to see the stadium through, while Mr. Pataki has remained largely silent.
 And it is Mr. Bloomberg who is taking the heat from stadium opponents around the state. In the most visible example, a television advertisement paid for by Madison Square Garden produced by a longtime political strategist for Mr. Pataki essentially calls Mr. Bloomberg a liar.
 ''This stadium is really seen as so the mayor's thing,'' said Christine Quinn, a councilwoman from Manhattan who has led the fight against the stadium. Ms. Quinn is a member of a group called New Yorkers for Better Choices, which has held several news conferences questioning the mayor's plan to use $300 million in city funds for the stadium.
 In attacking the stadium, the group never mentions the governor's name, even though the state has committed the same amount of money. 
 ''The general feeling is that the mayor talked the governor into this one,'' Ms. Quinn said.
 The Madison Square Garden ad so infuriated the mayor and his aides that Mr. Bloomberg has called the Garden owners, the Dolan family, liars, ''selfish'' and a ''disgrace,'' and both City Hall and Jets officials have grumbled that Mr. Pataki could have put a stop to it. 
 When asked yesterday about the fact that the ads were produced by Arthur Finkelstein, who is one of Mr. Pataki's political allies, Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, would not comment.
 Even some of Mr. Pataki's allies were surprised by his lack of visibility on the stadium issue, seeing it as a reversal of the tacit agreements the two men made long ago: Mr. Pataki would take the lead and credit for rebuilding Lower Manhattan, while Mr. Bloomberg would pin his legacy to development of the far West Side.
 In recent weeks, the mayor and the governor's staff have begun to huddle to try to get the stadium deal completed. ''We support the mayor, and we want this stadium to get done,'' said Lisa Stoll, Mr. Pataki's spokeswoman. Ms. Stoll said that Mr. Pataki's support for the stadium has never wavered.
 ''We want the mayor to get the credit for championing this stadium,'' she said. ''But we are his partner in this. The governor has been fighting for this stadium, and he would like to do whatever he can to be helpful.''
 But one pro-stadium lobbyist who spoke on the condition of anonymity said another round of meetings was not enough.
 ''A deal of this magnitude can't be worked out by underlings,'' he said. ''There's not a lot of command focus because the governor is focused on Lower Manhattan.''
 But a senior aide to the governor said Mr. Pataki's inner circle met on Thursday and expects to present the stadium plan to the Empire State Development Corporation Board for approval within ''the next couple of weeks.'' That would be an important step for the stadium, but a number of hurdles remain.
 Mr. Bloomberg tends to focus on single issues and talk about them over and over until he gets his way, and he has made the Jets stadium his choice cause of 2004.
 Since March, he has held several news conferences in which he mentioned the stadium's potential role in a 2012 Olympics in the city. He has told anyone who would listen that New York's bid for the Olympics is doomed without prompt approval of the stadium.
 Mr. Bloomberg recently attended a rally with trade unions that support the stadium plan, but Mr. Pataki has attended no rallies or news conferences about the stadium since March. The governor's aides noted that he was not invited to the recent union rally.
 Further, the Jets have complained to Bloomberg and Pataki officials that the governor has not pushed Peter S. Kalikow, the man Mr. Pataki appointed to head the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, to compromise on his demand that the Jets or the city pay him full value for the development rights over the West Side railyards, at a cost of up to $700 million. The city and the Jets had hoped to resolve the issue with the M.T.A. months ago.
 Officials at the M.T.A., who are seeking billions of dollars from the state for capital improvements while warning of another fare increase, do not want to face legislators who might complain of a sweetheart deal for the stadium property.
 ''We can't give away assets for less than full value,'' Mr. Kalikow said. ''The governor has done what he's going to do. I don't know if there's a larger role for him than keeping me at the negotiating table.''
 Then there is the fact that the aggressive advertising campaign financed by Madison Square Garden is the brainchild of some of Mr. Pataki's closest allies.
 Former Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, Mr. Pataki's mentor in politics, is a lobbyist for Cablevision, the parent company of Madison Square Garden, and he successfully urged the company to hire Mr. Finkelstein, the man behind Mr. Pataki's political campaigns, to create the high-octane advertisements attacking the stadium.
 To supplement its lobbying efforts against the stadium, Cablevision has deployed Kenneth Bruno, the son of Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican leader of the State Senate, and Patricia Lynch, a former top aide to Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver.
 The Jets have hired their own lobbyists and consultants with ties to the governor, including Lou Tomson, a former top aide to Mr. Pataki, Michael McKeon, the governor's former spokesman, and Jeffrey T. Buley, counsel to the Bush re-election campaign and general counsel to the New York Republican State Committee.
 ''The political class surrounding Pataki has never been troubled by politics or loyalty,'' said Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat. ''His most powerful friends end up on both sides of the same issue.''
 Albany politicians and lobbyists say it has often been difficult to discern Mr. Pataki's real position on some hot-button issues, and the stadium is no exception. 
 All agree he has been conspicuously absent from the public debate over the project. But one stadium opponent with close ties to Albany suggested that the governor has kept a low profile because he does not want to take any heat for supporting the stadium.
 And a high-ranking Senate staffer said the Pataki administration has been pushing the stadium behind the scenes. ''In my opinion,'' he said, ''they clearly want to see it happen.
 The curious relationship between the governor and the mayor is playing out over legislation authorizing the expansion of the Javits Convention Center on the far West Side. The Pataki administration has long sought to expand the Javits center, while a stadium over the adjacent rail yard has always been a mayoral priority. Legislation to expand the Javits Center has been bogged down in Albany since it was introduced in June.
 Legislative operatives, hotel industry executives and New York business people who favor the expansion of the Javits center say that neither the governor nor the mayor is working on a solution that could win approval by the Legislature.
 ''There's no effort from the city to move this bill, or from the governor's office,'' said one Javits executive. ''This is paralysis. I don't know what they're doing.''
 After talking recently with Mayor Bloomberg, one Manhattan business leader concluded: ''He was very concerned that Javits not go forward without the stadium. He was concerned that if they pass the Javits legislation without committing to the stadium, they would lose whatever momentum they have for the stadium.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); SPORTS (56%); SPORTS & RECREATION (56%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Madison Square Garden; Football

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Dolan Family

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; West Side (Nyc); New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



525 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Momentum Builds for U.S. Role In Paying Highest Health Costs

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry is pushing the concept, and so are some Senate Republicans. That is why lawmakers and lobbyists say that regardless of who wins the presidential election, Congress will soon take up the idea of fighting high health insurance costs by shielding employers from the most expensive medical cases. 
 In seeking to rein in the costs of the runaway insurance premiums paid by employers and their workers -- nearly $520 billion this year and rising -- politicians of both parties and some business groups are pushing an idea known as reinsurance. Such an approach might take its place alongside existing federal reinsurance programs, like the ones for floods and other natural disasters, or for the damages that might result from acts of terrorism.
 Although Mr. Kerry's proposal calls for a much larger government role than a plan recently floated by the Senate Republican leader, Bill Frist, the goals are similar: to reduce the financial burden on employers when their workers' medical bills rise above a certain threshold. 
 Otherwise, proponents say, more companies will join the trend of cutting back or eliminating employee health benefits. Of the 45 million people without health insurance in this country, nearly 70 percent are working full time or are the dependents of those workers.
 The United States Chamber of Commerce, which represents many small businesses and has long called for government action on health care costs, describes reinsurance as ''a worthy concept, an excellent use of federal dollars.'' 
 Where the politicians differ is in the details -- and the cost to the government. Under the Kerry proposal, the government would cover 75 percent of a worker's medical expenses beyond a cost threshold that is estimated to be $30,000 in 2006 and $50,000 by 2013. A Democratic health care economist has estimated the government's first-year outlay for such a plan at nearly $35 billion. 
 Senator Kerry says his proposal would reduce health insurance premiums by about 10 percent, and industry analysts say that estimate is plausible. Supporters of the approach note that in states like New York that have already adopted their own versions of such plans for low-income people, premiums have indeed fallen.
 ''Senator Kerry views this as good health care policy and good economic policy,'' said Sarah A. Bianchi, the policy director for the Kerry campaign. ''Many businesses are not expanding because of the soaring costs of health care.'' 
 The plan would be paid for, she said, by ''rolling back the Bush tax cuts for people who make more than $200,000 a year.'' 
 The Bush campaign has attacked the Kerry proposal, which the Bush-Cheney Web site says ''would merely shift existing costs from premium-payers to taxpayers -- some $290 billion over nine years.'' 
 Bush campaign officials said they had no comment on the Frist proposal. That plan envisions a federally chartered but privately run reinsurance organization, analogous to the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae mortgage companies that were established to assume the risk of lending so that bankers can give homeowners more affordable mortgages. 
 Dr. Frist has referred to it as a ''national publicly chartered, privately run 'Healthy Mae.'''
 The proposal is in such early form that cost estimates are not available. But it assumes a large role for the insurance industry, which already offers reinsurance policies without government backing.
 ''This would help insurers more broadly share risk, reduce administrative costs and create a vibrant secondary market for health insurance, just as we have done for home mortgages,'' Dr. Frist said. 
 Frank B. McArdle, a health policy expert at the benefits consulting firm Hewitt Associates, notes that a form of government reinsurance was already approved in last year's Medicare law. Once prescription drug coverage becomes part of Medicare in 2006, he said, the government will essentially be subsidizing a portion of the risk of high prescription drug costs for employers who continue to provide retiree drug coverage. 
 Jeff Lemieux, an economist and health policy analyst for the insurance industry, said the Kerry and Frist proposals had similar goals. ''In essence,'' he said, ''Frist's Healthy Mae proposal is a public-private version of Senator Kerry's direct-subsidy idea. But Healthy Mae would probably be less expensive than Kerry's direct subsidy proposal, and it would be less likely to lead toward government regulation of health benefits.''
 Small businesses have been pressing Congress for help for years. Because they have less negotiating power with insurers, they face the steepest increases in premiums and they may be dropped entirely by their insurance carriers after one or more workers incur high medical costs. 
 Even without big expenses, an insurer may raise premiums sharply after several years ''to drive policyholders away,'' rather than risk a spike in future costs, said Ronald E. Bachman, an actuary who is a principal with the benefits and accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 Kate Sullivan Hare, director of health care policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, which often supports the Bush administration's health care positions, said, ''If the government helps pay for the costliest cases, that would help keep coverage available and affordable to small businesses and individuals.''
 Ms. Sullivan Hare said that while the idea of federal reinsurance had merit, the government's role under Mr. Kerry's plan would be too large. ''It would be better for the government to act as a backstop to insurance companies or to reinsurance carriers,'' she said, ''rather than providing a direct subsidy to employers.'' 
 The health insurance industry is also studying the reinsurance proposals along with various government options like tax credits and other subsidies. ''People are starting to think about these concepts,'' said Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group in Washington. 
 Kenneth E. Thorpe, a Democratic health care economist who served in the Clinton administration, estimates that government payments to employers for high-cost medical claims under the Kerry plan would be $34.8 billion the first year. Not all of that would be net savings for the employers; to qualify for the aid they would be required to cover all their employees, which would cost an additional $8.2 billion. That would make the net savings to the nations' employers about $26.6 billion, Mr. Thorpe said. 
 Megan E. Hauck, deputy policy director of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, said that if the government shared the cost of the most expensive cases, it would inevitably scrutinize and try to regulate the care it is paying for. 
 ''If the federal government helps pay for costs above a certain threshold, it will look at every claim above that level,'' Ms. Hauck said. She predicted that the government would then demand answers to many questions: ''What counts toward the threshold? How did you meet the threshold? Why does your surgery cost more in one area of the country than in another?''
 Ms. Bianchi, the policy director for the Kerry campaign, rejected the criticism. ''This is a voluntary approach,'' she said. ''The government would not dictate the kind of coverage that private insurers provide. It would not get involved in deciding benefits.''
 In this respect, she said, the Kerry proposal is similar to the new Medicare law that Mr. Bush supported. Under that law, the government offers subsidies to employers to help defray the cost of drug benefits, but does not dictate details of the benefit.
 Cecil D. Bykerk, former executive vice president and chief actuary of the Mutual of Omaha Companies, said that reinsurance was primarily ''a way for insurance companies to immunize themselves against really large claims.'' In the private market, he said, if an employer wants to buy coverage with a lifetime limit of $5 million a person, but an insurer wants to take the risk for only the first $2 million, the insurer might look for a reinsurance carrier to cover costs from $2 million to $5 million.
 Mr. Bykerk said it was plausible that Mr. Kerry's proposal could reduce premiums for employers and health plans by 10 percent. ''It would help,'' Mr. Bykerk said. ''It would offset one year's increase in premiums. But it does not ultimately control or solve the real underlying problem, the growth in the cost of health care.''
 Other analysts, however, are more sanguine about the potential benefits of a reinsurance plan.
 Linda J. Blumberg, a researcher at the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research center in Washington, said that if the government took responsibility for costs over $50,000 a year, it could stabilize insurance markets and help reduce premiums for individuals and small businesses without a significant increase in government spending. 
 The concept already has a track record in New York and several other states, including Arizona, New Mexico and Connecticut, which have small-scale reinsurance programs to help reduce premiums for individuals and small businesses. 
 The largest program, Healthy New York, reinsures 71,000 low-income individuals, sole-proprietor businesses and small firms in which at least 30 percent of workers have annual incomes below $32,000. All health maintenance organizations in the state are required to enroll all applicants at community rates. The program, which covers half the costs of expensive cases, is paid with money the state receives from the tobacco industry settlement. 
 Since the program went into effect in 2001, premiums for individuals are now 50 to 70 percent lower than in the commercial market, and 15 to 30 percent lower for small groups. 
 The Healthy New York program demonstrates that this type of reinsurance program can be effective in helping to control premiums for vulnerable groups of people, said Dr. Michael A. Stocker, president and chief executive of WellChoice, which owns Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield in New York. 
 Mr. McArdle, the health policy expert at Hewitt Associates, said the concept was gaining momentum. ''Regardless of who wins the presidency,'' he said, ''there will be serious discussion of some kind of reinsurance in the new Congress.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Costly Care''An annual survey of businesses indicates the cost of health insurance has risen much faster than prices in general.Graph tracks the change in health insurance premiums (OVERALL INFLATION, PREMIUMS) since 1999.(Source by Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and Educational Trust)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); NEW ISSUES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Election Issues; Law and Legislation; States (US) ; Medicine and Health; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) Milt Freudenheim; Robert Pear; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill (Sen) Frist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



526 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: In His Own Words

 BODY:

SENATOR JOHN KERRY
Remarks in Milwaukee yesterday:
 ''Today, whether you're a health care clerk or an aide, or a sales person at a store, or a computer technician, or even a top executive, guess what? The pay gap between men and women is with you every single day in America. American women continue to make an average of just 76 cents for every dollar earned by men for comparable jobs. That's wrong, and we need to change it.
 George Bush's chief economist at the Labor Department has claimed that the pay gap is, quote, phony, and it's a fiction. Now, I tell you, that's outrageous to have people at the Labor Department who fight against reality, try to change reality and stand in the way of what is the promise of America, which is real equality for all of our citizens, real equality for women in the United States. That's the unfinished march of civil rights in this country, and when I'm president, I'm not going to stand for people standing in the way of that full equality. 
 Women across America are living with skyrocketing health care costs, and they worry every day about millions of children in the richest country on the face of the planet, that are still uninsured. Poorer nations than us do a better job than us of making sure that their children have what they need to take care of themselves. How dare George W. Bush fight for a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans at the expense of America's children.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CHILDREN (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Women; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Discrimination

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) Milwaukee (Wis); Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



527 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Lower House Approves Kyoto Treaty on Emissions

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
Russia's lower house of Parliament voted overwhelmingly on Friday to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, setting the stage for enactment early next year of the pioneering international treaty aimed at reducing emissions blamed for global warming.
 The Parliament's vote was widely expected after President Vladimir V. Putin's government endorsed the long-delayed treaty late last month, ending years of internal debate over its potential effects on Russia and its economy. Nevertheless, environmental groups hailed Russia's latest step as a landmark in environmental diplomacy. 
 ''The vote really does change the geopolitical landscape,'' Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense, said in a telephone interview, expressing hope that it would accelerate efforts by treaty nations to begin reducing emissions.
 Russia's upper house and Mr. Putin still must approve the treaty to make Russia's ratification final, but that is considered a formality at this point. Once the process here is completed and Russia delivers its signed papers to the United Nations, the treaty's provisions aimed at accounting for emissions of gases and reducing their levels are to go into effect within 90 days. 
 After the United States, Australia and others rejected the treaty, Russia's ratification became essential. Although 126 nations have already ratified the treaty, it can take effect only if supported by enough nations to represent at least 55 percent of industrialized countries' emissions in 1990. Russia was the only country left that produced enough to clear the threshold.
 In 1990, Russia accounted for 17.4 percent of emissions; the United States accounted for 36.1 percent.
 Leading environmentalists in the United States applauded the Russian decision and used the opportunity to criticize the Bush administration for its refusal to sign the treaty.
 ''The Russian government's decision to adopt the Kyoto Protocol leaves the United States alone as the largest and most important industrialized nation to not adopt the treaty,'' said Jeff Fiedler, a policy specialist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''Russian ratification means a new market and a new economy has been given the green light, but the U.S. is not following the signal.''
 Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, said: ''Because of the president's rejection of the agreement, U.S. businesses won't be at the table having input into the details of the emissions reduction system -- and there are billions of dollars at stake here. Regardless of who wins the presidential election, there is going to be enormous new pressure for the U.S. to go back to the negotiating table.''
 Former Vice President Al Gore, who wrote a book on global warming, called the Russian action ''an important and historic victory for sanity, science and reason.''
 He predicted that it would ''unleash a chain reaction of adaptation'' that would eventually include the United States, adding: ''The world faces a climate crisis that will soon be apparent to every person on earth. There is literally no time to lose in taking steps to avoid the worst.''
 The lower house, or Duma, voted 334 to 73 in favor of the protocol after only an afternoon of debate. Although some officials in Russia have vigorously criticized the treaty's limitations, deputies cited the potential boon for Russia from one of its crucial provisions: the trading system that would allow countries that produce excess gases to buy credits from those beneath their quotas or to earn credits by investing in emission-reducing projects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); EMISSIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (59%) Weather; Global Warming; Treaties; Weather

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); AL GORE (58%) Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) Russia; Australia

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



528 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE RUNNING MATES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: 2 'Country' Candidates, But With Different Styles

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Oct. 22 

 BODY:
A John Edwards rally is like a revival, the preacher angry at President Bush and demanding that the throng cast him out.
 ''Do you want politics of fear?'' he cries out, microphone in hand and pumping his fist.
 ''No!'' the crowd roars back over and over as Mr. Edwards marches down a list of Mr. Bush's wrongs. 
 At Vice President Dick Cheney's appearances, there is no fist pumping, no roaming the stage. Whether the vice president is at a lectern, always reading his speech despite weeks of delivering the same one, or at town-hall-style forums, he speaks in a calm voice even as he discusses the possibility of terrorists' exploding a nuclear device ''in the middle of one of our cities.''
 ''The biggest threat facing us now is the possibility of terrorists coming into the U.S. equipped with deadlier weapons, that terrorists would be able to get their hands on a chemical or biological or even nuclear weapon,'' Mr. Cheney said on Friday at a forum here. ''That's the ultimate threat we have to face up to. Given that, it has been necessary to develop new strategies to deal with that.'' 
 If their sole joint appearance, the televised debate on Oct. 5, did not clearly delineate the differences between the two men, time on the campaign trail with each makes the contrast even starker. 
 In these closing days of the race, the campaigns have deployed the running mates according to their strengths. Mr. Edwards is playing up domestic themes, capitalizing on his charm with a flurry of national and local television interviews and, like Senator John Kerry, venturing into undecided or even Republican turf.
 Mr. Cheney is doing far less television and radio and hitting mostly solidly Republican areas with a red-meat message of a tough, take-no-prisoners America that energizes the ticket's base and still manages to make more headlines than Mr. Edwards. 
 Mr. Cheney embraces the traditional role of the No.2 on the ticket as attack dog, drawing controversy, and cheers from many supporters, for suggesting that electing Mr. Kerry might invite another terrorist attack. He does not deliver that line anymore. 
 Mr. Edwards has come late to the vitriol, though he has been sharpening his language. He still oozes sunshine at his events, grinning, laughing and promising ''I believe in you'' but also declaring ''George Bush is out of touch,'' accusing the president of ''incompetence'' and wondering aloud ''what planet are these guys on?''
 For all their differences, the two running mates do have their similarities. They appear at a mix of rallies, roundtable discussions and town-hall-style meetings. 
 Mr. Edwards favors arenas and gymnasiums. Mr. Cheney more often chooses smaller places to evoke a more intimate atmosphere. 
 Each delivers the standard remarks with stunning precision, event after event. No joke is too old; few asides are unpracticed.
 Each makes reference to small-town beginnings. Mr. Edwards reminds audiences that he grew up in a mill town, the son of a mill worker. Mr. Cheney's wife, Lynne, always describes his youth working on power lines, loading 100-pound sacks of bentonite on railroad cars and sweeping the general store in Casper, Wyo.
 They even deliver similar, countrified lines.
 ''As we like to say in Wyoming, you can put all the lipstick you want on a pig, but it'll still be a pig,'' Mr. Cheney says of Mr. Kerry's record.
 Mr. Edwards says of the economy: ''George Bush is going to do everything he can to put lipstick on this pig. But no matter how much lipstick you put on it, it's still a pig.''
 But their campaigning styles over all could not be more different. 
 Mr. Edwards is the sermonizer, delivering his speech -- on the ''mess'' Mr. Bush has made of Iraq, the economy and health care -- without notes, mike in hand, gesturing as his voice rises and falls. His speeches are filled with lines to engage the crowd like, ''You know what I'm talking about, right?''
 Mr. Cheney stirs his faithful more with words than style, informing his people that ''President Bush understands the war on terror and has a strategy for winning it. Senator Kerry does not.'' 
 While Mr. Edwards makes an effort to rile and engage his crowd, with Mr. Cheney it is not always clear who is energizing whom.
 ''The vice president has been resting on Air Force Two,'' an announcer intoned at a midafternoon event on Thursday in Ashwaubenon, Wis., before Mr. Cheney arrived. ''We have got to give him the energy to finish out these last few days.'' 
 Mr. Edwards has attained a movie-star status among Democrats. People in his crowds are as likely to comment on his looks as his stands on an issue. Adoring ''I 3/5sheart 4/5 you John'' signs -- and some a little blunter about the bearer's desire -- are common.
 ''How are you?'' Mr. Edwards asked, clasping the hand of a woman in a diner in Iowa.
 ''I'm fine now,'' she replied, staring into his eyes.
 For Mr. Cheney's followers, the infatuation seems more intellectual or ideological. 
 ''You've been a personal hero of mine from 1991, when I heard you speak on national defense,'' a dreamy-eyed woman in Carroll, Ohio, told Mr. Cheney. ''I love President Bush. He makes such great decisions, and the first great one he made was asking you to be vice president.''
 Mr. Cheney's skills on a rope line are workmanlike, getting through it in four minutes in Ashwaubenon, but still leaving well-wishers spellbound at having shaken the hand of a vice president.
 While shaking hands with supporters outside a Bible college in Ohio, Mr. Cheney looked to an aide and whispered, ''How we doing on time?'' Told that time was up, he turned and stepped on his bus and bade his crowd a quick farewell.
 This is where Mrs. Cheney comes in. Warm and bubbly, she sometimes banters with Mr. Cheney during his chats with voters -- ''That long ago, huh?'' she chimed in when he explained to a supporter how cheap his college tuition was -- and makes up for some of Mr. Cheney's reticence.
 Greeting campaign workers in Charleston, W.Va., Mr. Cheney at first stood a bit off to the side before Mrs. Cheney burst into the room and dived right in, shaking hands and prompting Mr. Cheney to do the same.
 Mr. Edwards works his line for sometimes 10 minutes or more, although campaign aides press him to speed up. He climbs up the steel barricades and leans over to slap as many hands as he can. He picks up babies. He might allow a kiss. He will pose patiently for snapshots and pause for a quick word and laugh.
 Told that a large group of people could not fit in the stifling Maple Grove, Minn., high school gym where he was speaking, he headed out the door after his speech, to the spillover crowd, delivered more remarks and shook more hands. He was tieless, drenched in sweat and still grinning by the end.
 It doesn't seem to faze him that he runs sometimes an hour behind schedule -- he did wonder aloud if his tardiness contributed to a woman fainting at a rally in Newark last month -- and it often takes him several minutes and several asides to get to the point when answering a question.
 But he still leaves his audience pumped up and the campaign is seeking to take advantage of his energy and enthusiasm. He has stepped up his appearances on national television and radio, including appearances on all the major Sunday programs a few weekends ago. This week, he let Ted Koppel trail him for a behind-the-scenes feature on ''Nightline'' on ABC-TV.
 And after almost every event, Mr. Edwards does five-minute interviews with local television stations, which often receive extensive play on the news.
 Mr. Cheney's television appearances have been much more limited, though he did have an interview this week with Sean Hannity of Fox News Channel. But his events, like those of Mr. Edwards, are a big draw in the small and medium-size markets where the two running mates conduct much of their campaigning.
 There is probably one point the two agree on. Each sees his campaign as a ''cause'' and lets the crowds know it at the end.
 Mr. Cheney: ''We're proud to have you on the team. And together, on Nov. 2, we'll see our cause forward to victory.''
 Mr. Edwards: ''God bless you. Join me in this cause.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Edwards, known for his preacherlike delivery, at a rally on Thursday in Iowa City. (Photo by Robert F. Bukaty/Associated Press)
 Vice President Dick Cheney, at a rally yesterday in Rosemount, Minn., has a more dispassionate approach. (Photo by Ann Heisenfelt/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); DOGS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Television; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Randal C Archibold; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



529 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ECONOMY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: A Mother Offers Herself As Exhibit A on Hard Times

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, Wis., Oct. 22 

 BODY:
She is popping up in nearly every one of John Kerry's speeches now: Lori Sheldon, the Pennsylvania mother who tearfully told Mr. Kerry last month that she was ''tired of saying no'' to two daughters. 
 ''People ask me for my autograph,'' Ms. Sheldon said in an interview as she helped her 11-year-old, Katie, with her math homework. 
 On Saturday, Mr. Kerry will tell her story again in his radio address to the nation. What he does not know, Ms. Sheldon said, is that her tale of economic hardship has taken a turn for the worse. 
 Ms. Sheldon took her husband, John, a ground crewman at the Pittsburgh airport, and their two daughters to a Kerry front-porch event on Labor Day near their home in Canonsburg, Pa. When she heard him describe the effects on families of lost jobs and rising costs, Ms. Sheldon rose from her seat.
 ''You just told our story,'' she said, pointing to her 11- and 16-year-old girls. ''I'm tired of saying no to them. We say no all the time.''
 Her poignant testimony instantly won Ms. Sheldon an exalted place in the pantheon of down-on-their-luck folks Mr. Kerry uses -- at times without their knowledge -- to give his speeches a human face, and to paint a picture of an America where jobs are drying up, the sick and frail cannot afford treatment and drugs, and a tank of gasoline is so expensive that relatives are visiting each other less often.
 At the Labor Day event, Ms. Sheldon, 45, said she feared that her husband would lose his job at US Airways because of the demise of the airline's Pittsburgh hub. Two weeks later, she said, he got his pink slip. His last day will be Nov. 7. 
 Mr. Sheldon, 44, had worked for the airline for 21 years. ''I said to him the other day, 'What do you want to be when you grow up?''' his wife said. ''I told the kids, Don't worry, Dad's not going to let us starve.''
 That kind of attitude, though, can give way to more unpleasant feelings, she said. Ms. Sheldon works at a small business and counted on her husband's job to provide the benefits. She said she had recently asked her boss for health insurance, which no employee now gets. ''I feel like I'm begging for something,'' she said. 
 Ms. Sheldon has laid down the law about Christmas already -- no presents for adults -- but, she said, she is still having to say no to her girls. ''This is Halloween, and they like to go to haunted houses,'' she said, but each one costs $12 or more. ''They just went this weekend, and were already talking about another one,'' she said. ''I'm like, 'You had your thrill. Once was enough.'''
 But what she has learned from her ''15 minutes,'' she said, is that she is not alone -- and so Ms. Sheldon does not object when she learns that Mr. Kerry has used her name yet again.
 ''I'm not embarrassed, I'm frustrated,'' she said. ''It's a bad situation, don't you think?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (88%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US LABOR DAY (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (67%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); HALLOWEEN (60%); CHRISTMAS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Biographical Information; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; Lori Sheldon; John Sheldon

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (73%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004



530 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Seana Anderson, Kit Kaplan

 BODY:
Seana Eileen Anderson, a fund-raising consultant, and Kit Kaplan, a photographer, celebrated their partnership in Brooklyn yesterday. The Rev. G. Joel Fotinos, a minister of the Sacred Center for Spiritual Living, led a commitment ceremony at the Brooklyn Lyceum, a cafe and theater. 
 Ms. Anderson, 56, raises money for nonprofit organizations, and is studying to become a nondenominational minister at the One Spirit Interfaith Seminary in Manhattan. She graduated from Barnard. She is a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Paul S. Anderson of Melrose, Mass. Her father retired as a senior research economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Ms. Anderson's two marriages ended in divorce.
 Ms. Kaplan, 48, is represented by the Daphne Gallery in Brooklyn, where her work is currently on display. She is also a freelance Web site designer. Ms. Kaplan, who legally changed her name in 2001, is a daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles Fredy, who owned La Normandie, a French restaurant that was in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Ms. Kaplan's marriage ended in divorce. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); RELIGION (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (87%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); FLORIDA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



531 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: The Health of Nations

BYLINE: By Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele. 
Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele are editors at large at Time and the authors, most recently, of ''Critical Condition: How Health Care in America Became Big Business -- And Bad Medicine.''

 BODY:
For years the people in Washington have offered one plan after another that they said would provide health care for all Americans and rein in costs. Each plan has failed. Today more people than ever have inadequate coverage or no insurance at all. And still costs continue to spin out of control.
 Notably absent from the rhetoric has been any mention of the existing system's inherent flaw -- the inability of market-based, for-profit medicine to deliver on the political promises. 
 Two decades ago, when Washington embraced the for-profit model to curb escalating charges, health care spending represented 10.5 percent of gross domestic product. Now it is approaching 16 percent. We spend more per capita on health care than any other developed country. Yet on the important yardsticks, like life expectancy measured in healthy years, we don't even rank among the top 20 nations. In fact, according to the World Health Organization, we come in an embarrassing 29th, sandwiched between Slovenia and Portugal. 
 The explanation for this abysmal record is one that politicians decline to discuss. The market functions wonderfully when we want to sell more cereals, cosmetics, cars, computers or any other consumer product. Unfortunately, it doesn't work in health care, where the goal should hardly be selling more heart bypass operations. Instead, the goal should be to prevent disease and illness. But the money is in the treatment -- not prevention -- so the market and good health care are at odds. Just how much at odds is seen in the current shortage of flu vaccine, as men and women in their 80's and 90's line up for hours at a time, hoping to get the shot they have been told they need, but may not receive because not nearly enough has been manufactured.
 The reason for the shortage is this: Preventing a flu epidemic that could kill thousands is not nearly as profitable as making pills for something like erectile dysfunction, a decidedly non-fatal condition. Viagra, for example, brings in more than $1 billion a year for its maker, Pfizer. The profits to be made from selling flu vaccine are measly in comparison. If selling flu vaccine were as lucrative as marketing Viagra, sports broadcasts and the nightly news would be flooded with commercials warning that ''winter is almost here; ask your doctor about flu vaccine'' -- and it would be available to anyone who wanted it. Instead, while many of those at risk of the flu go without the vaccine, primetime programs are sponsored by the makers of Viagra (''Get back to mischief''), Cialis (''Will you be ready?'') and Levitra (''Stay in the game'').
 To understand what has gone wrong in health care, one need only look at the booming market for prescription drugs. Once upon a time, drugs were a needs-based product. You received a prescription when you were truly ill. Now many drugs are demand-driven, just like Froot Loops and Lucky Charms. Instead of using the cartoon characters that sell cereals, the drug companies employ celebrities.
 One of the earliest was Lauren Hutton, the supermodel whose enthusiastic endorsement of Wyeth's hormone replacement therapy helped propel prescriptions for all such drugs from 58 million in 1995 to 90 million in 1999. Ms. Hutton made the rounds of the talk shows, telling her ''personal'' story. She said her doctor warned her that if she didn't take estrogen, ''I was up for colon cancer, eye loss, osteoporosis, shrinkage, lots of things.'' 
 More recently, Merck recruited Dorothy Hamill, the Olympic gold medalist, to pitch Vioxx. ''This is my favorite time to skate,'' Ms. Hamill said in a commercial. ''I guess it's from all those years of 5 a.m. practices. But it's also the time when the pain and stiffness of osteoarthritis can be at their worst.''
 As has been the case with so many other drugs, estrogen therapy and Vioxx proved to be a triumph of marketing over science. Not only did the hormone replacement drugs fail to provide the promised protection, studies found they increased the risk for developing cancer and heart disease. Vioxx was withdrawn last month after evidence from clinical trials showed that it increased the risk of heart attacks and strokes. 
 Since 1997, when the Food and Drug Administration loosened restrictions on television commercials for prescription drugs, the marketing departments of pharmaceutical companies have exercised ever-greater influence on which drugs will be brought to market. That's why we have three drugs to treat erectile dysfunction, a condition that once was called ''impotence.'' The name change was essential for the products to be sold by the likes of Bob Dole or Mike Ditka, the former Chicago Bears coach. 
 Aggressive marketing and pricing have made pharmaceutical companies America's most profitable industry. On the whole, Americans pay higher prices for prescription drugs than anyone else in the world because the United States is the only industrialized nation that does not exert influence over prices.
 What's needed to control the costs and to provide basic health and hospitalization coverage for all Americans is an independent agency that would set national health care policy, collect medical fees, pay claims, reimburse doctors fairly and restrain runaway drug prices -- a single-payer system that would eliminate the costly, inefficient bureaucracy generated by thousands of different plans. It's not such a radical idea; a single-payer system already exists for Medicare.
 Such an agency would need to be free of politics and could be modeled on the Federal Reserve System, whose members are appointed to terms that do not coincide with the terms of either the president or the Senate. It could be financed through two taxes, a gross-receipts business tax and a flat tax, similar to Medicare, but on all individual income.
 Under a single-payer system, never again would you be asked, when calling to make a medical appointment, ''What type of insurance do you have?'' Never again would doctors need bloated office staffs to track what is and is not covered under thousands of insurance plans. Never again would you have to worry about being bankrupted by a medical emergency. Never again would American business be saddled with the responsibility for providing health insurance.
 A unified, single-payer system could do more than pay the bills. It could gather information to more accurately identify the surgical procedures and drugs that work, and those that don't. It could funnel research money to where it will do the most good rather than to those areas with the largest and most vocal constituency, thereby treating the victims of various diseases and conditions more equitably.
 It could make possible a centralized computer network to reduce the 100,000 deaths each year from adverse drug reactions -- a number of fatalities five times greater than those caused by street drugs like cocaine and heroin. Similarly, a nationwide network could track medical errors across the country to increase accountability and to identify hospitals or surgeons who make repeated mistakes. And it could guarantee supplies of needed medications. In short, over time such a system could transform the practice of medicine and give all Americans the first-class health care they deserve -- without breaking the bank.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lloyd Miller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VACCINES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INFLUENZA (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DRUG SHORTAGES (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); EPIDEMICS (72%); COSMETICS (71%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (65%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (53%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Doctors; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Bureaucratic Red Tape

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Donald L Barlett; James B Steele

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SLOVENIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



532 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: In a Divided Town, a Question of Hate, or Cash?

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, N.J., Oct. 18 

 BODY:
Oscar Romero-Figueroa's right arm now hangs limp with paralysis -- a constant reminder of the attackers who beat him with a baseball bat in June, a few feet from the apartment he shares with six relatives in North Plainfield. 
 Victor DeLeon suffered head wounds and a broken arm, which kept him out of work for a month, after he was beaten that same month in neighboring Plainfield while walking home from a local bar. 
 And Samuel Aguillar Jimenez was killed. His body was discovered in a Plainfield cemetery on May 17 with a fatal gash to the head. 
 They are among at least 17 Hispanic men who the local police suspect were severely beaten by young black men -- and in the one case, killed -- in and around Plainfield during the spring and summer. Whether the attacks were motivated by racial or ethnic hatred remains an open question, though black leaders say they do not believe bias has been the root. Only one suspect has been charged with a bias crime, and there is no consensus among the police about whether the men were attacked because of their ethnicity or the cash in their pockets. 
 But the string of attacks, first brought to public attention in June by a Hispanic advocate, have put a spotlight on longstanding tensions between blacks and Hispanics in the area. In local bars where Hispanic immigrants gather, they complain that blacks are jealous of their economic success and are out to get them. In the African-American community, there is grumbling that Hispanics are ''taking over'' -- that they speak only Spanish and that Hispanic businesses rarely hire blacks. 
 ''The attacks showed the separation between the two communities,'' said Ray Blanco, a Cuban immigrant who arrived 26 years ago and is expected to be elected as Plainfield's first Hispanic councilman in November. ''Hispanics were in one corner and the rest were in another.''
 Plainfield, a city of about 50,000 people at the western edge of Union County, has faced racial problems before. The city's grand mansions were split into apartments during World War II to house local factory workers, and Southern blacks poured into Plainfield soon after that, competing with whites for housing and jobs. In 1967, several days of race riots broke out after a white police officer refused to intervene in an assault among black youths. White residents began moving out, and before long, Plainfield was an African-American enclave with a downtown of mostly empty storefronts. 
 Hispanics started trickling in during the 1960's, when a handful of Cuban immigrants arrived. The flow was small but steady until about 10 years ago, when a wave of immigrants, mostly from Colombia and Central America, began to arrive to work in factories like the one operated by Berkeley Contract Packaging, which boxes cosmetics and pharmaceuticals at a plant in nearby Kenilworth. 
 Between 1990 and 2000, the Hispanic population rose by 72 percent to about 12,000, according to the United States Census. By 2000, blacks numbered about 29,500; whites, about 10,000. And that count probably understates the actual growth in the Hispanic population because illegal immigrants are often undercounted, and the immigration seems to have continued. 
 ''It's really been in the last five years that we've seen this 400 percent explosion in Plainfield,'' said Dr. Gerald Lamont Thomas, pastor of Shiloh Baptist, a local black church, of what he sees as the growth in the Hispanic population. 
 Most of the time everyone gets along, he said. But when local Hispanics began opening businesses selling phone cards, ethnic food or other items that seemed to cater only to Latinos, the city's African-Americans took notice. Malcolm Dunn, a black member of the City Council, raised the point at a 1998 Council meeting, and again in 2002. ''I endured all-white stores,'' he said at the 2002 meeting. ''Now I'm dealing with all-Hispanic stores.'' 
 In an interview this week, Mr. Dunn said his comments were meant to inspire black entrepreneurship, not to denigrate Hispanics. 
 Others in the black community have voiced similar sentiments about the burgeoning Hispanic presence. 
 ''A lot of these young guys say that the Hispanics are taking over,'' said Colleen Fields, 50, a black activist who works closely with the homeless community. 
 ''They work, they have money and they spend their money with their own,'' Dr. Thomas said. ''If you live in America, you don't live in your own sect anymore. But they do; they stay together.''
 As a result, he said, many blacks feel slighted. ''We see them and we don't know much about them,'' he said. ''There's a sense of being threatened by their presence. And any time there's the sense of a threat, bad things happen.''
 Dr. Thomas and other prominent black leaders say the attacks were not an outgrowth of that tension. ''The people who did the attacks were psychos,'' said Plainfield's mayor, Albert T. McWilliams, who is black. ''They were not representative.'' 
 The police chief of Plainfield, Edward Santiago, said that he thought the attacks were caused by greed, not racial hatred. ''If these immigrants walking the street were destitute without money, they would not have been assaulted,'' he said. ''I don't think the primary factor was, 'I hate Spanish people.'''
 But Michael Parenti, the chief of the North Plainfield Police Department in neighboring Somerset County, said that the violence immediately struck him as too extreme for a mugging. ''To hit someone with a baseball bat, you have to hate someone,'' Chief Parenti said. ''To beat a guy for a few dollars never made a lot of sense to me. It looked to me like a bias incident.'' 
 The two departments formed a task force in June to investigate the attacks. So far, there have been six arrests. The Plainfield police arrested two people in separate attacks; North Plainfield has arrested four, three for one attack and a fourth for another. Only one suspect, Dexter Perreira, 27, of Plainfield, has been charged with bias intimidation, which carries a maximum prison term of 30 years. Mr. Perreira was charged in September with the beating of Mr. Romero-Figueroa, and is being held in bail of $75,000. The others arrested have been charged with assault.
 According to documents filed in the case, race played a significant role. Witnesses linked Mr. Perreira to the ''Bajan Bad Boys,'' a group of young black men who often bragged about attacking ''Ricans.''
 ''It was racism,'' Mr. Romero-Figueroa said of the attack, which has left him able to speak out of only the left side of his mouth. Speaking in Spanish in an interview at his home, he pointed out his living room window to the front yard where the assault occurred. They didn't just want money, he said. ''They beat me and left me to die.'' 
 It was the June 10 beating of Mr. Romero-Figueroa that led Carmen Salavarrieta, a local Hispanic advocate, to call the Spanish-language and local news media. She said she had already heard of several attacks when Mr. Romero-Figueroa's wife called her for help. She said that she felt that the police were not doing enough to protect Hispanics , including letting them know they were being singled out for attacks.
 ''They did not want people to know what was going on,'' she said. 
 Chief Santiago of Plainfield acknowledged in an interview that he tried to keep the cases under wraps. ''We were cautious because we didn't want to let people know that there are all these Hispanic immigrants with lots of cash in their pockets,'' he said. 
 Many victims, Chief Santiago added, also refused to cooperate with the police. It is a problem that is common in communities with large numbers of undocumented immigrants who fear deportation, according to Hester Agudosi, chief of the New Jersey attorney general's Office of Bias Crime and Community Relations. She noted that during an investigation of six attacks in which bricks and rocks were used against Hispanics in Ocean County last year, the police discovered at least eight other incidents that had never been reported. 
 ''It's very disturbing because that's why they are the targets more and more,'' she said. ''The bad guys know they are perfect victims.'' 
 Ms. Salavarrieta said the police have never sufficiently reached out to the community. The Plainfield Police Department has 16 bilingual officers in its 151-member force, and though a service offers translation for 911 callers, there are no Spanish-speaking dispatchers.
 As a result, people like Federico Manzilla Pineda -- a 62-year-old laborer who stands no taller than a jockey -- often end up frustrated. Mr. Pineda said in an interview that he had been attacked three times since arriving in Plainfield: once at gunpoint in July 2001; again in October 2002, when thieves took $2,500 in cash that he was carrying in a plastic bag; and finally, in January 2003. 
 He never filed a complaint, chiefly, he said, because the officers don't comprehend Spanish sufficiently. A Spanish-speaking officer he met through a local nonprofit agency gave him his business card, but he said he has been unable to reach him. ''When I call,'' he said in Spanish, ''they cut me off.''
 This past summer, Ms. Salavarrieta and other Hispanics encouraged the Guardian Angels to open a chapter in the city. Bilingual members of the group now patrol downtown Plainfield three nights a week, helping to bridge the language problem.
 But they may not be enough to solve the problem in a city struggling with poverty and crime, many local residents say.
 Tahean Barron and Robert Phillips, both 29, stood recently near a corner downtown while a Snoop Dogg song pumped from a minivan parked at the curb. They said the victims were just naive, easy targets.
 ''They are drunk, walking by and they say something wrong,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''Or they come to the project to buy drugs and these young cats rob them. You come to any rough neighborhood drinking in that kind of way and it will happen. That'll happen anywhere.'' 
 But at places like the Intercontinental, a three-story nightclub in downtown Plainfield where Hispanic immigrants congregate to play pool, the view is that racism is behind the attacks. Several patrons suggested that blacks were jealous of the new immigrants' economic success, and violent. Sipping a beer at the Intercontinental, Artemio Perez, 34, a factory worker from Plainfield, said that it was common knowledge that walking alone at night is a bad idea. ''They wait for you and as soon as you come around a corner,'' he said, ''they'll jump and hit you.''
 Bishop George Benbow, the black pastor of Christian Fellowship Gospel Church in Plainfield, a racially mixed church with about 600 members, said that many of his Hispanic congregants were afraid to walk the streets at night. ''It really concerns us,'' he said.
 City leaders are working to alleviate such fears and point out that the attacks have subsided. Jiles H. Ship, Plainfield's public safety director, who oversees the Police and Fire Departments, said that he has met regularly with groups like the Latino Action Coalition, which focuses on academic achievement for Hispanics. 
 In response to the violence, he also said, he plans to hire a Spanish-speaking dispatcher, create Hispanic neighborhood watch groups, and distribute Spanish-language pamphlets explaining ''that we're not Immigration; we're here to help.''
 Some are encouraged that the problems have been acknowledged.
 ''This was 20 years in the making,'' Mr. Blanco, the Plainfield Council candidate, said. ''Now we need to do whatever we can to stop anyone else from getting hurt. I think we're on the right track.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Oscar Romero-Figueroa's arm was paralyzed by a beating in June. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Bilingual members of the Guardian Angels on a recent patrol in downtown Plainfield, N.J., where they are trying to bridge the language problem. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 36)Map of New Jersey highlighting Plainfield: At least 17 Hispanic men have been assaulted since March in Plainfield and North Plainfield. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); HOMICIDE (75%); HATE CRIME (74%); RIOTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ETHNICITY (73%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Assaults; Hate Crimes; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Assaults

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN ANGELS (59%)

PERSON: Damien Cave; Edward (Police Chief) Santiago; Oscar Romero-Figueroa

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%) Plainfield (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



533 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Family Ties and the Entanglements of Caste; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Pressure to Live by an Outmoded Tradition Is Still Felt Among Indian Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
As an Indian immigrant, Dr. Bodh Das faced an excruciating challenge. His three daughters had been exposed to America's freewheeling mating rituals, but he wanted to find them husbands the old-fashioned way -- within the Hindu caste into which he was born. 
 With his eldest daughter, Abha -- the one who had spent the least time growing up in America -- he hit the jackpot, getting her to return to India in 1975 to wed a man she had never met but who hailed not only from the same Kayashta subcaste but also from the same obscure offshoot. With his second daughter, Bibha, he was less successful. She married a Kayashta, but from a different branch. 
 ''So there was some transgression in this marriage,'' Dr. Das, a silver-haired cardiologist in the Bronx, said with a wry stoicism worthy of another father who struggled with three modern-minded marriageable daughters, Tevye of ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' 
 Dr. Das's third daughter, Rekha, the most Americanized, strayed even further. She refused to return to India to find her mate and married a man outside her father's caste whom she met in school. It was what Indians call ''a love marriage.'' And Dr. Das's losing battle to uphold tradition is about to suffer yet another setback: a grandson plans to marry a non-Indian Christian from Chicago whom he met at Harvard.
 As Dr. Das's experience shows, the peculiarly Indian system of stratifying its people into hierarchical castes -- with Brahmins at the top and untouchables at the bottom -- has managed to stow away on the journey to the United States, a country that prides itself on its standard of egalitarianism, however flawed the execution. But the caste system, weakening for a half-century in India, is withering here under the relentless forces of assimilation and modernity. While it persists, its vestiges today often seem more a matter of sentiment than cultural imperative. 
 To be sure, not just marital arrangements but business relations are sometimes colored by caste. Arun K. Sinha, a member of the Kurmi caste, is owner of the Foods of India store, a shop on Curry Hill at Lexington Avenue and 28th Street in Manhattan. He complains that wholesalers from a Gujarati caste insist that he pay cash rather than extend the credit they give to merchants from their own clan.
 E. Valentine Daniel, a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, says some Indian executives will not hire untouchables, now usually called Dalits, or downtrodden, no matter their qualifications. ''It's even more than a glass ceiling, it's a tin roof,'' he said.
 Mr. Daniel, former director of Columbia's South Asian Institute, told of the resistance he faced among upper-caste Indians on an academic committee when he wanted to name an endowed chair in Indian political economics after a noted untouchable, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, a Columbia graduate who helped draft the Indian Constitution, which decades ago abolished the caste system. 
 Sometimes, the caste distinctions, recognizable by family names and places of origin, linger as a form of social snobbery. Keerthi Vadlamani, a 23-year-old chemical engineer from an affluent Brahmin family in the south-central Indian city of Hyderabad, said, ''Some people are stupid enough not to mingle with a Dalit, to cold-shoulder them.
 ''You won't invite them home, you won't go over to their home,'' he said.
 Other upper-caste Indians here say that they do not bother to probe someone's caste and that most compatriots will do business with anyone. Few Indians would admit to such behavior as refusing to eat in a restaurant because its food was cooked by an untouchable, something many upper-caste Indians might have done 50 years ago. 
 Mostly caste survives here as a kind of tribal bonding, with Indians finding kindred spirits among people who grew up with the same foods and cultural signals. Just as descendants of the Pilgrims use the Mayflower Society as a social outlet to mingle with people of congenial backgrounds, a few castes have formed societies like the Brahmin Samaj of North America, where meditation and yoga are practiced and caste traditions like vegetarianism and periodic fasting are explained to the young. 
 ''Right now my children are living in a mixed-up society,'' said Pratima Sharma, president of the New Jersey chapter of Brahmin Samaj and a 39-year-old software trainer with two daughters, 9 and 3. ''That's why I went into the Brahmin group, because I wanted to give my children the same values.''
 The exquisitely complex Indian caste system dates back thousands of years to the origins of Hinduism. Hindus tell of a deity who transformed himself into a human society arranged according to a cooperative division of labor. The deity's head turned into the Brahmin caste of priests and scholars, his hands into the Kshatriya caste of warriors and administrators, his thighs into the merchant and landholding Vaishyas, and his feet into Shudras, the skilled workers and peasants. Hindu notions of ritual purity and pollution defined how these four broad castes could interact and reserved an underclass rung for the untouchables, who worked in the most ''polluting'' jobs like cleaning streets or toilets. 
 Whatever its economic and religious foundations, the caste system -- which in time sprouted more than 3,000 jati, or subcastes, tinged by geography, language and employment -- became ironbound. Until recent decades, village untouchables would step out of view whenever a Brahmin walked by, and tea stalls would reserve separate dishware for Dalit. The rigid system confined people in lower castes to poverty, said Dr. Parmatma Saran, a professor of sociology at Baruch College, so that economic class often paralleled caste. 
 After India gained independence from Britain in 1947, the legal forms of caste were abolished, and lower castes began benefiting from favorable quotas for government jobs and college entry. By the mid-1960's, the social aspects of the system were also slackening among urban and educated sectors of Indian society, precisely the groups that furnished most of the doctors, engineers and other professionals who began coming to the United States under preferences in immigration law. 
 Then something surprising happened here. Madhulika S. Khandelwal, director of the Asian American Center at Queens College, said that the continuing influx of immigrants brought in less-educated relatives who tended to sustain caste distinctions, and created masses of caste members who could associate conveniently with one another. In the 2000 census, there were 454,686 Indians in the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut metropolitan area.
 Ads in New York City's Indian newspapers testify to the persistence of caste, with one family advertising for a ''Brahmin bride'' and another seeking an ''alliance for U.S.-educated, professionally accomplished'' Bengali Kayashta daughter.
 ''The underlying hope is that you have a woman or man from the same caste,'' Dr. Khandelwal said of such matchmaking ads. ''That way the marriage supports the family tradition. You are assuring, to the best of your ability, to live through those traditions expressed in food, dress, vocabulary and other things.''
 Still, the exposure of younger Indians to American ways continues to chip away at even these caste traditions. Mr. Vadlamani, the chemical engineer, said members of his Brahmin family ''find it hard to digest that I eat meat, that I date girls not in the same caste.'' His parents, significantly, do not object.
 Ranjana Pathak, a quality-control chemist on Long Island, maintains many Brahmin traditions. Last week, she was eating only fruit to mark an Indian festival. But she has found other traditions hurtful. Though she agreed to an arranged marriage, her in-laws disapproved of her coming from a lower subcaste of Brahmins. 
 ''Until today it has left a bitter taste in my mouth, and those are things you never forget,'' she said. ''That's why I won't do it to my children.''
 There are, of course, young people attached to the old ways. Hariharan Janakiraman, a 31-year-old software engineer who lives in Queens, is a Brahmin from the Vadama branch, which emphasizes teaching. Choosing engineering was his one rebellion. But he intends to let his parents select his wife from his caste.
 His parents, he said, will consult his horoscope and that of the bride and make sure their planets and attendant moods are aligned. They will, he said, ask the prospective bride to prepare some food and sing and dance, the latter to make sure all her limbs work. 
 ''If I marry people from other castes, my uncle and aunt won't have a good impression of my parents, so I won't do that,'' he said. ''If I get married to a Dalit girl, the way she was brought up is different from the way I was brought up, so some incompatibility will result.''
 Dalits say they still on occasion sense upper-caste scorn. Pinder Paul is a spirited 50-year-old Punjabi Sikh (the Sikh faith absorbed some caste distinctions) who came to New York City in 1985 and worked as a dishwasher at Tad's Steaks. Now he and his wife spend seven days a week running the Chirping Chicken outlet he owns in Astoria. He could cite no instance of outright discrimination, but said looks and gestures sometimes betray upper-caste condescension.
 ''Our friends who came here from India from the upper classes, they're supposed to leave this kind of thing behind, but unfortunately they brought it with them,'' he said. 
 Yet in a paradoxical demonstration of the stubborn resilience of caste, Mr. Paul is active with a local Dalit group and said he would prefer that his son marry a Dalit. 
 ''We want to stay in our community,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Das family, clockwise from left: Dr. Bodh Das, his son-in-law Rabindra Mallik, his daughters Rekha and Abha, his wife, Usha, and their grandson, Amit Mallik. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Bimia Paul and her husband, Pinder, at work. Mr. Paul says glances can betray caste condescension. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 33)
 Hariharan Janakiraman, at his home in Queens, says he has agreed to let his parents select a woman of the Brahmin caste to be his wife. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); RELIGION (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WOMEN (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Indian-Americans; Discrimination; Marriages; Hinduism

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (57%) New York City; New York City; India

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



534 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Hispanics Debate Census Plan to Change Racial Grouping

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: SILVER SPRING, Md., Oct. 23 

 BODY:
The music was blaring, the hair dryers humming and the hair stylists laughing in the beauty salon as one of them, Kathia Mendez, loosened her curlers and let her black hair tumble to her shoulders. To many Americans, the vivacious young woman smiling into the gilded mirror might seem easily recognizable as a black woman. 
 But like many Hispanics here, Ms. Mendez views race through a decidedly different lens. In her home country, the Dominican Republic, she is known as ''india,'' or Indian, a term often used for people of mixed race who do not have indigenous roots. If she was asked to describe herself in the United States census, she says, she would choose the racial category selected by nearly 15 million Hispanics in 2000: ''some other race.''
 ''I'm not black and I'm not white; we don't define ourselves that way,'' said Ms. Mendez, a 25-year-old hair stylist who has lived in the United States for nine years. ''So I would choose 'some other race.''' 
 But now census officials are hoping to eliminate the option from the 2010 questionnaire in an effort to encourage Hispanics to choose one or more of five standard racial categories: white, black, Asian, American Indian or Alaska native, or a category that includes natives of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands. 
 Over the last three decades, the number of Hispanics choosing ''some other race'' has surged rapidly, making it the Census Bureau's fastest growing racial category. Census officials say the proposed change, which is expected to remain under consideration until 2006, would improve the accuracy of the nation's racial data because federal agencies typically rely on data from the standard racial groups to make statistical calculations about race. 
 The proposal to eliminate the category, which was used almost exclusively by Hispanics in the 2000 census, has stirred a furious debate among Hispanic advocacy groups, statisticians and officials over how the nation's largest minority group should be defined racially. If approved, it would be the first time since 1940 that officials have eliminated a racial category from the census, Census Bureau officials say.
 Critics say the change would ignore the evolving views of race emerging in communities across the country as immigration from Latin America has surged in recent decades. Nearly 40 million Hispanics -- almost half of them immigrants -- live in the United States and many embrace a kaleidoscope of racial identities that transcends traditional notions of black and white. 
 Many Hispanics refer to themselves as jabao, indio, trigueno or moreno, depending on their skin color and birthplace, while others think that all Hispanics, regardless of color or national origin, should be viewed as a single race. 
 In the 2000 census, 48 percent of Hispanics described themselves as white and 2 percent as black. Six percent identified themselves as belonging to two or more of the standard racial categories. And 42 percent chose ''some other race,'' with the vast majority writing in responses like Hispanic, Latino or geographic backgrounds like Mexican, Puerto Rican or Dominican.
 Carlos Chardon, chairman of the Census Bureau's Hispanic advisory committee and an opponent of the proposed change, said census officials were ignoring America's shifting racial realities by trying to force Latinos to choose from the standard categories. Advocates at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund have also expressed concerns.
 ''We don't fit into the categories that the Anglos want us to fit in,'' Mr. Chardon said. ''The census is trying to create a reality that doesn't exist.''
 Census officials say they will consult with the Office of Management and Budget, Congress and advocacy groups before a final decision is made. But they say change is necessary to improve the accuracy of the data in the bureau's Modified Age/Race and Sex, or MARS, file, which many federal agencies rely on. 
 In the MARS file, census officials assign a race to those who select ''some other race'' to accommodate federal agencies that do not use the ambiguous racial category. The agencies use the MARS estimates to track population and birth and mortality rates, among other things.
 Census demographers look for clues to make such determinations, checking to see whether relatives are listed in standard racial categories and checking neighborhood demographics. Census officials say the process is flawed and needs changing, even though they understand that sociologists and advocacy groups want to continue tracking and studying Hispanics who choose the ''some other race'' category.
 ''The race question and race in the United States is a very emotional issue and people who are interested in it feel very strongly about it,'' said Preston Jay Waite, associate director for the decennial census. 
 ''But if somebody writes down that their race is Latino, that doesn't give us any information about which of the race categories they're in,'' Mr. Waite said. ''We're making up the race for 15 million people. We would prefer not to do it. It doesn't seem wise to me that we would put at risk the racial statistics of the nation in order to answer an interesting sociological question.''
 Some statisticians question the need for change, however, and warn that eliminating the category would create problems in census files used for political redistricting and enforcement of equal opportunity laws. 
 Removing the option would increase the number of Hispanics who would include themselves in traditional racial groups and would probably increase the number of those who would identify themselves as white, officials say. But it would also increase the number who would simply refuse to respond to the race question, according to recent tests conducted by the Census Bureau. 
 Officials have to guess the race of individuals who do not respond, and an increase in those numbers could lead to inaccuracies in data files used to monitor voting rights and civil rights enforcement, said Roderick J. Harrison, a demographer at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group in Washington that studies issues of concern to blacks.
 He said mistakes in categorizing the race of Hispanics who do not respond to the race question could result in inaccurate tallies of blacks, whites or other racial groups, a major worry for those concerned about redistricting and civil rights issues. 
 ''That's a major concern,'' said Mr. Harrison, who headed the racial statistics unit at the Census Bureau from 1990 to 1997.
 In a meeting of members of a steering committee that disseminates census data to minority groups, a discussion earlier this year between Mr. Waite and Mr. Harrison on this subject grew so heated that Mr. Harrison was asked to resign from the committee. Hispanic and Native American advocacy groups expressed concern about the resignation, and Representative William Lacy Clay, Democrat of Missouri, said he believed Mr. Harrison was forced out for challenging the Census Bureau's conclusions, a charge that Mr. Waite denies. 
 The dispute highlights the difficulties the Census Bureau has encountered over the decades as it has struggled to find a racial home for Hispanics.
 In 1930, the census introduced a racial category called Mexican, which was intended to capture the growing number of Hispanics in Southwestern states. But it was dropped in 1940, and by 1960 census officials were instructing its interviewers to record ''Puerto Ricans, Mexicans or other person of Latin American descent as white unless they were definitely of Negro, Indian or other nonwhite race.''
 The ''other race'' category was made up of mixed-race people who claimed some combination of white, black and Native American descent and some people of Asian heritage when it was first included in 1950. By 1980, it was largely Hispanic, reflecting, in part, the increased immigration from Latin America. 
 At Arelis Beauty Salon, Ms. Mendez and her colleagues marveled at the differences between the Dominican and American racial palettes as they styled hair and waxed eyebrows and debated whether the census reflected their racial identities.
 Zunilda Diaz, 48, said she would describe herself as white, though her mother is dark-skinned and would be considered black in the United States. Nelly de la Rosa, who is 33 and has chocolate brown skin, said she would choose ''some other race.'' 
 Without that option, she said, she would be hard pressed to pick a racial category.
 ''We have so much mixture,'' said Ms. de la Rosa, who said she is described as morena or india at home. ''These other census categories just don't reflect who we are.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Question of Race''How Hispanics identified their race in the 2000 census:White: 47.9Some other race: 42.2Two or more races: 6.3%Black: 2%American Indian, Alaskan native: 1.2Asian: 0.3Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander: 0.1(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (97%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (84%); WOMEN (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (68%); REFUGEES (61%); ISLANDS & REEFS (50%) Population; Census; Minorities (US); Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Blacks; Asian-Americans; Indians, American; Population

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



535 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: A New Highway to China's Boom (but Drive Carefully)

BYLINE: By JOSHUA KURLANTZICK

 BODY:
AS the Chinese economy has grown into a colossus over the last decade, many investors in the United States have sought ways to capitalize on China's strength. 
 Unfortunately, this has often proved difficult. Researching Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong or the United States can be tough for individual investors not fluent in Chinese corporate governance. China-centered mutual funds are comparatively few, perhaps because even big financial institutions can face significant costs in researching the relatively opaque Chinese market. 
 Now, though, American investors have a chance to vastly broaden their access to China. In early October, Barclays Global Investors started a fund that tracks the FTSE/Xinhua 25, an index of 25 companies in mainland China that includes many of the country's largest businesses. 
 The Barclays fund is the first exchange-traded fund listed in the United States to focus exclusively on mainland Chinese companies. Called the iShares FTSE/Xinhua China 25, it is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol FXI.
 Exchange-traded funds can be bought and sold continuously, in contrast to mutual funds, which are bought and sold at one price each trading day. As of Aug. 31, statistics from Morgan Stanley show, exchange-traded fund trading volumes worldwide had risen nearly 20 percent in 2004, and about 313 of them were listed on markets in the United States and overseas, up from virtually none a decade ago.
 Barclays, the world's largest provider of exchange-traded funds by assets under management, is on the tip of a trend. State Street Global Advisors, at No.2 on the list, is working with the Shanghai stock exchange to create an E.T.F. that will track 50 top Shanghai stocks. PowerShares Capital Management, an asset management firm based in Wheaton, Ill., is also developing a fund focused on China, said Deborah Fuhr, executive director for E.T.F. research at Morgan Stanley. 
 Specialists in exchange-traded funds expect demand for these issues to be strong. ''If you want to invest in China, even through Hong Kong, it can be difficult for retail investors, but now they can do so easily through an E.T.F. listed on the N.Y.S.E.,'' Ms. Fuhr said. 
 Still, buying a Chinese E.T.F. entails significant risks. For ordinary investors, the new E.T.F. ''should be used sparingly at best,'' said Dan Culloton, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar Inc. who has studied the Barclays offering. 
 The Chinese E.T.F. includes several important caveats, Mr. Culloton said. Systemic political and economic risk, unemployment, labor unrest and problems in the banking sector, for example, make Chinese markets extremely volatile. 
 What's more, he said, the Barclays offering will focus on a small number of stocks for an E.T.F. Among its biggest holdings are China Mobile, the cellphone company; PetroChina, the oil company; and China Telecom and China Life Insurance. 
 ''You're not spreading out that concentration of stocks,'' he said. ''Portfolios that hold large positions in individual stocks tend to be more volatile.'' 
 Mr. Culloton notes that the Barclays fund is also focused on a small number of sectors, like natural resources and telecommunications. That could add to volatility. 
 But for an investor whose holdings are already diversified, a portfolio of Chinese stocks may make sense if it is kept to a small part of total assets. And a Chinese E.T.F. offers some advantages for investors over picking Chinese stocks by themselves, or choosing an actively managed mutual fund with a focus on China. ''You can move in and out of an E.T.F. as you want if you want to overweight China,'' without redemption fees, said Brad Durham, managing director of Emerging Portfolio Fund Research. ''If, oh my God, the Chinese government is rattling their sabers over invading Taiwan, let's get out.''
 Exchange-traded funds, which track indexes, also have lower expenses than China-centered mutual funds run by active managers. Barclays says its fund will have an expense ratio of 0.74 percent; Mr. Culloton noted that expenses averaged 2.2 percent for actively managed funds focusing on Asia, excluding Japan. 
 As a result, Ms. Fuhr said, an E.T.F. may prove valuable to some investors. ''It's for investors more likely to want to make decisions themselves,'' she said. 
 Jim Pacetti, head of ETF International, a consulting firm, added that previous exchange-traded funds focused on Taiwanese and Indian indexes have sold well with individual investors. Lee Kranefuss, chief executive of iShares, the part of Barclays Global responsible for E.T.F.'s, said he expected demand for the Barclays offering to be split roughly equally among retail and institutional investors.
 Mr. Durham said he worried that people who trade E.T.F.'s often would run up hefty trading commission charges -- the shares, like stocks, can be bought through a broker -- that could cancel out the savings from their lower expenses.
 THE short-term risks of investing in China are hard to assess. Although the country still faces serious political risks, it seems to have reduced the chances of an economic hard landing in the near term. Many foreign economists had feared that the country's expansion was too rapid to sustain, but Chinese officials told recent meetings of the International Monetary Fund that inflation had remained below 6 percent and that money supply growth had been curbed.
 Because E.T.F.'s can be sold short, in bets that a market will decline, Mr. Kranefuss said the new investment vehicle could be useful even for investors who believe that the Chinese market will fall. 
 For the most part, though, the appeal is likely to depend on China's long-run prospects. ''When you look at the longer-term future, the growth rates, China is a good broad play,'' Mr. Durham said. ''You can get a lot of short-term factors dead wrong and if you're in the China market for a long time, you'll do well.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: PetroChina, the oil company, is among the biggest holdings of Barclays Global Investors' new exchange-traded fund that concentrates on mainland Chinese companies. (Photo by Kevin Lee/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Tracking China''The FTSE/Xinhua 25 index, which tracks the performance of Chinese companies, is the foundation of a new exchange-traded fund.Graph tracks FTSE/Xinhua 25 index since 1999.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Xinhua Stock Price Index

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (84%); MORNINGSTAR INC (61%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays Global Investors

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); MORN (NASDAQ) (61%); MS (NYSE) (57%); PTR (NYSE) (50%); K3OD (SGX) (50%); 0857 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: Joshua Kurlantzick

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



536 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Modern Comfort Food, The Furniture Version

BYLINE: By R.W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
A NEW show at the Yale University Art Gallery offers a fresh look at domestic life in the Great Depression, when Americans yearned for the comforts of home to offset times that were bad in ways we've long since forgotten. 
 The theory of the show, ''Livable Modernism: Interior Decorating and Design During the Great Depression,'' is that as the economy plummeted in the 1930's, American consumers increasingly longed for the familiar in the objects surrounding them at home. Typical of this aesthetic was the Colonial Revival style, the most popular decorating fashion of the time.
 But designers of the period had different ideas. They were becoming interested in working with materials that characterized the modern age -- like steel and chromium -- and in creating objects inspired by the simplicity and functionalism of such industrial products. 
 The answer, the show suggests, was livable modernism -- objects that combined the old and the new. A 1936 armchair designed by Russel Wright, prominently displayed in the exhibition, is the paradigm of this style, with its spare, lightweight modernist frame that holds deep, comfortable cushions upholstered in a nubbly, homespun-like material.
 As Kristina Wilson, the show's curator, wrote in a book that accompanies and expands on the exhibition, ''Livable modernism is defined not only by its adherence to the belief that a simplified aesthetic could facilitate an enlightened lifestyle, but also by its respect for the physical and psychological comfort of the user.''
 Ms. Wilson, an assistant professor of art history at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., coined the term ''livable modernism'' to describe the new decorating style. But, as she explained in an interview at Yale, the term also refers to the way the designers marketed their work. She said that as a scholar, she was as interested in how the products were marketed as she was in their artistic significance.
 Ms. Wilson said that to an extent not seen earlier, modernist designers allowed their work to be shaped in part by marketplace demands, and also embraced up-to-date mass marketing tools aimed aggressively at the middle class, especially at women. Among these strategies were advertising campaigns in national magazines and radio, and through department stores.
 ''The result of this interaction,'' she wrote, '' is an overlapping of modernity with modernism -- that is, the overlapping of the structures of modern society with the forms created to interpret that society.''
 On display at the exhibition are furniture and household items like glasses, clocks and tableware. The galleries are arranged to look like a house, with a living room, dining room and bedroom. The intention is to evoke daily life in the years before World War II. All the items are from Yale's substantial collection of American modernist designs of the 1930's. 
 The show explains the psychological appeal of the Colonial Revival style, which sprang into vigorous life in the 19th century, jump-started by the Centennial celebrations of 1876. To the American consumer, it offered a comforting vision of an idealized early America.
 One of Colonial Revival's foremost proponents in the 1930's was Wallace Nutting, a minister turned entrepreneur who also collected and dealt in American antiques. ''Whatever is new, is bad,'' said Nutting, who has been called the Martha Stewart of his day.
 Nutting, the subject of an exhibition last year at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford, shrewdly mined the subliminal pull of Colonial Revival, creating a multifaceted business empire based on its evocation of the past. Thomas Denenberg, a furniture historian who was the curator of the Wadsworth's show, called Nutting's enterprise ''a deft combination of myth and materialism'' in a book accompanying that show. 
 Modernist designers -- like Gilbert Rohde, Russel Wright, George Sakier and Lurelle Guild -- co-opted Nuttings's ideas to create the new style of livable modernism. Working with manufacturers like the Herman Miller and Conant Ball furniture companies, Fostoria Glass Company and the Aluminum Company of America, they produced modernist objects for every room in the house. 
 The products were mass produced, sold at affordable prices and distributed through department stores and other mass outlets.
 The 20th-century advertising man David Ogilvy often said, ''The consumer is not a moron; she is your wife.'' The show recognizes how the marketing of these products was pitched to women.
 ''The consumer audience for home furnishings -- both livable modernism and Colonial Revival -- was predominantly female,'' Ms. Wilson wrote. ''In a continuation of the gendered roles of late 19th- and early-20th century families, housewives of the 1930's were usually expected to make the decorating decisions.'' 
 To make their decisions, women counted on magazines like House and Garden, Good Housekeeping and American Home, all of which were filled with ''how to'' articles and crammed with advertisements for household objects, she said. 
 Ms. Wilson described herself as a generalist at heart, interested in the ''whole vast panoply'' of humanity's decorative and fine arts. She has done research on the antique English silver collection at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, and on Marsden Hartley and Alfred Steiglitz. Still, she said, ''puzzling over modernism in America is what gets me up in the morning.''
 ''Livable Modernism: Interior Decorating and Design During the Great Depression'' is at the Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203)432-0600, through June 5.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1933 cocktail set, designed by Howard Reichenbach, is among the modernist objects on display at Yale.
A 1936 chair, designed by Russel Wright, is on view at Yale in the ''Livable Modernism'' show.
 Kristina Wilson, left, curator of ''Livable Modernism,'' and Lesley Tucker of Yale's art gallery, preparing for the show.A 1933 canape plate designed by Lurelle Van Arsdale Guild. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); ART HISTORY (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); HISTORY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (65%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Furniture; Nineteen Hundred Thirties; Advertising and Marketing; Home Furnishings; Interior Design; Great Depression (1930's)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) Yale University Art Gallery

PERSON: R W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (68%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



537 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Powell Rejects North Korean Demand on U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell on Saturday rejected North Korea's latest demand that the United States drop its ''hostile'' policy toward that nation and agree to other steps before the stalled regional talks on its nuclear weapons program resume.
 Mr. Powell, speaking to reporters on his plane before arriving in Tokyo for a three-day visit to Japan, China and South Korea, said that ''to put forward these kinds of conditions, which may lead to yet another set of conditions, is not the way to approach this problem.''
 He added that North Korea should take up any of its concerns at the talks themselves rather than lay out preconditions for the talks. He was responding to a statement from North Korea the day before that three conditions had to be met before it would return to talks on its nuclear program after more than three months of delay. 
 The North Korean demands were laid out by a Foreign Ministry spokesman to the official KCNA news agency. North Korea is believed by Western experts to have amassed enough weapons-grade nuclear fuel for at least two nuclear bombs, and possibly several more, in the past two years.
 On Saturday, North Korea said that if the United States persisted in its approach, it would double the size of its ''deterrent force,'' a commentary by the KCNA news agency said in the official daily Rodong Sinmun, Reuters reported.
 Addressing a separate matter, Mr. Powell said that in response to a recently enacted Congressional resolution on North Korea, the Bush administration would press for human rights concerns there to be discussed ''by the international community'' but that no plans had been set to make that issue a part of the nuclear talks.
 The North Korean Human Rights Act, signed into law earlier in the week, links any economic aid to North Korea with progress on political prisoners, free speech and other human rights, and it says that concerns about human rights must become part of the talks on North Korea's nuclear programs.
 The law has been denounced by North Korea and has met with skepticism in China and South Korea, where some officials say it might complicate the drive to get cooperation from the highly secretive and suspicious government in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
 Mr. Powell said that human rights is ''something we should talk about'' and that he had assured sponsors of the resolution that the United States would do so, but that he and his aides had not yet decided on how best to approach the subject.
 The human rights law also authorizes expenditures for aid for civilians and for North Korean refugees, and to private groups pressing for reform in North Korea. Some Asian experts say such steps could prompt charges of inappropriate interference by North Korea, but there is also a strong constituency in Congress for not overlooking the problem of North Korea's dictatorship in any solution on the nuclear issue.
 Besides the demand that the United States drop its ''hostile'' policy, North Korea said that the United States must agree to discuss South Korea's own nuclear program and that there must be American participation in the aid package put forward by Japan and South Korea as an incentive for the North to abandon its nuclear weapons aspirations.
 North Korea's nuclear program has been the focus of talks involving the United States, China, Japan, South Korea and Russia, but North Korea boycotted a round scheduled for September, citing several reasons, including the disclosure earlier this year of nuclear weapons technology experiments conducted in South Korea several years ago.
 Mr. Powell suggested Saturday that even the subject of the South's nuclear experiments, which he said were minor and being investigated by international inspectors, ''should not be an obstacle'' to talks, and that North Korea was welcome to bring up its concerns in discussions.
 Some Bush administration officials say they believe that North Korea has been stalling its return to the talks until after the outcome of the American presidential election. Mr. Powell said he would not attribute any motives to North Korea, but that, whoever is elected, the framework for dealing with the talks with all six nations would continue. 
 Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, has said he would continue the six-party format but also engage in two-way talks between the United States and North Korea.
 Another recent irritant in American relations with North Korea was dismissed as inconsequential by Mr. Powell: the North Korean government's denunciation of a planned naval drill in the coming week off the coast of Japan, where American, French, Australian and Japanese ships will practice intercepting a ship as if it were carrying chemical weapons.
 Several such drills have been conducted around the world in the last year and a half under a program known as the Proliferation Security Initiative. Mr. Powell said North Korea's concerns were unwarranted. ''It does not threaten North Korea,'' he said. ''It protects the rest of the world.''
 Mr. Powell said that the United States would, meanwhile, continue to supply North Korea with food aid to ease starvation. The State Department has said that 50,000 tons of food was recently authorized.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell arriving yesterday at Haneda Airport in Tokyo for his three-day visit to Japan, China and South Korea. (Photo by Toru Yamanaka/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); LEGISLATION (67%); TERRORISM (66%); REFUGEES (65%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; United States Armament and Defense; Foreign Aid; Terrorism

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%) North Korea; Japan; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



538 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Ideas Coming Of Age

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
YOU cannot, strictly speaking, baptize a technology, for it has no soul. But you could say that something like that rite of passage occurred last Monday, when the United States Patent and Trademark Office announced a new registration category just for nanotechnology inventions. 
 Nanotechnology is the realm of the very, very small: its name comes from the nanometer, a unit of measure so tiny that a human hair is roughly 80,000 nanometers thick. Individual molecules are measured in nanometers; so are viruses, strands of DNA, and the microscopic structures that determine the performance of everyday materials like steel and plastic. 
 The patent office's definition requires that a least one dimension of an invention be less than 100 nanometers, but smallness alone is not enough. The nanoscale element of the product or process must be essential to whatever properties make it novel.
 ''People looking for venture capital money will call anything small 'nanotechnology,''' said Bruce Kisliuk, director of the section of the patent office that handles biotechnology and pharmaceutical applications, who is coordinating the work on nanotechnology issues. 
 The decision to set up Class 977, as the new category will be formally called, is a recognition that a swarm of nanoscale inventions is headed the patent office's way. Some are already on the market, including fibers for clothing and mattresses that are highly stain resistant and water resistant; particles of titanium dioxide that make sunscreen transparent; and nanocrystals of silver for antimicrobial bandages. 
 These products are the vanguard of a technology that is expected to touch every part of the economy, the way computers have. But there is an important difference, according to Lux Research, a technology research company in New York. Information technology was about recording and analyzing the physical world, but nanotechnology is about changing how the physical world behaves. For example, a hospital computer may keep track of when a patient will receive a hip-implant operation, how his blood tests came back and who his insurer is, but a nanoscale coating on the surface of his implant affects how it performs in his body.
 Depending on how you define it, nanotechnology may already be contributing billions of dollars to the economy. The National Science Foundation predicted in 2001 that nanotechnology would contribute $1 trillion by 2015, and some experts, including the people at Lux, think that figure might be low. 
 The nanotechnology surge is confronting the patent office with a familiar problem -- assessing claims of innovation that do not match up neatly with the way patent examiners are trained to categorize them -- but on a whole new scale. The danger is that an examiner trained in, say, chemistry will be running into nanotechnology patent claims that also touch on physics and biology, and may overlook previous inventions or publications in those fields that are relevant to whether a new claim is patentable.
 The patent office began training its examiners in nanotechnology concepts and terminology in November, and has set up a working group of outside lawyers and researchers to give advice. But that has not been enough to head off confusion in a realm where the same invention might be called a carbon nanotube, an elongated cylinder made of carbon or a carbonaceous cylinder in three separate patent applications, according to experts like Stephen B. Maebius, an intellectual property lawyer in Washington and former patent examiner.
 As a result, Mr. Maebius and other lawyers say, a number of overlapping patents have already been issued. The potential for years of legal battles could freeze development in its tracks, according to Matthew Nordan, vice president of research at Lux. 
 ''It's the biggest threat to commercialization,'' Mr. Nordan said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Plastics that flex and contract like muscles when an electrical current is applied are among the new materials being created in nanotechnology labs. (Photo by Elise Amendola/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NANOTECHNOLOGY (93%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); CHEMICALS PATENTS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PATENTS (89%); CHEMISTRY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (77%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (77%); PHYSICS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); DNA (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%) Nanotechnology; Inventions and Patents; Hair

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (91%) Patent and Trademark Office

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



539 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: How Capricious Commodities May Calm a Portfolio

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
A CASE can be made for putting a small part of a portfolio into commodities -- but it has nothing to do with why many investors have been fixated on them lately.
 Crude oil prices have surged to more than $50 a barrel, and the prices of other commodities have climbed. Over the last year, natural resources funds have posted total returns of 41 percent on average, making them the best-performing category of all mutual funds, according to Morningstar Inc. 
 But before joining the bull market in commodities, investors should assess the dangers of jumping onto a moving bandwagon -- especially when its road can be so bumpy. ''Investors have to be extremely careful of the risks involved'' with commodities, said Michael J. Cuggino, manager of the Permanent Portfolio, a fund that invests in gold and silver bullion and commodity-oriented companies, as well as other stocks and bonds. 
 Jose A. Rasco, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, was more emphatic: ''It's way too late to play the commodities game.''
 That may be, but commodities, among the most volatile of all asset classes, can still play a useful, if minor, role in a well diversified portfolio. Held in modest doses over a long period, they can actually help stabilize an investor's holdings. 
 Consider this bit of history: from 1970 to 2003, a portfolio of 45 percent bonds, 25 percent large-capitalization stocks, 15 percent international stocks, 10 percent small-cap stocks and 5 percent cash would have generated a return of 10.4 percent a year, on average. Such a portfolio's standard deviation, a measure of volatility, would have been 9.63 percent, according to Ibbotson Associates, a financial research firm.
 But if you shifted 10 percent of the equity stake into commodities, the portfolio would have had a slightly higher return -- 10.5 percent -- with a standard deviation of only 7.63 percent, meaning lower volatility.
 Commodities are considered a good hedge against inflation, and they do not move in sync with the equity or fixed-income markets, said Peng Chen, Ibbotson's director of research. Over the last 34 years, the correlation between commodities and blue-chip stocks has been a negative 0.03. A reading that close to zero means that movements in equity prices have had virtually no relationship with activity in the commodities market. (The scale runs from 1, for complete correlation, to negative 1, implying an inverse relationship.)
 That is why Geordie Crossan, president of NBS Financial Services, a financial planning firm in Westlake Village, Calif., says commodities can help diversify holdings over the long run, as long as an investor doesn't try to time this market. Mr. Crossan suggests that investors treat commodities like emerging-market stocks or other volatile holdings, by keeping just 5 to 10 percent of their money in them -- at most.
 Not everyone agrees that commodities are useful. John Markese, president of the American Association of Individual Investors, argues that an investment in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index already offers exposure to energy and natural resources companies, which are indirect commodity plays. So it is unnecessary to go any further, he says.
 There is a slight difference between a direct exposure to commodities and owning energy or basic materials stocks. For example, ''if oil breaks from $55 a barrel to $35, and then trades between $35 and $40, a buyer of oil today would not consider that to be a happy outcome,'' said Fred Sturm, manager of the Ivy Global Natural Resources fund. But even at the lower prices, an oil company, and its shares, can be very profitable. 
 Similarly, a rise in commodity prices may not, in the short term, push up the share price of a company that produces the commodity, especially if other business issues are weighing down the stock.
 ''The broader equity market can have a much greater influence on energy equities than the price of the underlying commodity,'' said Kevin Baum, manager of the Oppenheimer Real Asset fund.
 Over the last decade, Morningstar says, the correlation between natural resources funds -- which invest in companies that mine, produce or process raw materials and energy -- and the S.&P. 500 index has been 0.53. That means a moderate degree of correlation between natural resources equities and the broad stock market. 
 Individual investors have a handful of ways to gain more direct exposure to hard assets like gold, copper or oil without the risk of trading individual commodity futures contracts. Those contracts may be bought for as little as a few thousand dollars, but they are highly leveraged, so an investor who bets wrong could easily lose several times that amount.
 Merrill Lynch introduced an exchange-traded futures contract last year that is intended to mirror the Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index, a basket of about 20 commodities as varied as crude oil and soybeans. Called commodity Trakrs, for total return asset contracts, they trade on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and aren't leveraged, eliminating some risks associated with futures. They can be bought for around $30 each and don't require a special futures account. Because these investments are new, though, investors will have to check whether their broker handles them.
 FOR a vast majority of investors, the easiest and safest way to gain direct exposure to commodities is through a mutual fund. A few funds, like Mr. Baum's portfolio, are linked to movements in commodity prices. While the Oppenheimer Real Asset fund tracks the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index, the Pimco Commodity RealReturn Strategy fund tries to mirror the Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index. And a few general equity funds, like Mr. Cuggino's Permanent Portfolio, put part of their holdings into hard assets.
 But commodities are not for everyone. ''As always, if you don't understand it and feel comfortable with it, don't invest in it,'' said Greg Schultz, a principal at Asset Allocation Advisors, a financial planning firm in Walnut Creek, Calif. ''You don't need this type of exposure to invest successfully.''
 At the end of the day, Mr. Schultz says, the point of commodities as small long-term holdings is not to produce extra gains, but to reduce overall risk through diversification so you can sleep better at night. If investments in commodities keep you awake, they're not worth it.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Wilder Ride''Commodities have performed well, but they have also had large price swings.Volatility and performance, 1970-2003Commodities+VOLATILITY*: 24.5%AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 11.9%Small-cap stocksVOLATILITY*: 23.5AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 12.9International stocksVOLATILITY*: 22.8AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 10.8Large-cap stocksVOLATILITY*: 17.9AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 10.9Intermediate-term bondsVOLATILITY*: 6.7AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 8.730-day TreasuriesVOLATILITY*: 2.8AVG. ANNUAL RETURN: 6.3*Measured by standard deviation of short-term price swings relative to long-term average returns.+Goldman Sachs Commodity index(Source by Ibbotson Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%) Futures and Options Trading; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (71%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



540 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Judicial Races in Several States Become Partisan Battlegrounds

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Judicial elections, which used to be staid and decorous affairs, have been transformed this year into loud and vicious fights, fueled by money, venom and television.
 Campaign spending has skyrocketed. In one Illinois race, two vying candidates have raised $5 million. In West Virginia, a group financed by business interests is spending $2.5 million to defeat a sitting State Supreme Court justice. About a third of the total spending nationwide comes from interest groups, much of it from the independent but partisan organizations known as 527's. Their main contributors are business interests and plaintiffs' lawyers, and their agenda is most often the election of judges who could help -- or the defeat of judges who could hinder -- efforts to impose limits on lawsuits seeking damages for injuries. 
 Voters in eight states are seeing television advertisements in judicial races for the first time. And the ads are as pointed as those used in races for legislative and executive positions. One charge, leveled in separate advertisements against sitting judges in two states, is that they released dangerous sexual predators. 
 When judges are not attacking their opponents, they are telling voters their views on the legal and political issues of the day, something they had avoided until a 2002 decision by the United States Supreme Court. Statements by judges on issues they might be called upon to decide were generally thought to violate codes of judicial ethics before that decision.
 All these developments, many lawyers and legal scholars warn, threaten the reputation, independence and integrity of the judiciary in the 38 states that elect at least some of their judges. Even the people involved in some of the nastiest campaigns are critical of their own work, saying it is the upshot of an unfortunate but inevitable political arms race. 
 ''This is the year the dam is bursting,'' said Bert Brandenburg, the acting executive director of Justice at Stake Campaign, a judicial reform organization. 
 About 40 supreme court seats in 20 states are in play. State high courts decide thousands of cases each year, compared with the 80 or so rulings issued annually by the United States Supreme Court. They are the last word on issues of state law, which governs most injury and contract cases. 
 Most state high courts have five or seven judges, as opposed to the nine who sit on the federal Supreme Court, and they are often closely divided, meaning that a shift in a single seat can have enormous significance. 
 The sums of money being spent to capture those seats is growing exponentially.
 In 2000, there were three races for seats on the Illinois Supreme Court, and no one thought to buy a television advertisement. 
 In 2002, there was a single race, and candidates, parties and interest groups spent $320,000 on television ads, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law. This year, there is again a single race. The two candidates and their supporters have, as of Oct. 17, spent more than $2 million on television advertising. 
 In 2002, in every judicial election in the nation combined, ''We didn't even reach $1 million until Oct. 19,'' said Deborah Goldberg, the director of the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center. Through Oct. 17, more than $8 million had been spent this year on television advertising in judicial races, she said.
 The dollars are being devoted to far more sophisticated advertising than just imprinting a name in voters' minds. 
 ''The rhetoric is very pitched,'' said Cindi Canary, the director of the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform, which calls itself a government accountability watchdog group. ''You've got some really top-notch political campaign people involved. It has the tone of a competitive legislative race.''
 One Illinois advertisement opens with a blurry image of children at a playground.
 ''He used candy to lure the children into the house,'' an announcer says, over ominous music. ''Once inside, the three children were sexually molested. A 4-year-old girl, raped.''
 ''Despite prosecutors' objections,'' the announcer continues, ''Judge Lloyd Karmeier gave him probation.''
 Judge Karmeier, a trial court judge from Nashville, Ill., is running for the Illinois Supreme Court. He did, in fact, ultimately sentence a mentally retarded man named Bryan Watters to probation. But that was only after an appeals court reversed the six-year sentence he initially imposed. 
 The appeals court, in a 1992 decision that quoted at length from ''Of Mice and Men,'' suggested that Judge Karmeier's first sentence was too harsh because Mr. Watters had not appreciated what he had done and was unlikely to do it again. The court returned the case to Judge Karmeier, with the suggestion that probation might be appropriate.
 Voters in West Virginia saw a surprisingly similar advertisement recently, suggesting either judicial leniency for child molesters or a message that focus groups find compelling.
 ''He sexually molested multiple West Virginia children,'' the announcer says. ''Liberal Judge Warren McGraw cast the deciding vote to set this reprehensible criminal free.''
 Here, too, the facts are more complicated than the advertisement suggests.
 Justice McGraw, of the West Virginia Supreme Court, did join an unsigned opinion of three justices in February that granted probation to Tony Dean Arbaugh Jr. Mr. Arbaugh, who had himself been sexually abused from the age of 7 by two adult family members and a teacher, at the age of 14 abused a younger half-brother, according to the decision. Mr. Arbaugh received a suspended sentence of 15 to 35 years, served time in a juvenile facility and was released on probation soon after he turned 18. 
 Prosecutors sought to revoke that probation based on Mr. Arbaugh's use of marijuana and alcohol. The three justices in the majority refused. Justice McGraw cast the deciding vote only in the sense that everyone in the 3-to-2 majority did.
 ''Considering Mr. Arbaugh's tender age and extreme victimization,'' they wrote, ''we cannot, we will not, surrender any opportunity to salvage his life and to turn him into a productive member of society.''
 A spokesman for Brent Benjamin, Justice McGraw's opponent, defended the advertisement.
 ''Everything in Brent Benjamin's campaign ad that dealt with the Arbaugh case was taken directly from the court record,'' said the spokesman, Steve Cohen.
 Justice McGraw said the advertisements attacking him have had a profound political and personal impact.
 ''I'm just a West Virginia country lawyer running for office,'' he said. ''They say our court set a child molester loose in our schools. It's absolutely untrue. I'm embarrassed to go out in public. They've absolutely destroyed me.''
 Not all of the advertisements about the Arbaugh case were paid for by the Benjamin campaign. Most came from an organization known as And for the Sake of the Kids. It is devoted solely to defeating Justice McGraw, according to its Web site. 
 The group has raised about $2.5 million, with $1.7 million of it from Don L. Blankenship, the chief executive officer of Massey Energy, a coal mining company. In a statement, Mr. Blankenship said he had donated ''approximately $1 for every West Virginian.''
 ''Without a change in the Supreme Court,'' he said, ''businesses will continue to avoid West Virginia.''
 Mr. Blankenship's goals are economic, but the advertisements speak to parents' fears. This disconnect between intent and the message is not unusual. 
 ''Everybody now understands that you can't talk too much about tort reform,'' said Bryan Stevenson, the executive director of Equal Justice Initiative of Alabama, a nonprofit law firm that represents poor people and prisoners, ''The big business folks will run a candidate, but the candidate talks about how he wants to execute a bunch of folks or how he's for the Ten Commandments.''
 Whoever is paying, the advertisements work, said Ms. Goldberg of the Brennan Center.
 ''There's a very, very strong correlation between the person who has the most campaign spending and the person who wins,'' she said. ''In 2002, in 9 of 11 races with TV advertising, the biggest spenders, including spending by supporters, won.''
 Advertisements disclosing candidates' positions on legal issues are a reaction to the Supreme Court decision of two years ago. That decision has also led to the widespread use of questionnaires in which interest groups ask judicial candidates to say how they would rule on a given issue should they win.
 ''Increasingly, churches and business groups are subjecting candidates to a litmus test,'' Mr. Stevenson said. ''When you have a judicial candidate committing to being for the death penalty and against abortion, it really does undermine the fairness and integrity of the system.''
 One questionnaire, distributed by the North Carolina Family Policy Council, lists 17 questions.
 Several of the eight candidates in the race refused to answer it. But some did. Fred Morrison Jr., for instance, said he opposed a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage, spending state money on abortions, euthanasia and driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.
 Judge James A. Wynn, one of the candidates who refused to answer, criticized these developments.
 ''Issues that are likely to come before the court are not issues that judges should address,'' he said.
 Mr. Brandenburg, of Justice at Stake, said the public suffers from partisan judicial elections.
 ''Legislative and statehouse races are better designed for this rough and tumble,'' he said. ''We don't elect judges to win or lose on certain issues. We elect them to be impartial.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Justice Warren McGraw of the West Virginia Supreme Court campaigning last week. He is the target of attack advertisements. (Photo by F. Brian Ferguson for The New York Times)
 Brent Benjamin is Mr. McGraw's opponent in the West Virginia race. (Photo by Shawn Poynter for The New York Times)(pg. 30)Chart: ''Taking It To the Airwaves''Cumulative spending on televisionadvertising in state supreme court races, in millions.Graph tracks the ad spending in both 2002 and 2004(Source by Brennan Center for Justice)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); JUDGES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ETHICS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); DAMAGES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LEGAL ETHICS (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONTRACTS LAW (66%) Courts; Elections; Judges; Political Advertising; Finances; Election Issues; Courts; Courts

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%); SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF WEST VIRGINIA (59%)

PERSON: Adam Liptak

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Illinois; West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



541 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: For Congress on Long Island

 BODY:
The following are our endorsements in the two most competitive Congressional races in Long Island this year:
 First District (Suffolk County): Representative Timothy H. Bishop, a freshman Democrat, won the seat in this Republican-leaning district two years ago from Felix Grucci Jr., who weakened his own candidacy with a particularly nasty campaign advertisement that generated a lawsuit. Negative ads against Mr. Bishop figure again in this race -- including the scurrilous accusation that he failed to support the troops in Iraq. We believe Mr. Bishop's constituents are smart enough to understand the difference between raising serious questions about foreign policy and not caring about the well being of the men and women who bravely carry it out. 
 The challenger is William Manger, a former financial consultant and Bush administration appointee who is helping to finance his own campaign. His central issue has been pressing for more of the tax breaks that benefit the wealthiest Americans. 
 There is no reason to think he could improve on the job being done by Mr. Bishop, who has worked hard for his district in his two years in Washington, particularly on environmental and economic issues. He voted against the corporate tax bill and elimination of the death tax and now wants to make changes in the alternative minimum tax to benefit the middle class. He has our hearty endorsement.
 Fourth District (Nassau County): If Carolyn McCarthy were only a one-issue representative, it would still be difficult to discount the amazing influence she has had in her four terms in the fight for gun control. But Ms. McCarthy, who became a Democrat and won the Congressional seat after her husband was killed and her son wounded by a gunman on a commuter train, has taken on much more. A novice when she first entered the world of politics, Ms. McCarthy has grown into a strong and forceful representative for the region and an important voice on issues like health care and education.
 In this election, she is facing James A. Garner, the Republican mayor of Hempstead Village. We give a strong endorsement to Ms. McCarthy, who has more than earned the right to keep her seat for another term. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); ESTATE TAX (74%); SHOOTINGS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); TRAINS (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%) Editorials; Endorsements

PERSON: TIMOTHY H BISHOP (92%); CAROLYN MCCARTHY (79%) Timothy (Repr) Bishop; Carolyn (Repr) Mccarthy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



542 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: A Mighty Wind

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS HILL. 
Douglas Hill is a consulting engineer and editor of ''The Baked Apple? Metropolitan New York in the Greenhouse.''

DATELINE: Huntington 

 BODY:
By 2008, there will be about 40 wind turbines in the ocean south of Long Island, generating more than 140 megawatts of electricity in a strong wind -- enough to power 140,000 Long Island homes. But if you go down to the beach to look at them, you will probably be disappointed. If you can see them at all, they will look like matchsticks on the horizon. 
 The Long Island Power Authority, burned by local resistance to its earlier proposal to place three wind turbines at Camp Hero on Montauk Point, has done its best to make these three-bladed turbines invisible by placing them far out at sea. While LIPA is right to be sensitive to popular concerns (not something power authorities are known for), it has gone overboard in planning to place them so far offshore. 
 The power authority has recently chosen FPL Energy of Juno Beach, Fla., to build the offshore wind farm. This followed a two-year study by several consultants to choose the best site, taking into consideration water depth, bird activity, transmission access, but most of all ''visual impacts.'' LIPA has chosen a site more than three miles offshore, midway between Jones Beach and Robert Moses State Park. The turbines will be placed about one-third of a mile to half a mile apart and stand about 425 feet above the water, higher than the Statue of Liberty. According to FPL, the project will cost more than $300 million; the company plans to recover its costs through the wholesale rates it will charge the authority.
 To avoid repeating the Montauk failure, the Long Island Power Authority has done its best to minimize the visual impact of the wind turbines. FPL has supported the authority's decision, arguing that the winds are stronger further offshore. But with only two offshore weather stations, little is known with precision about the pattern of winds south of Long Island.
 While it is more cost effective to build wind farms on shore, it is understandable why LIPA wants to build offshore now. According to its siting assessment, ''The lack of opportunities for land-based wind development due to competing land uses means that offshore areas of Long Island hold the only real promise for adding significant amounts of wind-based electricity generation to the island's energy mix.'' 
 The present plan, however, places the wind turbines too far offshore. Bringing them a little closer to land has many advantages. In shallower water, the towers and the cable that carry the power back to shore would be shorter, which would make the wind farm less expensive to build. (Indeed, FPL Energy has said that the turbines would be twice as expensive to build offshore as on land.)The project would be farther removed from the shipping lanes approaching New York Harbor. Construction noise would be less likely to disturb migrating whales. Commercial fishermen would be happier, since the proposed site is where they often drag their nets.
 Is there a disadvantage? The main objection to placing the wind turbines closer to shore is that people will be able to see them. But this is no reason not to harness the most promising source of renewable energy -- particularly in light of the state's goal of having renewable resources provide 25 percent of the state's power by 2013. This is doubly important on Long Island, where power is in short supply. 
 There seems to be no way to enjoy the benefits of electricity without some adverse effects. Nuclear power produces high-level radioactivity for hundreds of thousands of years. Coal-burning plants bring us acid rain and ozone pollution. Oil-burning plants keep us dependent on the Middle East for oil. Fossil-fueled plants in general, even those burning natural gas, emit carbon dioxide, which worsens global warming. Wind turbines avoid all these problems, but the plain fact remains: you can see them. 
 If Long Island and the rest of the United States are to get serious about reducing fossil-fuel use, we will have to get used to looking at wind turbines -- and not just offshore. Ninety-nine percent of the wind turbines in the world are on land. In Fenner, N.Y., southeast of Syracuse, there is a wind farm that can generate 30 megawatts of electricity. The 20 turbines are spread over nearly two square miles of farmers' fields, but they occupy less than 2 percent of the land. Those turbines generate more than 30 megawatts of energy. 
 For an idea of what Long Island would look like if wind power developed here, consider Europe. For Long Island to generate as much wind power per square mile of land as Spain does now, it would only need one wind farm on land the size of that at Fenner. If we generated as much as Holland, we would have two such wind farms. If as much as Germany, four. And if as much as Denmark, seven. Within the next quarter-century, as wind turbines sprout up across the United States, it will seem quaint that Long Island once tried to place them out of sight. 
 To decide how far the Long Island Power Authority's wind farm should be placed offshore, FPL should provide an economic analysis that also takes into account environmental effects. The turbines should not be placed needlessly in the far distance on the basis of dubious data about offshore winds or concerns about the views by waterfront elites. They should be put where they will be most efficient and less costly.
 And what's wrong with how they look? I think they're elegant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (93%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY SITING (78%); BEACHES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); WEATHER (73%); STATE PARKS (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Turbines; Windmills

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Power Authority

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%)

PERSON: Douglas Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



543 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2831 words

HEADLINE: Nassau Aid Went to Campaign Donors

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT and SHELLY FEUER DOMASH

 BODY:
EVERY company that received material assistance from the Nassau County Industrial Development Agency in 2003 was a contributor to the campaign treasuries of the county executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, or David Mejias, who was the treasurer of the agency before becoming a county legislator last year, a review of official filings shows.
 The records also show that the agency employed a variety of individuals and companies with political connections to Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat who campaigned for the county executive's job in 2001 with a pledge to ''dismantle the culture of machine politics'' that flourished during decades of Republican control and put government on a merit system.
 For most of Mr. Suozzi's first two years in office, the Nassau I.D.A., created in 1975 and empowered to grant low-cost loans and tax breaks as incentives to lure businesses and promote job growth, was under the purview of Peter T. Sylver. Mr. Sylver was Mr. Suozzi's deputy county executive for economic development but resigned last November after being accused of corruption, nepotism and sexual harassment. 
 Last month Mr. Sylver pleaded guilty to charges of official misconduct for billing personal expenses to the county, sexual abuse of an employee in his county car and forcing an assistant into political activity. He paid $5,700 in restitution and was sentenced to three years of probation. In addition the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development is demanding that the county refund nearly $1 million in federal aid that was misspent by other agencies under Mr. Sylver's control. 
 As county executive, Mr. Suozzi appoints the Industrial Development Agency's six-member board, which in turn makes all hires. 
 Under Mr. Suozzi and Mr. Sylver, several prominent Democrats have been either running the agency, working for it or winning benefits from it. They include present or former public officials, party officers and candidates closely tied to Mr. Suozzi's political operations.
 The agency's year-end reports for 2003, the first full year that the Democrats were in control, show that it approved six projects involving for-profit companies. The six projects, with a total estimated value of $177 million, were granted various property tax, sales tax and mortgage tax reductions and approvals for low-cost loans. 
 Collectively, the benefits are worth tens of millions of dollars. The precise amount is undocumented because the biggest factor is the low-interest financing, and there is no way to know the exact savings from what conventional loans might have cost for the various deals.
 All six companies that won benefits from Mr. Suozzi's appointees gave campaign contributions to Mr. Suozzi or Mr. Mejias, either directly or through company officers or allied firms. Those donations amounted to $67,750. 
 In addition, lawyers and other consultants hired by the agency -- under contracts often awarded without competitive bidding -- also contributed to the Democrats, according to official records. Their donations added up to an additional $87,550, for a grand total of $155,000. The contributions were made at various times, before and after Mr. Suozzi's election in 2001.
 Mr. Suozzi, who is fast gaining a reputation as a prodigious fund-raiser for himself and even presidential candidates, was the prime beneficiary of the donations. His campaign fund received $145,600 from the businesses and consultants who dealt with the agency, often in $5,000 and $10,000 chunks. Mr. Mejias, who served as the agency's unpaid treasurer last year, received $9,700 in contributions from agency-related donors for his successful County Legislature campaign.
 Joseph Gioino, executive director of the Industrial Development Agency, denied that politics and donations influence its actions. ''One has nothing to do with the other,'' he said. ''I'm sure these same applicants have given to both sides. Developers are not ideological. They're equal-opportunity givers. I know for a fact some have given to Pataki.''
 Mr. Suozzi does not get involved in agency decisions, Mr. Gioino said. ''Any company that meets the necessary qualification standards receives I.D.A. financing,'' he said. ''Companies do not need a connection, and the more companies the I.D.A. is able to assist, the better for everyone.''
 But Nassau Republican officials accuse the administration of politicizing the agency and milking the program for donations that give at least the appearance of favoritism and conflict of interest.
 The County Legislature's Republican minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt, accused Mr. Suozzi of exploiting the agency to help his ''cronies.'' A Republican spokesman, Edward Ward, called the agency ''completely patronage-ridden'' and said, ''Tom Suozzi has used the I.D.A. to enrich his campaign war chest for future political office.''
 Appointing political allies to public office is an old tradition, and campaign contributions from people doing business with government are also a fixture of local, state and national politics. While such donations do not by themselves violate bribery or extortion laws, critics say that such actions can give the impression that contributors are currying favor or that officials are pressuring them for money or rewarding donors with public benefits.
 ''The issue is conflict of interest,'' said Tara Radin, who teaches business ethics at Hofstra University. ''Whether they want to admit it nor not, that is what is going on.'' 
 A Democratic county legislator, Lisanne G. Altmann, also voiced concern about the image that businesses ''have to pay to play.'' She has been drafting laws to curb such donations.

Tax Breaks Worth Millions
 Like similar local agencies elsewhere, Nassau's Industrial Development Agency uses various financial rewards to entice business to move or expand there. The agency can reduce or waive property taxes, mortgage recording taxes and sales taxes for construction material, furnishings and equipment. Even more important, the agency also authorizes applicants to get loans whose interest is fully or partly tax-exempt, which lowers the effective rate by 1 to 1.5 percentage points, Mr. Gioino said. Those reductions can save millions of dollars over the life of loans that last up to 30 years.
 Over all, the total value of bonds approved under Mr. Suozzi has grown, as measured by the fees that applicants paid -- about 0.6 percent of the value of the bond. Under the administration of his Republican predecessor, Thomas S. Gulotta, the total fees averaged $300,000 a year. In 2002 they reached $537,226, and last year they totaled $1.2 million. 
 Several nonprofit organizations received benefits from the county agency, but they are generally barred, by law or policy, from making political contributions. Six for-profit projects were assisted by the I.D.A. in 2003, and campaign donations to Mr. Suozzi or Mr. Mejias were made in all six cases, either by the companies themselves, their principals or their subsidiaries. They include:
 $(6$)Tweezerman, a Port Washington-based manufacturer of personal grooming tools that got a $4 million bond and $357,752 in tax reductions from the agency to renovate a 90,000-square-foot building for an audio and video product distribution center. The company's founder, Dal LaMagna, ran twice as a Democratic candidate for Congress, unsuccessfully. He said his two campaign donations to Mr. Suozzi, totaling $10,000, were unrelated to the project, which would add 15 jobs and avert a possible move to Houston. ''I have personally been a big supporter of Suozzi from the first day I met him,'' Mr. LaMagna said.
 $(6$)Forest City Daly, a Manhattan real estate development company that was the beneficiary of the agency's biggest bond issue in at a least a dozen years: $65 million for a 165-unit residence for the elderly on seven acres in Roslyn, with construction due to start in 2007. Besides the interest savings on the loan, the tax reduction is $86,081. The firm and its president, Michael D. Daly, gave a total of $13,000 in campaign contributions, $11,000 to Mr. Suozzi and $2,000 to Mr. Mejias. Mr. Daly did not respond to requests for comment.
 $(6$)EBS North Hills, a development company owned by Steve Krieger and Jan Burman. It received a $32 million bond for the construction of an assisted-living center on four acres in North Hills. In addition to the low-cost loan, the upfront tax abatements totaled $660,512. Some phases of the project were approved in 2002 and 2004, as well as 2003. Through their various companies, Mr. Kreiger and Mr. Burman made seven donations to Mr. Suozzi totaling $17,500. Mr. Burman said that they have supported numerous candidates and that ''our request for I.D.A. financing was part of a transparent and open process that violated neither the spirit nor the letter of any law.''
 $(6$)MONY at Lake Success, owned by Frank Lalezarian, which was authorized for a $17.5 million bond to build commercial office space at 1999 Marcus Avenue. Besides the low-cost financing, his initial tax abatements are $572,896. Through his MONY, Old Mill Partners, Oxford Construction and Split Rock Construction companies, Mr. Lalezarian made several donations totaling $22,000 to Mr. Suozzi's campaign. He did not return calls seeking his comment.
 $(6$)Alan Mindel, a developer whose plan for an 84-unit motel on about an acre in Plainview benefited from a $5 million bond issued by the agency. Besides the low-cost financing, the project won $407,207 in tax reductions. Mr. Mindel, who also owns the Inn at Great Neck, donated $5,000 to Mr. Suozzi. He did not return calls seeking comment.
 $(6$)Keyspan, an energy company that was approved for a $53 million bond for three buildings and two gas-fired electrical generators on 2.9 acres in Glenwood Landing. Though the project will not create jobs beyond the installation, Mr. Gioino said that holding electricity costs down with efficient new generators will help businesses throughout the county. Keyspan gave a $250 check to Mr. Mejias's campaign, but he returned it.
 Mr. Suozzi defended the projects, saying that even his critics have not found anything wrong with them. ''They obviously can't comment on the merits of any projects of the I.D.A.,'' he said, ''so they have these bogus claims that are really a stretch,'' about the fund-raising.
 ''No contribution is going to influence the policy of this administration or my actions personally or any of my staff members,'' Mr. Suozzi said. The donations ''were both legal and ethical and not that significant'' considering the $6 million total he has raised, he said. He also said he didn't recognize some of the donors, like Mr. Daly. ''I don't even know who the guy is,'' he said.

Allies at the Agency
 Under Mr. Suozzi, the Industrial Development Agency has been a magnet for prominent Democrats and their businesses. They include:
 $(6$)Lewis Yevoli, the agency's chairman last year. Mr. Yevoli, formerly a Democratic assemblyman, Oyster Bay town supervisor and member of the old County Board of Supervisors, is a longtime political ally of Mr. Suozzi and endorsed Mr. Suozzi's underdog bid for county executive. Mr. Yevoli left the agency to become chairman of the county Planning Commission, a promotion by Mr. Suozzi.
 $(6$)Howard Fensterman, the agency's current chairman and managing partner of the Abrams, Fensterman, Fensterman, Flowers, Greenberg & Eisman law firm in Lake Success. The firm's Web site says that he is Senator Charles Schumer's campaign finance cochairman on Long Island and vice chairman of the Nassau Democrats' screening panel for judicial candidates. ''His involvement in the political process has resulted in Mr. Fensterman's having forged special relationships with several U.S. Senators, congresspersons, state senators and assembly persons,'' the Web site says.
 $(6$)Mr. Gioino, the agency's $98,800-a-year executive director, who simultaneously served as a Democratic city councilman in Glen Cove, where Mr. Suozzi was mayor and remains the paramount leader. Mr. Gioino's bid for re-election last fall ended in a tied vote with a Republican, Grady Farnan. The seat was declared vacant, and both men are running again this year to fill it.
 $(6$)Mr. Mejias, who ran as a Suozzi protege for the County Legislature last year while serving as the agency's unpaid treasurer and as a board member. His victory preserved a 10-9 Democratic majority. Upon joining the Legislature, Mr. Mejias left the agency but became chairman of the Legislature's Economic Development Committee, overseeing his former agency and the rest of Mr. Sylver's department. He received $9,800 in campaign contributions from firms that benefited from the agency, either being hired to work for it or submitting projects that it approved. Mr. Mejias said the agency had already hired the firms before he arrived, called it ''squeaky clean'' and said, ''It's bringing in new business at a record rate.''
 $(6$)The Glen Cove law firm of Crowe Deegan, which donated $34,650 to Mr. Suozzi's county executive campaign. Without official authorization, the firm began working for the agency, shortly after Mr. Suozzi's election but before he actually took office. Without any competitive bidding, the agency later hired the firm retroactively and paid it $364,761. The firm also received another $402,026 from three other agencies under Mr. Sylver's control. H.U.D. is including $250,000 of that money in its demand for the repayment of nearly $1 million it says was misspent by Mr. Sylver or agencies under his control. 
 $(6$)Jon Kaiman, a Crowe Deegan lawyer who did legal work for the agency. Last fall he ran for office himself and is the new Democratic supervisor of North Hempstead town.
 $(6$)Robert Benrubi, another Crowe Deegan partner who was on the Suozzi transition team. He worked briefly on the county agency's staff and then joined another county agency payroll as a specialist in redeveloping polluted ''brownfields.'' He donated $300 to Mr. Mejias's campaign.
 $(6$)Zimmerman/Edelson, a Great Neck public relations firm that the county agency awarded a modest $14,387 contract for marketing and advertising. The firm's cofounder, Robert P. Zimmerman, is a member of the National Democratic Committee, a former candidate and a frequent party spokesman on television. His firm donated $2,500 to Mr. Suozzi's campaign. 
 Some of the hirings were contrary to Mr. Suozzi's general policy of cutting back fees for outside counsel and using staff lawyers instead. The agency records show that some firms were also hired without competitive bidding.
 Spending on personal services and other contracts, which totaled less than $500,000 a year in the Gulotta administration, has risen to about $700,000 under Mr. Suozzi, official filings show. For example, the agency paid $386,567 to the Garden City office of the law firm of Phillips Lytle, Hitchcock Blaine & Huber for bond counsel service. The statewide firm, which has a Garden City office and which worked for Glen Cove when Mr. Suozzi was its mayor, made seven campaign contributions totaling $41,550, of which Mr. Suozzi collected $39,600 and Mr. Mejias $1,950.
 While the biggest contracts went to Phillips Lytle and Crowe Deegan, smaller contracts included the Zimmerman/Edelson account and a $9,000 retainer for the accounting firm of Bloom & Company of Hempstead. It, too, donated to Mr. Suozzi's campaign, a total of $3,350.
 An audit in January of this year by the county comptroller, Howard S. Weitzman, a Democrat, criticized the Crowe Deegan contract. ''It had no spending cap or expiration date,'' he wrote. ''The I.D.A. failed to conduct or document any competitive process prior to hiring the firm or to require the disclosure or vetting of any potential conflict of interest or the appearance of the same.''
 ''The attorneys did not provide the number of hours worked on their invoice, and there is no evidence that the fees charged were reasonable or delineated in advance in the law firms engagement letter,'' the comptroller said. Likewise, the comptroller criticized the hiring process for Phillips Lytle: ''There was no evidence that any competitive procurement process was used to select this firm either.''
 Both law firms declined to comment, but Mr. Gioino said outside lawyers were retained for their expertise. ''The I.D.A. hired these firms based on their qualifications and their track record of getting results with other municipalities,'' he said. He added that their malpractice insurance shields the county from liability.
 Praising Crowe Deegan and Phillips Lytle, Mr. Suozzi described them as ''law firms that I trust, admire and respect and are qualified and do a very good job, whose abilities are beyond reproach.'' 
 He added: ''These are two firms that have known me for a long time. I've known them for a long time. They support me politically because they think I do a good job, and I hire them because I think they do a good job. That's it. That's the whole story, morning glory.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 24 about Nassau County's Industrial Development Agency misstated the financing for two projects, the MONY offices at Lake Success and a motel in Plainview. They received private financing at regular rates, the agency says, not low-interest I.D.A. bonds. As reported, the agency granted tax breaks of $572,896 for MONY and $407,207 for the motel.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MONY, owned by a Suozzi campaign contributor, received low-cost financing for a Lake Success site. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The Inn at Plainview, left, a lot in Roslyn to be developed by Forest City Daly, and the Tweezerman facility in Port Washington, above, are among the projects that received benefits from the county's Industrial Development Agency. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MISCONDUCT (74%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); SENTENCING (70%); SALES TAX (68%); LAWYERS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); ETHICS (67%); CITIES (50%); PROBATION (50%) Elections; Finances; Ethics; Public Works; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%) nassau county industrial development agency

PERSON: Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; David Mejias

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) ; Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



544 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Port Chester, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: A Village Takes Stock as More Retail Moves In

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IN almost all ways but geographic, Port Chester, N.Y., stands far apart from its three well-heeled neighbors. While Rye and Harrison, N.Y., and Greenwich, Conn., are notable for their manicured lawns, leafy streets and quaint downtowns, most of Port Chester looks and feels more like a small city than the Westchester suburb it actually is. And unlike the surrounding communities, with their high per capita incomes, most of Port Chester's residents are working-class, and many are immigrants.
 For the last 100 years, Our Lady of the Rosary, a Roman Catholic church that overlooks the village from a perch near the Long Island Sound, has ministered to successive waves of newcomers. ''A small Ellis Island,'' was the way the Rev. Timothy Ploch, a priest at Our Lady of the Rosary, recently described the bustling village with its crowded multifamily houses and densely populated downtown.
 In the early and mid 1900's, Port Chester was home to Irish, Polish and Italian immigrants. Many of them found work at local factories like BeechNut LifeSavers, built homes and sent their children to public schools. 
 Nowadays, immigrants from Mexico, Peru, Guatemala and Ecuador live in those modest wood-frame houses. And because many of Port Chester's factories closed during the 1950's and early 60's, they work instead as electricians, landscapers and small business entrepreneurs in the affluent neighboring towns.
 Port Chester's strong Latino presence is most obvious in the downtown business district, where bodegas, beauty salons, bars and ethnic restaurants thrive in commercial buildings dating back to the first half of the previous century. An area of several blocks along North and South Main Streets and sections of Westchester Avenue, home to a variety of ethnic restaurants from take-out to white tablecloth establishments, has become a destination in recent years for diners from Connecticut and Westchester in search of Latin American specialties.
 ''I've seen the downtown change in many ways since I was a kid growing up here,'' said Charles J. Rosabella, who worked at an ice cream shop in the village in 1960, when he was attending the local high school. 
 ''I still remember some of those original stores,'' said Mr. Rosabella, who now owns Century 21 Rosabella Realty in the village. ''Most of them are long gone, although a handful of the old-timers are still around.''
 There is another type of change about to take place in Port Chester, as new construction for several big retailers proceeds, and the longstanding mom-and-pop character of the downtown shifts to the sidelines.
 Nowhere can the interface between the old and new in the village be better seen than at the corner of Westchester Avenue and North and South Main Streets, at the center of the business district along the waterfront. There, next to a 140,000-square-foot Costco store that opened several years ago, a 15-screen movie theater, a Super Stop & Shop and other discounters are to open within the year. 
 Gregg Wasser, a principal with G&S Investors in Old Bethpage, N.Y., the developer for the Waterfront, as the project is called, recently described the village and area around it as a ''region that is under-retailed.''
 As villagers look ahead to the opening of the outlets, many are wondering how the changes will affect them. For residents like Rob and Gail Rothweiler, homeowners in Port Chester for the last 15 years, the new construction promises long-awaited economic growth in the village and hopefully an increase in real estate values. 
 ''There's good value here already, and it will probably get even better now,'' said Mr. Rothweiler, a sales executive with AT&T. The Rothweilers own a four-bedroom, three-bath colonial home on a 0.75-acre lot in the village. ''With the new stores, more people will be coming to Port Chester and paying attention to it,'' Mr. Rothweiler said.
 But another homeowner, Jesus Condori, predicted the opposite. He worried that the increase in traffic generated by the new stores would depress property values.
 Mr. Condori, who immigrated to Port Chester from Arequipa, Peru, in 1989, is an electrician and the owner of a two-family home in the village. Although elected officials have widened and improved roads leading to the Waterfront, traffic still snarls. ''Things could become even more overcrowded,'' Mr. Condori said.
 Property values have been on the upswing in Port Chester in recent years. The median sales price for a single-family home in the village at the beginning of October was $535,000, up from $497,000 at the same time last year.
 Property values for homes in the village are 19 percent lower than they are for Westchester as a whole. At last count, the current median sales price for a single-family home in the county was $660,000.
 For a multifamily home in the village, the median sales price was $550,000, up from $497,500 a year ago.
 For condos, the median was $317,500, up from $260,000 in 2003. For co-ops, though, the median sales price in early October was $82,000, down from $97,000 a year ago, possibly because fewer of the more expensive two-bedroom units were sold in that period, Mr. Rosabella said.
 He predicted the new retail stores would generate more revenue for Port Chester, ease the tax burden for property owners and eventually attract new residents to the village. ''With the tax rate more stable and new businesses generating more jobs, we'll expect to see an improvement,'' he said. 
 Despite the optimistic predictions for the future vitality of the residential market, persistent problems in the village could deter some potential property owners.
 Joseph Krzeminski, Port Chester's police chief, reported that there is some overcrowding in older multifamily homes owned by absentee landlords and rented out to immigrants, a situation that poses potential fire and health hazards.
 Another worry for the police chief is the drunkenness that occurs at night and on weekends in the village, including among some of the undocumented workers. 
 And then there are unresolved legal matters, including complaints and federal lawsuits, related to eminent domain proceedings that the village instituted to clear property for the waterfront development. At times, stays were issued that halted construction. But for now, the work is continuing, said Liane Watkins, a lawyer in White Plains, who is a special counsel to the village with her father, John Watkins. 
 In the schools, the increase in the number of Hispanic residents living in the village is documented in enrollment percentages. In 1981, 21.2 percent of the Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District's 2,959 students were Hispanic, 52.4 percent were white, 25.1 percent were black and 1.3 percent were Asian. Last year, 66.2 percent of the district's 2,575 students were Hispanic, 23 percent were white, 9.8 percent were black, and 1 percent were Asian.
 Mr. Rothweiler said that he and his wife, who is active with the local parent-teachers organization, send their daughters, who are 8 and 11, to the public schools, because ''the numbers are reflective of what the real world is all about, and our kids are faring well.'' He and his wife both trace their roots to Italian forebears in Port Chester.
 The primary concern for Charles D. Coletti, the superintendent of schools, is the large group of students -- 25 percent in the district -- who do not speak English fluently and therefore require classes taught in their native language. ''It's a challenge,'' he said.
 The district has four elementary schools for kindergarten through fifth grade, a middle school for Grades 6 though 8, and a high school. With 60 percent of senior class students taking the SAT's last spring, the average score for the verbal section of the tests was 469; for the math section, the average was 476. Statewide average scores on the tests in 2003 were 496 for verbal and 510 for math. 
 The Rothweilers, who recently sold a Cape Cod house in Port Chester for twice what they paid for it 15 years ago, and bought another home nearby in the mid-$600,000's, said they plan to stay in the village.
 Mr. Rothweiler described his neighborhood as ''peaceful and quiet,'' the school system as solid, and Port Chester in general as ''a good place to raise children.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: 'ELLIS ISLAND' WITH SHOPPING -- Immigrants have long found a home in Port Chester, N.Y., but residents are wondering what new construction, above, will mean for life and property values there.
 On the Market: WILLET AVENUE -- This two-family house at 225-227 Willet Avenue has a two-bedroom unit and a four-bedroom unit, and is listed at $749,500. (914)935-9370. WEST GLEN AVENUE -- This three-bedroom, two-bath house at 55 West Glen Avenue is listed at $542,000. (914)935-9370. WESTCHESTER AVENUE -- A one-bedroom, one-bath co-op at 360 Westchester Avenue is listed at $168,000. (914)935-9370. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 27,867AREA: 2.4 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $45,381MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $535,000AVERAGE TAX ON A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $8,500MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE A YEAR AGO: $497,000SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $14,000DISTANCE TO MANHATTAN: 26.9 milesZIP CODE: 10573RUSH-HOUR COMMUTE TO MIDTOWN: 45 minutes on Metro-North RailroadZIP CODE: 10573A SHIP-BUILDING HERITAGE: Before the Revolutionary War, the place now called Port Chester was a hamlet of Rye, and had a fledgling shipbuilding industry. During the war, it was a natural distribution point for local farm produce. Afterward, it became a steamboat stop, the eastern ''port of Westchester,'' with its current name officially adopted in 1837.Map of New York State highlighting Port Chester.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); RELIGION (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (65%); ICE CREAM (65%); RETAILERS (60%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Port Chester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



545 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Gets Tough to Transform Israel's Economy

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
As Finance Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushes to reshape Israel's economy, he makes a similar warning to almost everyone: expect to feel some pain.
 Mr. Netanyahu, a former prime minister and potentially a future one, has spared no one during his 19 months in his current post. 
 But he says an improving Israeli economy justifies his tough approach. 
 He considers it his duty to prod the poor to find jobs and to battle strike-prone unions that he says are dragging down the economy. 
 He tells middle-class Israelis they will have to live with reduced state benefits and warns the country's largest companies to brace themselves for a more competitive marketplace. 
 He is even calling for a modest cut in military spending despite the continuing struggle against the Palestinian uprising.
 When Mr. Netanyahu assumed his post last year, he often said that Israel's public sector accounted for 55 percent of the economy, while the private sector made up 45 percent, and that he intended to reverse that.
 In a country that is now mostly middle class but that has never completely abandoned its working-class roots, Mr. Netanyahu's efforts to make broad, market-oriented changes have met resistance at almost every turn.
 Prime Minister Ariel Sharon seldom speaks about economic issues at length and has granted Mr. Netanyahu, 55, broad latitude to handle financial affairs. But frequent protests against Mr. Netanyahu's policies may have political repercussions.
 In late September, the country had its third nationwide strike during Mr. Netanyahu's tenure, though it lasted just a day and a half. 
 Demonstrators opposed to his welfare cuts have maintained a presence in tents just outside the Finance Ministry for more than a year. 
 Shimon Peres, leader of the opposition Labor Party, has denounced the government's economic program as ''swinish capitalism.''
 But Mr. Netanyahu and his backers say his approach has contributed to an economic growth rate projected at 4 percent this year, compared with a growth rate of 1 percent in 2003 and declines of 1 percent in 2002 and 2001.
 Supporters also give credit to Mr. Netanyahu for substantial tax cuts, a stable currency, a sustained effort to chip away at the large public sector and improved domestic and international confidence in the economy.
 ''Israel's economy is on the right path, but the economy's car is still stuck in the mud, and we must continue to push it onto safe and dry ground,'' Mr. Netanyahu said recently. ''When we make it out of the mud, I want to make sure that everyone is in the car.''
 But critics say it is mostly the wealthy who have found seats in Mr. Netanyahu's vehicle. The technology industry appears to be recovering after a downturn that mirrored the one in the United States. 
 The stock market soared last year, and the top income tax rate for high-earning Israelis has dropped to 49 percent from 60 percent.
 Yet Israel's unemployment rate remains above 10 percent, and the Israeli news media frequently report on what they view as signs of worsening poverty, like long lines at soup kitchens.
 ''I view his program as very destructive,'' said Barbara Swirski, director of the Adva Center, a private research group in Tel Aviv that studies social issues. ''He tries to do everything in one giant step, and it damages the whole system.''
 Ms. Swirski cited the government's sharp cuts in welfare payments. She said she would support a welfare overhaul that included more training and employment opportunities. 
 ''But when you suddenly make a drastic cut in payments from one month to the next, you are going to hurt people,'' she said.
 Mr. Netanyahu is unapologetic. At a news conference in August to announce his planned budget for 2005, he said, ''We will continue to push the unemployed to go to work, because that is the way to eradicate poverty.''
 He says Israel cannot afford the level of benefits the state has been paying for decades. In a cut felt by every Israeli family, the government has reduced the monthly payment its sends to each household based on the number of children.
 This policy has encouraged large families. But with his customary bluntness, Mr. Netanyahu said families should not have more children than they could afford.
 ''He is determined to go with a free-market approach, but there has been so much resistance that he has not accomplished as much as he thought he could,'' said David Levhari, a professor of economics at Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
 Mr. Levhari said he generally supported Mr. Netanyahu's program, but predicted that the minister would continue to battle ingrained Israeli attitudes that favor a large government role in the economy.
 ''Israelis have the notion that the government should do something to solve their problems, not the market,'' Mr. Levhari said. 
 In September, a showdown between Mr. Netanyahu and Israel's powerful Histadrut labor federation was resolved, at least temporarily, when the National Labor Court ordered the end to a strike by 400,000 public-sector workers after one day.
 The court's ruling allowed both sides to claim a partial victory. The judge said the government must provide the money to pay nearly 20,000 municipal workers who have not received salaries for months.
 But the court also said that municipalities would have to agree to an economic recovery plan sought by Mr. Netanyahu, who has charged the local governments with widespread mismanagement. 
 Ezra Saban, a former director general of the Finance Ministry, said that Israel's economy had been opening up steadily for the last few decades, and that Mr. Netanyahu was pursuing a trend already in place, albeit with great gusto.
 ''The economy is becoming more market-oriented, and there is nothing the unions can do to stop it,'' said Mr. Saban, now a partner in an economic consulting firm in Israel. ''The business community here is much stronger than it used to be, and the unions no longer control things, as they did 20 to 25 years ago.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, second from left, says little about economic issues and has granted Benjamin Netanyahu, right, his finance minister and a former prime minister, broad latitude to handle financial affairs. (Photo by Gail Tibbon/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); STRIKES (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); CURRENCIES (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation; Currency; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (93%); SHIMON PERES (58%) Greg Myre; Benjamin (Finance Min) Netanyahu

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



546 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Is New York Losing Its Street Smarts?

BYLINE: By JOANNA SMITH RAKOFF. 
Joanna Smith Rakoff, a contributing editor and columnist for Poets and Writers magazine, is completing a novel set in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
ON a rainy night in April, a 24-year-old New Yorker named Jill Pittman left her weekly Bible study group in East Harlem, walked across town and took the subway to Harlem, where she shared an apartment with a college friend. As she walked home along her usual route, one block south on Lenox Avenue, and one block west on 134th Street, a hand closed firmly around her mouth and a soft voice uttered, ''Give me your money.'' 
 For a moment, Ms. Pittman thought her roommate's boyfriend, who lived nearby, was playing a joke on her. She had moved to the neighborhood six weeks earlier after a brief sojourn on the Upper West Side, and found it quiet and welcoming, full of families and friendly shopkeepers. 
 Then the assailant tightened his grip and repeated his command. A second assailant emerged from the darkness, yanked Ms. Pittman's messenger bag from across her chest, and fled. ''Walk that way and keep walking,'' the first man then whispered. She realized that this wasn't a joke. She had been mugged. 
 ''I felt a little silly when the police came,'' said Ms. Pittman, a friendly brunette from Kansas. ''You know, 134th Street is a dark street without much on it. They told me that one block north, 135th Street, it's a two-way street that's well lit. And it's a much more populated street, with shops and restaurants.'' 
 That Ms. Pittman had no qualms about walking solo down a dark, deserted street is a sign, certainly, of her rural roots. But it also speaks volumes on the major shift in the perception of New York. Over the last decade, as the homicide rate, for instance, dropped to a level not seen since 1963, as Bill Clinton settled into his Harlem office suite, and as even the most unlikely neighborhoods have been gentrified, the city's image has slowly evolved from Son of Sam to ''Sex and the City.'' 
 The bankrupt, graffiti-slathered, mugger-ravaged metropolis of the 70's, a cliche that lingered long after it bore only the faintest shred of accuracy, has emerged as an iridescent playland, with avenues lined with shops and bars, along which pretty young women might, and do, tromp about in six-inch stilettos. But has this happy turn for the city prompted the death of the street-smart New Yorker, once as large an urban figure as the opinionated cabby?
 ''My boyfriend, who grew up in Bed-Stuy, is always getting on me to be more careful with my wallet and where I put it in my bag,'' said Courtney Martin, a 24-year-old freelance writer who moved from Colorado to Manhattan in 1998 to attend Barnard College. ''It drives him crazy that I'm so trusting and optimistic. There is a part of me that feels like it is a self-fulfilling prophecy and if I do start to worry, I will bring on the bad luck.'' 
 Like many transplants in their 20's, Ms. Martin, now two years out of Barnard's cloistered confines, feels that her cellphone keeps her safe. ''I live in Windsor Terrace now, and I get on my cellphone whenever I walk home late at night by myself. Sometimes I will even just hold it up to my ear when I walk by people that look ominous. Silly, but somehow reassuring.'' 
 If Ms. Martin considers her precautions a bit silly, native New Yorkers find such cursory tactics, and the generally cavalier attitude that fuels them, both dangerous and, in a way, disrespectful to the city. Part of New York's charm, such natives believe, lies in its unconquerable dark side. 
 ''They need to know that it's not all magic,'' said Peter Shankman, a 32-year-old Manhattanite who wears his 1988 mugging outside La Guardia High School, near Lincoln Center, like a badge of honor. ''They're letting their guard down. Talking to people on the street without thinking about it. Taking the subway home late at night alone. No matter how good the city is, you can never forget that it's New York.'' 
 Eli B. Silverman, professor of police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and author of ''N.Y.P.D. Battles Crime: Innovative Strategies in Policing'' (Northeastern University Press, 1999), detects a complete reversal of social perspective since the mugging era. ''In the old days, you assumed things were going to go wrong,'' he said, but today ''there's this blithe assumption that things are going to go right.'' The upside, he said, is the more that people are visible ''the less likely it is the bad guys are going to take over the streets.'' The downside, he added, is that people ''may put themselves at risk.''
 Kaari Pitkin, who moved to New York 10 years ago after graduating from Smith College in Northampton, Mass., knows about the downside. 
 Last December, while waiting for a train in the Borough Hall station in Downtown Brooklyn, Ms. Pitkin, a producer for WNYC, the city's public radio station, felt a tug on her shoulder and turned to find a man grabbing her wallet out of her open purse. ''Get your hand out of my bag!'' she yelled. The man quickly obeyed. 
 ''You would think I would have learned,'' she recalled recently with a laugh. ''But no.'' A month later, while shopping at the Key Food near her Park Slope apartment, a second pickpocket made a play for her wallet. This time she didn't notice until it was too late. ''I had shoved my wallet, probably really stupidly, in the open pocket of my coat. And I was talking on my cellphone and just generally being completely spacey and not paying attention to what was going on around me.'' 
 Recently, Ms. Pitkin has changed her attitude toward her own security, reverting to the warier behavior that marked her first years in New York. She is more aware of who is standing next to her and who is walking behind her. Still, she admitted, she sometimes leaves her bag open. ''I work in the news. We report on crime all the time. You know'' -- she lowers her voice to an announcer's baritone -- '''New York is now the safest city in the country. The lowest crime rate ever.' I kind of take that stuff to heart and don't get too worked up about things.'' 
 Despite the still-souring economy, crime rates have continued to drop, in part because of even more basic changes in the city. 
 ''It's about gentrification,'' said Nancy Mahon, a lawyer who headed the Center on Crimes, Communities and Culture, part of the Soros Foundations Network, for five years. ''Quality-of-life stuff. The city looks better, and people feel better. The fabric of the city has changed.'' Some wonder if the current low level of street crime might not have something to do with the attacks of Sept. 11, which caused an unprecedented solidarity among New Yorkers of all stripes. 
 In a twist, the fear of just such another terrorist attack may be what has eclipsed many New Yorkers' fear of an everyday mugging. ''People have shifted their attention away from street crime to terrorism and more serious crime,'' said Christopher Falkenberg, a former Secret Service agent who now runs Insite Security, a Midtown consulting firm that caters to corporations and affluent families. ''They're less worried about open backpacks and pickpockets than they are about bombings.'' 
 Meanwhile, Ms. Pittman, the onetime Kansas farm girl, is living a little more defensively these days. After the mugging, she had long discussions about basic self-defense with her roommate's boyfriend, who, as it happened, had been mugged two months earlier. Now, Ms. Pittman keeps to well-lighted streets when she's alone, and tries to walk with friends whenever possible. If she hears someone approaching from behind, she turns and meets that person's gaze. When riding the subway, she avoids empty cars. 
 ''I carry myself differently now,'' she says, with pride. ''At the time, I'd only been in the neighborhood six weeks and I didn't feel comfortable there. Now, I feel like I belong.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ALERT -- Despite less crime, ''You can never forget that it's New York,'' a native warned. (Photo by Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 (Photo by Mike Appleton for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (89%); VANDALISM (78%); RETAILERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOMICIDE (62%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (62%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%) Robberies and Thefts; Muggings

PERSON: Joanna Smith Rakoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



547 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: PLANNING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Heirlooms, Yes, but Without the Looming Heirs

BYLINE: By SUSAN B. GARLAND

 BODY:
EIGHT years ago, when Barbara and John Mich decided to move from their 10-room house to an apartment half the size in Canton, Mass., they asked their six adult children to take many of the possessions they had accumulated over the years.
 The children came home to choose among those belongings -- like a grandmother's red marble table, a great-grandparent's china set and even a small ceramic Christmas tree that the family decorated each year with gumdrops. In many cases, the items may have had more sentimental than financial value.
 Mrs. Mich, 73, says she and her husband intend to give away more things over the next few years and to leave a list of the rest as part of their estate. Several of her children have already expressed interest in particular items. ''I think that if they want something and it means something to them, they should have it,'' she said. 
 In many other families, dividing the furniture, dishes, and assorted tchotchkes of a loved one doesn't go this smoothly. Parents usually leave it to their heirs to divide personal property after their deaths, giving their already overwrought children the challenge of splitting grandfather's beloved watch three ways. Instead, say people with experience in estate planning or division, the best way to avoid hurt feelings, lifelong rifts and even lawsuits is to include the children ahead of time, as the Miches did.
 ''Personal effects are so freighted with emotional issues that the real battle is waged over who gets the photograph albums rather than the $30 million,'' said Jon Gallo, an estate planning lawyer in Los Angeles who, with his wife, Eileen, a psychotherapist, conducts seminars on the emotional issues tied to family wealth.
 Family squabbles over belongings are nothing new, of course. But the questions are becoming more complex as the structures of many families change: How do you ensure that your stepchildren receive something special? If you remarry later in life, should Grandmother's crystal go to your new spouse or to your adult daughter? 
 Though the subject can be touchy, experts say, parents and adult children should talk about the transfer of personal property and make some distribution decisions well before problems escalate.
 ''It's absolutely acceptable for the parents to say, 'We have a lot of stuff here, and at some point, it's going to be yours, so let's talk about this now,''' said Linda Hetzer, co-author, with Janet Hulstrand, of ''Moving On: A Practical Guide to Downsizing the Family Home'' (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, 2004). They wrote the book after helping their fathers move to smaller homes, and after talking with many families. If parents don't raise the subject, Ms. Hetzer said, grown children should dismiss any concerns about appearing greedy and broach the issue themselves.
 The discussions can go a long way toward averting misunderstandings, experts say. While some parents make no provision in their wills for personal possessions, others bequeath certain items without stating the reasons for their decisions. Either way, childhood conflicts can resurface. 
 ''It may play out as, 'They knew I wanted this and they gave it to my sibling, and this proves Mom loved you best,''' said Marlene S. Stum, associate professor of family economics at the University of Minnesota. ''It helps to explain to your children why you decided to give a gift to a caregiver or reward a child who helped out financially.'' 
 In 1999, the university extension service released ''Who Gets Grandma's Yellow Pie Plate'' (www.yellowpieplate.umn.edu), a workbook and video intended to help families make decisions on passing on personal property; Dr. Stum was the lead researcher and author for the project.
 Because each family is different, no single system works for everyone. Some families agree that all members should get the same treatment -- to the point that each child receives the same dollar value of appraised items. But others may decide, for example, to give a little extra to the daughter who helped her parents the most, or to a nephew who is struggling financially. 
 Once the subject is raised, a good way for parents to start is to ask the children if there are particular items they want. If a family is lucky, the wish lists won't overlap. Another popular method of distribution is a round robin in which family members take turns choosing objects.
 In one family, Ms. Hulstrand recalled, all the adult children placed colored stickers on items they wanted, and the parents kept track in a notebook. When an item had more than one sticker, the children worked it out. ''If someone thought one person was claiming too much, they could look in the notebook and see what was fair,'' Ms. Hulstrand said.
 Parents can appraise items of financial value and separate them from those of purely sentimental worth; then the children make requests from one list at a time. That way, the silver service doesn't end up on the same list as the turkey-shaped salt shaker. It may be best for the parents to leave children's spouses or the grandchildren out of the decision making, even if parents eventually set aside special gifts for them. 
 Parents may be surprised by some of the choices. ''They see their assumptions were off base,'' Dr. Stum said. ''You may think Janey will love your thimble collection, but Janey may not care at all, and parents usually want possessions to go to someone who really values them.''
 A discussion also allows parents to share the history behind certain objects. ''The stories can make the things very special, and sometimes the stories are more important than the items,'' Ms. Hulstrand said. Often, parents use such occasions to offer gifts early; the good dishes, for instance, might go to the child who has taken over the holiday dinners. 
 Colleen Barney, an estate lawyer in Irvine, Calif., said parents should make a list of who is getting what, then make sure the will refers to it. By keeping the list separate from the will, parents have the flexibility to change their minds without having to rewrite the will each time. 
 If you want to make gifts to people outside the immediate family -- friends, nieces or stepchildren -- make sure they are listed, said Ms. Barney, the co-author, with Victoria Collins, of ''Best Intentions: Ensuring Your Estate Plan Delivers Both Wealth and Wisdom'' (Dearborn Trade, 2002). If you remarry and want to leave certain belongings to your children, she said, write it down.
 Such early decision making can be a big relief for children. A woman from Fairfield County, Conn., who asked that her name not be used, said that every time her mother bought a piece of jewelry, she would decide whether it would go to her or to her sister -- and would then record the choice on a list with two columns.
 When her mother died a decade ago, the two sisters divided the items accordingly. The list removed a burden at an already difficult time.
 ''We didn't have to deal with choosing,'' the woman said. ''She always tried to make things easy for her children.''

QUICK READ
Here are considerations for dividing personal property in an estate:

UNDERSTAND family members' attachments to certain possessions. Take your time, and encourage other family members to talk openly.

DECIDE what is fair. Should everyone be treated equally, regardless of their contribution, need or marital status?

SEPARATE financially valuable items from sentimentally valuable ones. If you and others want some of the same things, take turns choosing from each list.

BE practical. Give the piano, for example, to a grandchild who likes music.

DON'T make decisions immediately after a funeral. Let emotions settle.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara and John Mich of Canton, Mass., expect to give the china they received as a wedding gift in 1954 to one of their daughters. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (74%); ESTATE PLANNING (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (71%); WILLS (69%); LITIGATION (65%); STEPPARENTS (61%); WRITERS (60%) Wills and Estates; Families and Family Life

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%) University of Minnesota

PERSON: Marlene S Stum; Susan B Garland

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



548 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK OBSERVED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Miss Subways, Subversive and Sublime

BYLINE: By MELANIE BUSH. 
Melanie Bush, a former writer for The Village Voice, has recently completed a novel called ''Money Makes It Clean,'' about journalists and sex workers during the makeover of Times Square.

 BODY:
RIDING the D train to Sheepshead Bay in the 1970's, I knew I would never be Miss America. Not just because I was short, Jewish and nerdily bespectacled by the time I was 8. No, it was something more enigmatic than that, and even less changeable: Even as an 8-year-old, I sensed the complete and irrevocable impossibility of anyone who rode the D train ever becoming Miss America. Burdened -- tainted -- with intimate knowledge of the D train, I could never grow up into that ideal of disinterested equanimity all Miss Americas should embody.
 But so what? I could become Miss Subways. 
 From 1941 to 1977, a company called New York Subways Advertising sponsored the Miss Subways contest. Applicants, ranging in age from 14 to 30, all purportedly riders of the subway, sent their photos and biographies to John Robert Powers, a top modeling agent. The lucky winner had her face, along with a blurb about her life and ambitions, plastered in every car of the IND, IRT and BMT for one month.
 The contest has been revived and Miss Subways' daughters, making their debut as Ms. Subways on a system that celebrates its 100th anniversary this week, will no doubt maintain their forerunners' pedigree. Unlike Miss America, these queens represented the full spectrum of their constituency, mainly Irish, Italian, Latina and Jewish. The first black winner reigned on the trains in 1947 (36 years before a black Miss America), the first Asian in 1949. 
 Dressed up and itching between my parents on those rush-hour D trains to Grandma's shabbes dinner, I gazed into Miss Subways' calm, confident eyes. Would my sisters attain the goals their blurbs so assertively stated, though they, too, had the mark of the subway upon them? Was this just another dumb beauty contest? And what did it all mean for me? 
 Thirty years later, I paid a visit to the old Miss Subways posters at Ellen's Stardust Diner. Ellen Hart Sturm, Miss Subways of March 1959, told me that Miss Subways was created to ''put a little glamour in the subways, something to cheer people up.'' Bernard Spaulding, who supervised the contest in its last 14 years, claimed that the contest was simply a ploy by Subways Advertising to ''increase the eye traffic for adjoining ads.''
 But for whose benefit was this glamour, I wonder. Which people were being cheered up? Whose eyes were being seduced to drink the message of adjacent advertisers at the dawn of World War II as the men marched off to fight? 
 It's no secret that in eras when women gain greater economic mobility -- often, historically, during wartime -- the thing Naomi Wolf has called the beauty myth gets shoved down our throats with heightened vigor. It's also true that the Miss Subways posters -- carrying the tag line ''Look around this car! Next month's selection may be riding with you!'' -- overtly functioned like beauty advertising aimed at women everywhere: Divide and conquer, instill self-doubt.
 But the posters were also covertly feminist, sometimes shockingly so, even to me, a child of the 70's. From the first (''Mona Freeman, wants to be a top notch freelance illustrator'') to the last (''Heidi Hafner Her goal: a flight instructor's rating''), they focused on women's ambitions, and in the 1940's or the 70's or now, that's a rare rose to find clamped in the teeth of mass advertising. Yet there it was, and there it more or less firmly remained, probably because the contest was structured during World War II, when more than three million women were offered paying work for the first time, and were thus riding the subways, not to mention operating them, in much greater numbers than before. Connoting glamour in work was a useful tool in industry's campaign to enlist them. 
 The posters were at their most radical during the war years, and reflect women's later return to the home. Miss Subways' journey tracks a clear underground parallel to the prescribed roles of her sisters' above: While the civilian women of World War II may have been crucial to the work force, the purpose of housewives, as Betty Friedan puts it, ''is to buy more things for the house.'' 
 From the exhilarating peak of December 1942's Marguerite McAuliffe, ''whose aim is to be a doctor as good as her dad,'' and November 1943's Cecile Woodley, whose ''main interests are her job and the Navy enthusiastically O.K.'s skiing, Mozart and Katharine Hepburn,'' we slide submissively toward Irene Scheidt, June 1950, whose ''fondest hope is a trip to Bermuda.'' Then up we go again to Eleanor Nash, November 1960, ''young, beautiful, and expert with a rifle.''
 SEEING the ad cards again at Ellen's, I was jolted back to the thrilling ride that Miss Subways offered to a young, identity-seeking passenger. My eyes weren't ''trafficked'' to the ads. I didn't care about bleaching my mustache or learning to type. What I waited for each new month was: What did she do? What were her goals? The Miss Subways I wanted to be was the airplane pilot. Or how about ''travel writer''? ''Scientist''? ''Surgeon''? Right there on the subway! For me, any mention of their appearance flew back into oblivion like dead planets. Maybe next month she'd plan to be an astronaut. Or president! 
 What was actually going on here, I saw, was women, real New York women, talking to each other about their intentions and transmitting these messages through the medium of some men's advertising campaign. And where were they doing it? Underground! Miss Subways became one more game to decipher, one more code to crack. Even the name had a double-toned ring for those who could hear it: Miss Sub Ways. Subterfuge. Subversive. Sublime.
 That their standard of beauty was realistic didn't hurt, either: It jibed with the girl I saw in the mirror and made their goals seem real too. Unlike Miss America, these women would build real lives on what they accomplished in the real world, not in some shifting netherworld of male fantasy. 
 They talked to me on the D train, these queens of rapid transit, with a telepathic elbow jab to the ribs. ''Sure, we'll let them doll us up; they can't see what we're really doing. But we know where we're going, kid, and when we get there, there'll be room for you too.'' Those ethnic, ambitious beauties, often rendered ''beautiful'' by fairly obvious photographic or cosmetic techniques, they winked at me when no one was looking.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Nicholas Hegel McClelland for The New York Times
 insets above left and top right from ''Subways: The Tracks That Built New York City'' by Lorraine B. Diehl [Clarkson Potter]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (78%); WORLD WAR II (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); RESTAURANTS (63%) Beauty Contests; Transit Systems; Miss Subways (Beauty Contest)

ORGANIZATION: Ellen's Stardust Diner (Nyc Restaurant)

PERSON: Melanie Bush; Ellen Hart Strum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



549 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Wheel Is Turning Against S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
ABOUT once a month, without fail, as Bryan Feery drives his Hummer around Glastonbury, somebody holds up a hand as he passes by. The person isn't waving.
 ''Oh absolutely, I get the finger from people,'' he said.
 Such hostility is a more visible sign of the backlash against sport utility vehicles. Since 1989, when sales of the vehicles really took off, Hummer dealerships have been torched, environmental groups have lobbied against S.U.V.'s, and books have examined their flaws. Never mind what the neighbors think. 
 ''I hate them,'' Kay Frangione of Southington said recently as she was helping her daughter and two grandchildren out of her Honda Accord at the Westfield Shoppingtown mall in Meriden. ''I cannot see over them. And I think there's a general personality that goes with the car, if you know what I mean.''
 Some car manufacturers call the driver's seat in an S.U.V. ''the command position,'' and the bulk of the vehicles intimidate some drivers of smaller cars, inflaming passions in a way that tractor-trailers and pickup trucks never did. The Sierra Club, the environmental group, has called the tension on the roadways between the vehicles and passenger cars ''the Survival of the Fattest.'' Indeed, a New Britain woman who asked that her name not be used, keeps a pad and paper in her sedan as tools in her battle with S.U.V.'s. 
 ''I take their license plate numbers down now,'' said the woman, who has twice called police on her cellphone to report aggressive S.U.V. drivers. ''They just expect you to move over, even if there's no place to go. And I've been noticing they're even worse in bad weather. They just want me to get out of their way.''
 Michael Marsden, the dean of St. Norbert College in Wisconsin who has taught a course on automobiles and American pop culture, said he has never seen such anger directed against a vehicle. 
 ''Nobody has seen a backlash against motor homes, or pickup trucks, both equally inefficient with fuel,'' he said. ''I think the symbology of the S.U.V. is the issue. From some points of view they are excessive. A lot of people believe in their minds that these cars are safer for their families. They see more from the driver's seat, they feel above traffic problems, so they are looking at it from another lens. But for running around town, they don't make a lot of sense.''
 And there are practical concerns. Despite their perception of being safer than passenger cars, S.U.V.'s have a greater chance of rolling over in a single-car accident than any other vehicle. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reported in August that people in sport utility vehicles in 2003 had nearly an 11 percent greater chance of dying in an accident than people in cars.
 Insurance groups also cite accident incompatibility, in which many S.U.V. bumpers do not match up to passenger car bumpers, as a primary cause of escalating insurance costs for all cars. And with the price of gas above $2 a gallon, S.U.V.'s, especially the ones that get 11 to 14 miles a gallon, are becoming expensive to drive.
 ''I'm getting eight feet to the gallon with this car,'' said William Tyler, a sergeant with the Farmington Police Department, about his Dodge Durango. ''I can hardly afford the gas. When I'm driving, I literally can see the gas gauge moving.'' He said he was thinking of selling it.
 Sales of S.U.V.'s still remain solid, but there has been a softening of sales for the larger ones. That has forced many manufactures to offer cash incentives to buyers to keep the bigger S.U.V.'s moving.
 At Griffin Ford in Greenwich, buyers are still going directly to an S.U.V., the Ford Explorer, when they come in, said Jerry Cooper, general manager. The Explorer is Ford's best-selling vehicle, but the larger Expedition, and the largest, the Excursion, are barely selling, even with incentives
 ''The Explorer is our bread and butter,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''The market for the Excursion is very, very soft in this area of the country. It's primarily selling in the Southwest, for towing other vehicles.''
 Robert Scungio, the general sales manager of Branch Toyota in Watertown, said the smaller S.U.V.'s, such as the RAV4, the Highlander and the 4Runner, are selling, but not the Sequoia, one of Toyota's largest S.U.V.'s. 
 ''The bigger cars are flat,'' he said. ''I honestly can tell you that Sequoia sales are not hot. The smaller S.U.V.'s are what are selling here.''
 Sales of the Hummer, one of the largest S.U.V.'s on the road, are down 20 percent nationwide through September compared with the same period last year, according to the National Automobile Dealers Association. The novelty of the military-inspired vehicle hasn't worn off for Mr. Feery, though. He went from a Ford Expedition to his Hummer, which he bought more than a year ago.
 When Mr. Feery stops at a gas station, other drivers often approach him to ask about his gas mileage. Eleven miles to the gallon, with a 32-gallon tank, he tells them. Mr. Feery defended his purchase, saying he works with developers and must navigate unpaved roads on construction sites regularly.
 ''Besides, I like the look of it,'' he said. ''I enjoy nice cars.''
 Others owners, like Sergeant Tyler, want to get rid of their S.U.V.'s, but have had trouble finding any takers.
 ''We're getting away from gas guzzlers,'' said Ken Maynard of Enfield, who has been listing his Chevy Suburban in newspaper classifieds for weeks. ''This car isn't terrible on gas; it's a little bit better than the older ones. But I haven't had one call.''
 Pia Slivinski of Willimantic has been trying to sell her Jeep Grand Cherokee for weeks, too.
 ''I really like the vehicle,'' said Ms. Slivinski, who uses the car to commute to work. ''But I'm paying a ridiculous amount of money to keep it; $400 a month on insurance, and it's stupid to spend so much money on gas.''
 Car buyers have been increasingly turning to the smaller, car-based utility wagons, known as crossovers, or C.U.V.'s. They include the Toyota Highlander, the Honda Pilot and the Lexus RX330, which are built on a car frame but still offer four-wheel drive, said Paul Taylor, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers' Association in Virginia.
 ''The truck-based S.U.V.'s heyday was 1989 to '99,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''The C.U.V.'s have been strong since 2000. It seems like a compromise; crossover vehicles that park in a normal spot at McDonald's or the mall.''
 Sales of crossover vehicles grew 34.9 percent in 2003, compared to 2002, as sales of truck-based S.U.V.'s declined by 3.7 percent. Mr. Taylor said he believed sales will grow by at least 40 percent next year for the crossovers, while truck-based S.U.V. sales will decline or remain flat. The automobile dealers association does not track statewide sales figures.
 Nona Aubin of Cheshire owns both a Nissan Altima and a Nissan Xterra sports utility. She said she felt vulnerable on the highway with the Altima. ''So we take the S.U.V. on the highway,'' she said.
 Mr. Marsden of St. Norbert College, who has a home in snowy northern Michigan and owns three sport utility vehicles, said many people feel that way, including himself.
 ''The S.U.V. is the contemporary equivalent of the Conestoga wagon in the 19th century,'' he said. ''It was the wagon that crossed the western plains. The S.U.V. is the security blanket for the 21st century. We have a long history of needing to tame our landscape. I know this sounds like an overstatement, but once we closed the American frontier, we had to find a new frontier, and the highway, the motor scape, is the new frontier. A lot of this is metaphoric, but people are willing to spend a lot of money on symbolism.'' 
 Some drivers of cars said that they have noticed that S.U.V. owners drive aggressively and are fighting back by being aggressive themselves. Catherine Gooley of Wethersfield said S.U.V. drivers often cut her off in her Buick Century, an older-model midsized car. After years of doing nothing, she now honks and yells at offenders. Still, she said, she thought her actions were fruitless.
 ''I don't think they hear me, because it's not making any difference,'' she said. ''S.U.V. drivers think they're driving 18-wheelers out there.'' 
 Betty Wolf of Hamden, who drives a Toyota Camry, said she believed S.U.V.'s should be banned. But she was loath to tell her son-in-law, who owned one, how she felt.
 ''I really wish they would stop making them,'' she said as she walked to her car in the Westfield Shoppingtown parking lot. ''They're bad on gas, I can't see around them, they topple over in accidents. Yet so many people have them.''
 Across the lot, Bob Chiapponi of Middletown gazed admiringly at a big Chevy Tahoe parked across from his smaller Blazer. ''I used to hate these things,'' he said. ''Now I love them. I don't care what people think; I worry about me. I'm thinking, maybe, a Toyota Sequoia.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bryan Feery, above, drives a Hummer because he often must navigate unpaved roads on construction sites. Left, a driver in Greenwich getting into one of the larger S.U.V's. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Betty Wolf of Hamden, who drives a Toyota Camry, said S.U.V.'s should be banned. ''I really wish they would stop making them,'' she said.
A Ford Expedition dwarfs its neighbor, a Volkswagen New Beetle, at a commuter parking lot in Westport. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
Pontiac Bonneville
Honda Pilot
 Ford Explorer (pg. 4)Chart: ''Downsizing''Sales of sport utility vehicles have softened nationally as car-based crossover vehicles have become popular.Graph tracks sales of cars, in millions, from 1999 through September 2004.Graph tracks sales of crossovers, in millions, from 1999 through September 2004.Graph tracks sales of S.U.V.'s, in millions, from 1999 through September 2004.Hummer'00: 875'01: 768'02: 19,581'03: 35,259'04: 17,284(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); SEDANS (74%); LOBBYING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: WESTFIELD GROUP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%)

TICKER: WDC (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (56%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (56%)

PERSON: Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



550 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3228 words

HEADLINE: Gone in 60 Seconds

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
PAUSING in the foyer of a comfortable suburban home two days before Halloween in 2002, Kevin Barrows, a special agent with the F.B.I., could not bring himself to open the front door. He and a team of agents had just spent several hours searching every room in the house, in New Rochelle, N.Y., but they were leaving empty-handed. Months of investigating had led Mr. Barrows to believe that someone was orchestrating a huge fraud from the house, yet he had not found a single scrap of evidence.
 Still, something bothered him about the furniture in one of the bedrooms. It seemed oddly oversized. So he headed back upstairs for a second look, and his attention focused on an expansive canopy over the bed. When he pushed at the draping, he found that it was weighed down with files. They contained reams of confidential financial information about hundreds of individuals whose identities had been pilfered in an intricate scheme that illicitly netted more than $50 million. 
 Two years later, the New Rochelle home has emerged as a linchpin in what federal law enforcement authorities describe as the biggest case of identity theft ever uncovered in the United States. The scheme was essentially masterminded by just two people: Linus Baptiste, who lived in the house and had contacts with a sprawling ring of Nigerian street criminals, and Philip A. Cummings, his former brother-in-law, who worked as a help-desk clerk at a Long Island software company. At least 30,000 people nationwide were victimized, according to law enforcement authorities and court documents.
 ''In a lot of ways it could have been the perfect crime,'' Mr. Barrows, who now works as a private investigator, recalled in a recent interview. ''The execution was seamless, and if they had been smart enough not to use a phone line that traced back to that house we probably never would have found them.''
 The Baptiste case and others like it are at the forefront of one of the fastest-growing white-collar crimes in the country. Identity theft involves the most intimate, the most stealthy and perhaps the most intrusive of frauds -- the wholesale lifting of someone's financial persona to secure bank loans, credit cards and mortgages in that person's name. Even when the crimes are discovered early, it can take months, sometimes years, for innocent people to restore tattered credit histories. While most consumers usually do not have to pay for illicit purchases on their credit cards, they may be held liable in thefts involving other types of loans. 
 ''Ultimately, victims don't have to pay debts incurred by another person, but that's not the point,'' said Bridget J. Thomas, a homemaker in Prairieville, La., who spent months repairing her credit history in 2002 after a thief appropriated her identity to snare about $65,000 in loans. ''It's the sleepless nights, and the time, and the stress you have to go through to clean up your record that really hurts victims.''
 ANALYSTS say several factors have combined to make identity theft a particularly intractable crime: the growth of the Internet and digital finance, decades of expanding consumer credit worldwide, the hodgepodge nature of local and federal law enforcement, and the changing but often still inadequate regulations governing the credit industry. 
 Everyone is fair game. Thieves recently snatched the identity of a three-week-old infant in Bothell, Wash. And authorities say that the dead have been favorite targets of identity thieves for years. Nor is identity theft limited to people. A growing number of thieves now assume the false guise of entire companies, adopting a business's employer identification number to secure commercial loans, corporate leases or expensive office products, according to analysts, security specialists and law enforcement officials. 
 Schemes known as ''phishing'' use e-mail messages to lure unwitting consumers to Web sites masquerading as home pages of trusted banks and credit card issuers, corporate security specialists say. Online visitors are then induced to reveal passwords as well as bank account, Social Security and credit card numbers. 
 The F.B.I. says that many identity thefts and cyberschemes that play out in the United States are hatched in Russia, Romania and West Africa and that the agency is trying to work with law enforcement officials in those places to stem the problem. A leading bank regulator, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, warned in June that increased corporate outsourcing of call-center tasks and other jobs overseas had heightened the risk of identity theft. 
 Authorities have only recently grasped the full scope of the problem. It began to gain more attention a decade ago, prompting Congress in 1998 to make identity theft a federal crime and the Federal Trade Commission to set up a special victim assistance center a year later. Until a couple of years ago, analysts and federal authorities estimated the annual number of identity thefts to be in the hundreds of thousands. But in September 2003, the F.T.C. offered an eye-opening assessment of how widespread and damaging such crime might be.
 In a report prepared by its consumer protection bureau, the F.T.C. said 27.3 million Americans had their identities stolen from April 1998 to April 2003 -- with more than a third of them, or 9.9 million, victimized in the last 12 months of that period alone. The crimes ranged from the theft of a credit card number to more elaborate identity thefts used to secure loans. During those 12 months, the report said, businesses and financial institutions suffered about $48 billion in losses because of identity theft, and victimized consumers paid more than $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses to regain their financial identities. 
 ''The number of victims we were estimating in 2000 were 400,000 to 500,000 annually and by 2003 we were saying 750,000,'' said Linda Foley, executive director of the Identity Theft Resource Center, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group based in San Diego. ''The business community said 'Oh, you are wrong; those numbers are wrong.' Well, we were wrong. The numbers were much higher.''
 Experts say identity theft has evolved from isolated examples, like Ms. Thomas's, to ever broader and more financially damaging cases, like the one investigated by Mr. Barrows, that involve the speedy theft and aggregation of hundreds or even thousands of identities. Many of the most vicious cases, say analysts, involve corporate insiders who hijack sensitive personal information from corporate databases in order to begin picking people's pockets.
 ''We're in the information database age, and insider theft has turned toward the theft of information, and specifically personal information, because with an assumed identity criminals can purchase goods and services at will using someone else's credit,'' said Judith Collins, an associate professor of criminal justice at Michigan State University and an expert on identity theft. ''Increasingly, we're seeing cases where identities are stolen in the U.S. and then used elsewhere overseas.''
 Last year, Dr. Collins completed a study of more than 1,000 identity theft cases from 1999 to 2002, the results of which she plans to publish soon. She said the report would indicate that about 5 percent of the crimes examined were linked to known or suspected terrorists. 
 Law enforcement officials say they believe that members of the Irish Republican Army and terrorists involved in the foiled plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport relied heavily on identity theft schemes to finance their operations. Operation Web Snare, a Justice Department investigation of cybercrimes that was begun last summer, found possible links between identity theft and terrorism financing, according to a government report on the investigation.
 Dr. Collins said her study would highlight other important aspects of identity theft. For example, the study will show that corporate insiders set in motion about half of the identity theft cases examined. The F.T.C. has reached similar conclusions. 
 ''Insiders are often targeted or corrupted by organized crime groups to provide information,'' said Joanna Crane, manager of the F.T.C.'s identity theft program. ''You might see groups plant someone at a temp agency or janitorial agencies so they can steal files when they are contracted out to work for someone else.''
 Or, as the partnership of Mr. Baptiste and Mr. Cummings showed, cultivating a corrupt insider may be simply a family affair.
 Mr. Burrows, the F.B.I. agent, said he had his first inkling of the scheme in early 2002, after the F.B.I. office in Detroit passed along a fraud case to his New York supervisors that the Detroit agents believed was unsolvable. A former lawyer and Wall Street analyst, Mr. Barrows had successfully investigated securities fraud, and his supervisors tapped him to investigate the matter. At the time, the authorities knew that about 15,000 people had been victimized, largely because someone had used corporate codes and passwords to access their credit histories from reporting agencies like Experian, Equifax and TransUnion.
 ''It didn't take a rocket scientist to discover that the weak link was somebody who had stolen confidential subscriber codes and passwords,'' Mr. Barrows said. ''But the question of 'who' was much more difficult to answer.''
 Mr. Barrows joined forces with an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan. The pair began to focus on who would be in a position to get the codes. Several companies across the country, all of which were unaware of the problem, had had their codes stolen. The companies were diverse -- including banks, auto dealerships and a hospital -- but each used a software product made by a Long Island company, Teledata Communications of Hauppaugue. The software allowed companies to use personal computers to request and download credit histories from reporting agencies.
 Mr. Barrows focused on Teledata employees as likely perpetrators. He looked almost exclusively at the company's help-desk representatives, knowing that those employees interacted with customers who provided confidential personal information like Social Security numbers. Mr. Barrows and an Equifax employee also began cross-referencing Teledata's telephone records with Equifax records to find instances when small auto dealerships ordered unusually large batches of credit histories. He said that phase of the investigation lasted four months and involved painstaking research akin to ''looking for a needle in a haystack.''
 Luckily, Mr. Barrows and his Equifax colleague found their needle: a telephone number linked to Mr. Baptiste's home in New Rochelle.
 AFTER Mr. Barrows discovered the credit files in the bedroom, he found a ledger detailing amounts paid and owed to Mr. Baptiste. Mr. Barrows also discovered a laptop computer hidden in the bedroom. It contained a document bearing the name of Mr. Baptiste's former brother-in-law, Mr. Cummings, who worked on Teledata's help desk.
 According to court records and law enforcement officials, Mr. Baptiste approached Mr. Cummings in 2000 and offered to bribe him to download as many credit histories as possible, using appropriated corporate passwords and the Teledata software; at least 20 Nigerians in the Bronx and Brooklyn who were linked to Mr. Baptiste paid the pair $60 for each credit report acquired. 
 The Nigerians used the information to get credit cards in victims' names, the officials say. With the cards in hand, they went on shopping sprees at retail outlets like Home Depot, reselling their merchandise for cash to fencers for about half the purchase price charged to the cards. The identity thieves also used the pilfered information to deplete victims' bank accounts, change addresses on the accounts and take out loans.
 All told, the Baptiste-Cummings ring stole identities from at least 30,000 people from 2000 to 2002, ringing up tens of millions of dollars in profits, according to law enforcement officials and court papers. While court papers describe Mr. Baptiste and Mr. Cummings as architects of the scheme, the United States attorney's office declined to comment on how the ring actually divided its loot. 
 Mr. Baptiste, Mr. Cummings and at least five other people were arrested shortly after Mr. Barrows searched the New Rochelle home. Mr. Baptiste and Mr. Cummings have pleaded guilty to fraud charges filed in federal court in Manhattan and await sentencing early next year. Their lawyers declined to comment on the charges, but Mr. Cummings, who appeared in federal court last month with an oxygen tube in his nose, is seeking a reduced sentence because he says his health is fragile. The United States attorney's office in Manhattan would not comment on whether other arrests were imminent. 
 ''What everyone was horrified about in this case was how much damage could be done by one guy being in the right place at the right time,'' said Marcus Asner, one of the assistant United States attorneys prosecuting the Baptiste case.
 William Nass, Teledata's president, said his company had screened Mr. Cummings carefully before hiring him and that his previous work record had included seven years at a major bank. Mr. Nass noted that Mr. Cummings worked for Teledata for just nine months beginning in June 1999 and that most of the crimes occurred after he left the company. While Teledata has since upgraded its products and procedures to defend against similar problems, Mr. Nass said that any company is vulnerable to crafty insiders.
 Mr. Barrows agreed. ''The hardest thing to battle is the insider because no matter what you do to try and prevent it, a corrupt insider will derail that,'' he said. He added that his case against Mr. Cummings and Mr. Baptiste ''could really have gone unsolved except for fortuitous circumstances.''
 The fact that luck played such an important role in catching Mr. Cummings and Mr. Baptiste bothers critics of corporate and law enforcement efforts to battle identity theft. While they laud ambitious investigations and prosecutions like the Baptiste case, they note that such cases are rare.
 ''One of the key major problems is that prosecutors do not want to take on identity theft cases because they're so hard to prosecute,'' said Dr. Collins at Michigan State. ''We're burdened with an elephant of a law enforcement bureaucracy nationwide that makes it difficult to prevent or even mitigate identity theft.''
 President Bush recently signed into law tougher punishments for identity theft, but some law enforcement officials say that hurdles remain. They say that smaller cases are sometimes ignored or delayed until they can be bundled into high-profile, high-impact prosecutions. ''It's the simple reality of us trying to build that small case into something larger before I commit resources to it,'' said Dan Larkin, head of the F.B.I.'s Internet Crime Complaint Center. ''For me to try to build that case I'm going to need to ratchet it up a little bit.''
 Mr. Larkin said that the F.B.I. has been pushing for the last few years for greater cooperation among the bureau and state and local law enforcement agencies, and that the F.B.I. now had an ''excellent ability to plug into'' local identity theft investigations when invited. 
 For many victims, securing a police report can be an onerous, sometimes endless process. Local police departments often do not issue reports for residents if the identity theft occurred elsewhere, and most states do not require the police to do so. Yet credit issuers and reporting agencies typically demand a police report before they take a victim's claims seriously, often leaving consumers at a loss when they try to repair sullied credit histories.
 Last year, President Bush signed a law that expands consumer credit protections and also offers provisions making it simpler for consumers to resolve identity theft problems and protect their accounts. The new law, which does not take effect until Dec. 1, also aims to make it easier for consumers to get police reports when their identities have been stolen. 
 A survey released last year by Gartner Inc., a research firm specializing in information and technology issues, criticized banks, financial service firms and other pillars of the credit industry as not putting into effect more rigorous computer screening procedures to protect customer accounts. It also said that ineffective screening ultimately forced identity theft victims to bear most of the crime's social and economic costs.
 ''We've created a victim population that is self-blaming,'' said Ms. Foley of the Identity Theft Resource Center. ''Most of these problems start with companies that are too loose with consumer and employee information.''
 Some victims, after enduring the slow torture of mending their credit histories, say they know exactly whom to blame. ''My anger at my perpetrator quickly transferred to the credit-granting community itself,'' said Ms. Thomas, describing how her emotions shifted after her creditors largely ignored her efforts to overcome identity theft. ''They don't care what this does to victims because they don't have to care.''
 BANKS and others in the credit industry disagree, saying that they see the war on identity theft as a top priority. Nessa Feddis, senior federal counsel at the American Bankers Association, says fraudulent credit card charges, have been declining as a percentage of overall charges. Ms. Feddis, who was able to resolve her own past identity theft problems by placing a call to the Secret Service, says banks are ''doing a good job of educating their customers'' about identity theft and ''providing ways to assist them.''
 A spokesman for the Consumer Data Industry Association, the trade group representing credit reporting agencies, said consumers could put fraud alerts on their credit histories if they wanted to keep prying eyes at bay. Representatives of Visa and MasterCard, the two largest credit card associations in the country, say that they are guarding customer account numbers more carefully, for example, by deleting the numbers in mail and other documents delivered to customers' homes. 
 Sergio Pinon, the head of security and risk services at MasterCard, said that MasterCard was deploying computer systems that analyze the spending patterns of individual card users and pluck out anomalies in case a fraud is under way. Like Ms. Feddis, Mr. Pinon said that he was the victim of an identity thief, but that he stopped the fraud because his bank had quickly spotted an intrusion into his credit card account.
 Both MasterCard and Visa also monitor Web sites that broker stolen credit card numbers and other personal information. ''One of the things we've discovered is that your identity is worth about $10'' on the Internet, said Linda Locke, a MasterCard spokeswoman.
 With identities so cheap, experts say that criminals who want to mask themselves inside the envelope of someone else's financial world will continue to have ample opportunities to express themselves. 
 ''The only limitation to identity theft is the creativity of the thief, and that's scary because there's really no limit on creativity, is there?'' Ms. Foley said. ''The tour guides on this crazy ride are the thieves, not us and not law enforcement, and as long as that continues it's going to be a problem.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Barrows, a former F.B.I. agent, is reflected in a computer's hard drive. Mr. Barrows helped solve one of the country's biggest identity theft schemes. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Bridget J. Thomas, of Prairieville, La., said her identity was stolen and used to secure about $65,000 in loans. It took months, she said, to repair her financial records. (Photo by Michael Mohr for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Chart: ''Victims' Snapshot''Identity-theft figures April 2002 to April 2003Number of victims last year: 9.9 millionMisuse of existing accounts: 6.7New accounts and other frauds: 3.2Average cost to victims: $500Average time victims spent resolving their problems: 30 hoursWays victims' identities were used fraudulentlyPercentage of victims, 2003CREDIT CARD: 33%PHONE OR UTILITIES: 21BANK: 17EMPLOYMENT RELATED: 11GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS OR BENEFITS: 8LOAN: 6OTHER: 19(Source by Federal Trade Commission)(pg. 4)Map of United States highlighting concentration of victims by state. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INTERVIEWS (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (59%) Identity Fraud; Identity Fraud

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%) Federal Trade Commission

PERSON: Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



551 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SECURITY; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: Little Evidence of Qaeda Plot Timed to Vote

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and DON VAN NATTA Jr.; David Johnston reported from Washington for this article, and Don Van Natta Jr., from London. William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Christopher Drew and Eric Lipton from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
In early July, the Homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge, declared that credible intelligence showed Al Qaeda intended to launch a ''large-scale attack'' inside the United States to ''disrupt our democratic process.'' More than three months later, counterterrorism officials in the United States and overseas say they are still concerned, but have uncovered little specific evidence of a plot timed to the election.
 Extensive investigations into the most significant reported threat unearthed this year, a years-old Qaeda surveillance operation thought to be aimed at five financial institutions in New York, Newark and Washington, has found no sign that it had evolved into concrete operations.
 There are now doubts among intelligence officials that a group of eight men arrested in Britain last August planned to strike in the United States around the presidential election, as suspected at first. 
 And an informant on Al Qaeda, who told authorities last spring that there might be an election-season attack in the United States, has recently been discredited, the officials said. 
 In a series of interviews here and abroad over the last two months, some intelligence and counterterrorism officials say that even after the political conventions passed without incident, they still fear an undetected plot, either before or after the Nov. 2 election. Others say they suspect a plan might have existed and been disrupted or postponed. 
 ''We've undertaken a bunch of actions,'' said one senior administration official. ''We don't know whether we've disrupted them or not. We continue to consider it a very serious threat and we continue to be at a higher operational level. If Nov. 2 comes and goes and nothing happens, I am not going to sleep any better at night.''
 But there are also those, especially abroad, who question the information and analyses relied on by Mr. Ridge and other senior Bush administration officials in their repeated public warnings of an election-year terror threat.
 ''I've seen some analytical pieces from the bureau and the agency,'' said one senior American counterintelligence official, referring to election threat reports by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency. ''On a scale of one to a hundred, I'd give it about a two.''
 But three top national security officials said that the intelligence seemed persuasive, and was backed up by specific and credible sources providing a reasonable basis for warnings. Those sources, they said, included informants with an inside knowledge of Al Qaeda, captured Qaeda operatives, intercepted communications and material taken from computer hard drives and discs.
 In May, July and August, law enforcement and homeland security officials made high-profile announcements that traced a trajectory of rising alarm about a possible attack timed to the election season. But an intense international search for more clues has left investigators empty-handed.
 Each of the nearly two dozen American and European officials interviewed for this article said that Al Qaeda remained an extremely serious threat. All of the officials refused to be named because they were discussing classified information. Each is directly involved in national security or counterterrorism and is regularly briefed on terrorism developments.
 To varying degrees, these counterterrorism officials expressed doubts that Al Qaeda has had a fixed target date related to the elections. Several of them said that past terror attacks by Al Qaeda suggested that the bin Laden network typically struck when its chances of success appeared greatest, with little regard to the political calendar.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Ridge held to this view. ''I would say that, at least from Homeland Security's perspective, a date or a time line is important, but they operate I think, at the end of the day, whenever they're ready,'' he said. ''Whenever they feel they can execute successfully an attack, they'll do it. If they can do it before the election, they'll do it. Will they accelerate it because the election is here? I don't know. They seem to have indicated that they will or they'd like to, whether they have the capacity to do it or not.''
 In Europe and the Middle East, senior counterterrorism officials say they have been perplexed and uneasy about the American officials' warnings. They say that last summer they had seen no evidence of an election-year threat in their own intelligence reports.
 In interviews, these officials, based in eight countries, including Britain, France, Spain, Germany, Italy and Jordan, said they had not seen a single solid piece of intelligence, like a statement of a Qaeda operative or an intercepted phone conversation, to back up the warnings.
 ''I am aware of no intelligence, nothing that shows there will be an attack before the U.S. presidential election,'' said a senior European-based counterterrorism official.
 A senior administration official said that not all intelligence is shared with every ally. American officials said they are determined not to allow any disruption of the campaign and election, but they were also concerned not to be caught off guard.
 American intelligence officials said that their thinking changed after the March 11 Madrid commuter train bombings, which occurred four days before a national election in Spain. 
 The first alert came as a surprise even to some senior American counterterrorism officials. At a joint news conference on May 27, Attorney General John Ashcroft and Director Robert S. Mueller III of the F.B.I., released the identities and photographs of seven suspected Qaeda operatives who they said ''posed a clear and present danger.'' Mr. Ashcroft said the information was corroborated by Qaeda's public statements that its preparations for an attack in the United States were ''90 percent complete.''
 A number of events might be targeted, Mr. Ashcroft said, including the G-8 economic summit in Georgia last June, the two national political conventions in Boston and New York this past summer and the Nov. 2 balloting. (The Olympics, too, were a target that passed without incident.).
 ''The Madrid railway bombings were perceived by Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda to have advanced their cause,'' Mr. Ashcroft said. ''Al Qaeda may perceive that a large-scale attack in the United States this summer or fall would lead to similar circumstances.''
 After Mr. Ashcroft's announcement, Mr. Ridge seemed surprised by the attorney general's election- season warning. Asked why the national color-coded alert level had not been raised, Mr. Ridge replied: ''There is nothing specific enough. There's not a consensus within the administration that we need to raise the threat level.''
 But on July 8, Mr. Ridge called his own news conference to announce that intelligence reports pointed to Al Qaeda's desire to strike the United States and this time he said the information pointed to an election-season attack.
 ''Credible reporting now indicates that Al Qaeda is moving forward with its plans to carry out a large-scale attack in the United States in an effort to disrupt our democratic process,'' Mr. Ridge told reporters. ''We lack precise knowledge about time, place and method of attack, but along with the C.I.A., F.B.I. and other agencies, we are actively working to gain that knowledge.'' He cited arrests made in Britain, Jordan and Italy, as well as the ongoing investigation into the Madrid train bombings.
 But once again, Mr. Ridge said that it was unnecessary to raise the national alert level. And the Justice Department dismissed news reports that its lawyers might review the law to determine whether an election could be postponed because of terror threats or an actual attack.
 At a background briefing after Mr. Ridge spoke, a senior intelligence official said the threat appeared to have been directed by Mr. bin Laden or one of his chief lieutenants like Ayman al-Zawahiri.
 European intelligence officials, though, said that they had seen no information indicating an attack against the election. ''There was a concern about the possibility of an attack, but this went back to the early spring,'' said one official. ''I believe the Americans looked at Madrid, and figured it could happen there.''
 Then, on Aug. 1, Mr. Ridge called an unusual Sunday afternoon news conference to announce that there was a ''high risk'' of a terrorist attack based on information that had been received three days earlier. Al Qaeda operatives had had under surveillance five financial buildings in Manhattan, Newark and Washington.
 This time, the national terrorist threat level was raised, but only in the three cities affected by the latest information. But the investigation of the evidence, found in computer files dating to before Sept. 11, 2001, that were seized in recent raids in Pakistan, no clear link to the elections.
 Still, investigators' conclusions that Adnan G. el-Shukrijuma, one of the seven wanted men, had participated in the surveillance of the New York Stock Exchange was a cause for continued concern, as he is still at large. Sometimes called ''Jafar the Pilot'' because it was thought that he had received flight training, a notion that law enforcement officials have come to doubt. He was born in Saudi Arabia, used to live in South Florida and is suspected of leading a terrorist cell. 
 The alerts prompted a massive response by law enforcement agencies in the affected cities. Snipers were stationed on rooftops of nearby buildings, police with bomb-sniffing dogs patrolled the building's lobbies and roadblocks in all three cities snarled traffic. In Washington, Capitol Hill police tightened security around Congress.
 The continuing investigation into the computer files, seized from Mohammed Neem Noor Khan, a Qaeda communications specialist, and Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, wanted in the 1998 embassy bombings in East Africa, led to a cell in Britain, which British police had been surreptitiously monitoring for months
 On Aug. 3, they arrested 13 people suspected of terrorist acts, including a 32-year-old British-raised Indian named Abu Elsa al-Hindi, who the authorities suspect traveled to the United States to lead the surveillance operation at the financial institutions. Eight of the 13 men remain in custody, facing charges that they had plotted to launch a terrorist attack, though prosecutors have refused to say when or where.
 Other officials familiar with the case, however, say that they now believe the men were targeting Heathrow Airport in London. At a recent briefing, a senior administration official said that the investigation into Mr. Kahn and the British cell had not found signs of an active plot, but the official suggested that Al Qaeda might have switched to other targets.
 ''If the election comes and goes without an attack, if the inauguration comes and goes with another attack, it's still not time to take a sigh of relief,'' the official said. ''Al Qaeda is patient. They are going to conduct operations when they are capable and ready to do so.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge at a July news conference. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (70%) Terrorism; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Presidential Election of 2004; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Railroads; Politics and Government; Intelligence Services

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%) Homeland Security Department; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Orgn)

PERSON: David Johnston; Don Jr Van Natta; Tom (Sec) Ridge

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Spain; Madrid (Spain); Europe; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



552 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Life'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: That Rite of Passage Called Being Fired

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of my guilty pleasures is watching ''The Apprentice.'' 
 The guilt comes from the fact that I watch it with my two sons, and I worry about the show's underlying messages.
 For example, success for women in business is inversely proportional to skirt length and directly proportional to cleavage.
 Or, screw up, even once, just a little bit, and you're fired. 
 And, after you are fired, you find a cab (without even trying, in the rain, on Fifth Avenue,) and turn up the next morning on the ''Today'' show.
 Using the show as an hourlong teaching moment, I've explained to my boys how far all this -- the short skirts and taxicabs -- is from reality. 
 I'm rethinking the message about being fired, though, because I'm learning there are a remarkable number of people out there who believe that being fired was the best thing that ever happened to them. 
 ''Even though I had to sell everything I ever owned and didn't have any income to support my son, I was suddenly free and happy,'' Lahne Mattas Curry e-mailed me about the day she lost her job in marketing back in 1999. She moved across the country to be closer to her family on the East Coast, finished her master's degree, found a job with the National Association of Social Workers and eventually tripled her income. 
 Meanwhile, she says, ''the company that fired me is now defunct.''
 Peter Shankman, too, looks back on being fired as an impetus to change his life for the better. Mr. Shankman, who is in public relations, was one of 300 employees laid off from America Online in two hours in 1996. He ''freaked out for about 20 minutes,'' he recalls, and then decided to move to New York from Virginia. He spent a year as a consultant and, on a whim, bet the rent money one day.
 ''Around the time 'Titanic' was coming out on video,'' he said, ''I had T-shirts printed up that read, 'It Sank. Get Over It.''' He sold thousands and used the profits to start his own public relations firm, Geek Factory. 
 A changing world might just be transforming being fired from a humiliation to a rite of passage. ''Equate it with divorce,'' says Harvey Mackay, a best-selling author whose latest book is ''We Got Fired! ... And It's the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Us'' (Ballantine Books, 2004). ''In the old days, it was unspeakable. Now, it happens, you cope and you move on.'' 
 Mr. Mackay says he has interviewed dozens of celebrities who clearly have not suffered in the long term from being dismissed. ''Bob Redford -- he likes to be called Bob -- told me, 'Harvey, I've been fired from every job I ever had,''' says Mr. Mackay. He describes Robert Redford's job as a ''roustabout'' at an oil refinery. He was fired for things like falling asleep in an oil tank instead of cleaning it. 
 Walt Disney, Mr. Mackay goes on to point out, was fired from a newspaper job because he didn't generate ideas. Jeffrey Katzenberg was fired by the Walt Disney Company and went on to create DreamWorks. 
 J.K. Rowling lost several secretarial jobs because she wrote stories on her office computer, then, while unemployed, completed ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.'' Donald Trump told Mr. Mackay that he was never fired. But he did rebound from a billion-dollar debt, which is similar.
 The belief that being fired can eventually lead to happiness clearly won't pay the bills for someone who has just lost their own job. But it might provide some solace. Knowing others were in her same boat certainly helped Cathy Wald, a nonfiction writer who was trying to become a novelist but having a hard time getting going. Rejection letters are the writer's version of pink slips, and Ms. Wald acquired a substantial collection. As they arrived, she found, they paralyzed her, becoming a block to the writing itself. 
 Fighting back, she began to talk about rejection, eventually posting her rejection letters on an Internet site that she created, rejectioncollection.com.
 Writers from around the world have found the site, and the sense of community was cathartic, Ms. Wald says. 
 The Web site inspired her to propose a book about rejection, ''The Resilient Writer: Tales of Rejection and Triumph From 23 Top Authors.'' It was rejected by several publishers, but eventually, Persea Books bought it and plans to publish it in 2005. Ms. Wald interviewed 26 successful authors about the subject, but as the book went to press, her editor told her that space requirements meant three of those authors had to be cut. 
 The irony was not lost on her. ''I had to write them a letter,'' she says, ''saying, 'You've been rejected from my rejection book.''' 
 If reality television is any measure, that just might make the dismissed three even more successful.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (91%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); LAYOFFS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BESTSELLERS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (63%); WRITERS (63%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: AOL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SOCIAL WORKERS (54%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Lisa Belkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



553 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: New Homes in Old Bridgeport Buildings

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
THE empty factories and bank buildings that pock Bridgeport's downtown area are regaining their dignity in a series of conversion projects expected to yield an estimated 350 housing units over the next year or so. Two loft-style projects scheduled to open next month are filling rapidly, an indicator, city officials say, that the downtown area is well positioned to benefit from the pent-up demand for affordable housing in Fairfield County.
 ''We want to capitalize on this ability to leverage private money,'' said William Finch, president of the Bridgeport Economic Development Corporation and a state senator. ''There's only so much government money you can get.'' Adding housing when city residents are saddled with a heavy property tax burden may seem counterintuitive, but Mr. Finch said loft-style housing in a busy urban setting is unlikely to attract many families with school-age children. 
 The first two projects are precursors of a long-term plan to transform the historic district along Main Street from an abandoned banking center into an arty residential neighborhood just a few blocks from the train station. The first piece of that plan is the renovation by A&F Builders of New York of the 11-story Citytrust tower and three adjoining buildings into 118 apartments. The design incorporates the original bank vaults, marble floors and other period details into 20,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space, including a 5,670-square-foot food court. 
 The retail component, which will focus on attracting restaurants, is crucial to ensuring the vibrancy of the downtown streetscape, said Nnenna Lynch, a project manager for A&F. While a local playhouse and a few restaurants are scattered around the small central green adjacent to the Citytrust building, for the most part the area is still a ''vacant canvas,'' Ms. Lynch said.
 A&F is also the selected developer for the restoration and conversion of the city-owned Arcade building, a former hotel and retail hall a block away. That project includes 23 apartments and a roof terrace. 
 Bridgeport's compact downtown area, attractive historic structures and readily accessible train and ferry service make these projects a ''no-brainer,'' Ms. Lynch said. More than half the Citytrust apartments will be one-bedroom units, she said, because ''we mainly see this as a market for young professionals who are starting out, maybe have a job in Stamford but can't pay Stamford prices.''
 The company is using a combination of new market tax credits, historic tax credits and bank loans to finance the projects, which together will cost $35 million. Public funds, including $2.2 million in state grants, account for less than 7 percent of overall financing. Demolition is likely to begin early next year, according to Ms. Lynch. 
 Mr. Finch points to the nearly finished Sterling Market Lofts project as the ''economic engine'' driving future downtown residential development. Situated in the former Read's department store at John and Broad Streets, the $14 million project consists of 61 one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments available exclusively to artists. The developer, Artspace Projects of Minneapolis, guarantees that the building will remain artists' living and work space for 80 years, ensuring a lasting arts community, Mr. Finch said.
 Rents start at $294 for an 1,100-square-foot one-bedroom unit; the highest priced unit, a 1,600-square-foot three-bedroom, rents for $995. Artspace screens applicants for artistic commitment and income eligibility, which varies by unit. The highest qualifying income level is 60 percent of median area income, or for Bridgeport roughly $31,560 a year for one person. Artspace taps a variety of tax credits and philanthropic dollars to maintain the attractive rents. 
 As of last week, 55 artists had been approved to move in when the building opens in late November. Ninety percent of the approved tenants are from Bridgeport or the surrounding area, according to Shawn Silver, asset manager for Artspace. ''I've just finished all the interviews of applicants, and I can tell you there is definite excitement among the artists about where they're going and what they're participating in,'' Mr. Silver said. ''I'd like to do another project in Bridgeport -- I see there's something big happening there.''
 First National Development is encountering similarly high demand for the 140-brick-and-beam condominiums it is carving out of the 19th-century Warnaco underwear factory just south of Main Street on Lafayette Boulevard. The original wood flooring, exposed overhead piping and eight-foot windows are a big draw for the young professionals who make up the bulk of their buyers, said Rebecca Spencer, a co-owner of the company with her husband, Garfield. 
 ''It's not to be picture-perfect,'' she said. ''It's an industrial building, and we want to maintain that feeling.'' 
 Also attractive to buyers is the unusual tax abatement plan the that Spencers negotiated with the city. For the first eight years, condo owners will pay $1 in property taxes for each square foot of condo space, with their total annual tax bill not to exceed $1,500. Condo prices start at $125,000 for a 700-square-foot studio and reach $200,000 for a 1,600-square-foot, two-level town house. Of 53 units in the first phase of construction, all but six are sold, Mrs. Spencer said. 
 The Spencers are seeking to discourage absentee investors and stabilize the development by requiring owners to live in their condominiums and prohibiting them from reselling for three years. 
 Comparable condominiums south of Bridgeport are selling at much higher prices. In South Norwalk, for example, two-bedroom loft condominiums start in the high $200,000 range, said Joanne Cerreta, a sales associate for William Pitt, the agency handling the Lafayette lofts.
 Battered by job losses, crime and political scandals over the past decade, Bridgeport has struggled mightily in recent years to change negative perceptions about its livability. The opening of the Ballpark at Harbor Yard and an arena for concerts and sports have helped to lure suburbanites back to the city center in recent years. City officials are hoping that state and federal funds will eventually become available for a new intermodal transportation center with the former Mechanics and Farmers Bank building on Main Street serving as a grand gateway.
 ''I definitely get a sense that there's some momentum building,'' said Wendy Holmes, a vice president at Artspace. ''There are definitely signs of rebirth, however slow. Adding the retail part at this point, however, is critical.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: APARTMENTS ON MAIN STREET -- A&F Builders has been selected to create apartments in the former Arcade Hotel and in the 11-story Citytrust tower and three adjoining buildings. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TRAINS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); FERRIES (50%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Historic Buildings and Sites; Factories and Industrial Plants; Housing

PERSON: Lisa Prevost

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Bridgeport (Conn); Fairfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



554 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2391 words

HEADLINE: If Bill W. Were Alive Today . . .

BYLINE: By ALICE KENNY

DATELINE: Bedford Hills 

 BODY:
IT seems somehow fitting that Westchester, the geographic inspiration for John Cheever's fiction -- with its endless rounds of cocktails consumed by alcoholic characters in denial -- should also be the birthplace of Alcoholics Anonymous. 
 The homey, secluded Dutch colonial on the Bedford Hills-Katonah border where Bill Wilson, better known as Bill W., wrote A.A.'s ''Big Book'' in 1939 was officially declared a historic site by Gov. George E. Pataki last April. 
 It was here that Mr. Wilson moved after forswearing alcohol -- here where he focused his energies on the words that might help others stop drinking. With its cigarette-scarred oak desk, worn leather chair and chipped enamel-topped kitchen table, the place attests to the staying power of the writer's central epiphany: that people like himself, and his friend and fellow A.A. founder, Robert Smith (also known as Dr. Bob), were powerless against alcohol unless they sought outside help. 
 ''The reason Alcoholics Anonymous is so successful is because the basic tenets have not changed,'' said Eileen Giuliani, director of the Stepping Stones Foundation, which maintains the house and documents of Mr. Wilson and his wife, Lois. 
 During a recent interview at the site, Ms. Giuliani emphasized the abiding power of the A.A. mystique, pointing to Mr. Wilson's desk and saying, ''I've seen visitors, grown men, sit at that desk and start to sob.'' 
 Still, when it comes to awareness, understanding and treatment of alcoholism, the landscape has been transfigured since the founding of the movement, which will be 70 next year. As if to mark the milestone, the original ''Big Book,'' which for some A.A. devotees has taken on the aura of a holy relic, was sold at auction over the summer, for $1.4 million, to a private buyer in California. Officially titled ''Alcoholics Anonymous,'' it has been translated into 49 languages. Nearly 24 million copies have been sold in English alone. 
 If they were around today, pioneers like Bill W. and Dr. Bob might be surprised by the extent of openness on a subject that in the 1930's was more or less viewed as shameful. That candor has grown out of an acceptance of alcoholism as a disease, with a course often dictated by the genes. 
 Detailing the importance of genetic factors, Dr. Hugh Cummings, chief of chemical dependency at St. Vincent's Hospital Westchester, explained the risks this way: In those not predisposed, it may take at least a decade of hard drinking before alcohol addiction sets in. But with the ''huge genetic component to alcohol abuse disorders,'' Dr. Cummings said, ''I've seen children who start drinking at 13 and by 17 develop a dependence.'' 
 Being female increases predisposition, he explained, because women have ''more fat and a thinner lining of the gut, meaning their bodies can't process alcohol as well.'' Ethnicity is a factor, too. Alcoholism rates among Native Americans, for instance, are nearly double those of most other ethnic groups, because their bodies lack certain enzymes that help process alcohol, he said. 
 A.A.'s founders might also find surprises if they attended meetings today. When the organization began, middle-aged and elderly men made up most of its membership. Today, nearly one-third are women. 
 And increasing numbers are teenagers. Alcohol is widely held to be the most popular drug among teenagers, consumed more frequently than all other illicit drugs combined. One expert, Joan Bonsignore, Westchester president of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, recently described the county as ''flooded with alcoholism and alcoholic teens.'' 
 Nearly a third of high school students here say they binge drink at least once a month, according to National Council statistics. Moreover, there is strong anecdotal evidence that students are starting younger -- especially in wealthy, high-pressure communities like Westchester. Hinting at the continued relevance of Cheever's work, Ms. Bonsignore said of the problem, ''The wealthier the people, the more it's available and the more it's concealed.''
 As Marcellus Lessane, Bronxville High School assistant principal, put it: ''When eighth graders leave middle school for high school, they want to be big -- be part of the high school -- and they can be led astray. I'm not naive to think kids aren't partying on the weekends.''
 Those kinds of parties, in Bronxville and elsewhere in Westchester, have generated a two-pronged approach that would most likely be another jolt to the fathers of A.A.: School districts throughout the county now offer alcoholism prevention training to students as early as middle school, and the district attorney's office has orchestrated a series of ''stings,'' attacking the problem by making a spectacle of under-age arrests.
 In tandem with these tactics, however, Bill W. and Dr. Bob would doubtless be heartened to see their methodology still being widely practiced (although there are at least three new advocacy groups that seek to further destigmatize alcoholism by urging its victims to shed their anonymity). 
 RASPY-VOICED Laurie, 49, stood before an audience of serious drinkers and their families on a steamy night a few months ago. This was an anniversary celebration for the group meeting in an upstairs room of the Presbyterian Church of Mount Kisco. 
 Laurie was the guest speaker. Her father, Jack, 74, was in the audience of about a hundred. The night marked his 35th year of sobriety. Laurie joined Alcoholics Anonymous 6 years after him, at 20. 
 She started drinking as a high school freshman, sipping beer at a friend's party, she told the group. By the time she was a senior, she was guzzling gin from the bottle. 
 ''I didn't know how to live my life without a drink,'' she said. ''I'd black out, then wake up and think, 'I did it again,' and I didn't want to do it again. I was tired of waking up under a ceiling I did not recognize.''
 Jack grimaced. Now a semiretired lawyer with snow-white hair, he was 5 when Bill W. founded Alcoholics Anonymous. Back then, Jack's father, grandfather and uncles were clueless about how to break the chains of an addiction that had enslaved their family for generations. 
 Alcoholism has continued to plague their family -- though now at least they feel they have a weapon to fight it. Jack's sons, John, Greg and Kevin, like Laurie, all followed in his footsteps as straight-booze-drinkers. 
 That put them on the fast track to addiction. As Dr. Cummings puts it: ''The potency of the beverage you consume and how you consume it adds to your risk. Drinking whisky without food is definitely going to get you down the road to alcohol dependency quicker than drinking wine with dinner.''
 When it was his turn at the podium, Jack began: ''I went four for four: I'm Irish; my wife's Native American; our children didn't have a chance.'' He was alluding to the disproportionately high number of alcoholics in these ethnic groups. ''But if Alcoholics Anonymous existed 600 years ago, forget Great Britain; we'd all be living in Great Ireland.''
 The audience chuckled.
 A night at an A.A. meeting is part confessional, part stand-up comedy. 
 ''There's something about the camaraderie in A.A., being lost at sea and finally getting together with people we know have the same problem,'' Laurie said. ''We don't take ourselves so seriously. We can laugh at tragedies.''
 ALCOHOLICS who follow this treatment still walk through 12 steps toward sobriety. They start by accepting that without help they are powerless against alcohol. (The organization also steadfastly maintains 12 traditions. One of them, ''we need always maintain personal anonymity at the level of press, radio, and films,'' prohibits Laurie, Jack and their family from having their last name and identifying photo used in this article.)
 There are groups in Westchester for mothers meeting midday with room for toddlers to play. There are groups for gays, groups for teenagers, groups for college students and even a group for the hearing-impaired. 
 Most people can sip a drink, then stop. But for 13 percent of the population, this internal trigger seems to malfunction, pushing people to drink long past the point when they become drunk. 
 ''People in A.A. tend to look at a person that nurses a drink, then puts it down with half the drink left as foreign,'' said Anne, Laurie's sister-in-law. ''When alcoholics drink, we drink until the drink's all gone, until we pass out or there's no booze left. From the moment I had my first drink, I never drank normally. It was never a take-it-or-leave-it proposition.'' 
 Anne, now 42, first tasted alcohol when she was 11. Her trick was to volunteer for dish duty, then sneak the leftover wine. Soon, she says, she began downing a bottle of Jack Daniel's a night. By the time she turned 17, still too young to drink legally, she joined Alcoholics Anonymous.
 ''I was blacking out, finding out I'd done something outrageous the night before,'' Anne said. ''I saw glimpses of my father in myself and said 'uh, oh.''' Anne -- like her husband, John, and like Laurie -- grew up in Westchester in a family of alcoholics.
 Later, at an Ossining diner, John washed down chili with a Diet Coke. He was talking about the childhood he had lost to his father's alcoholism and the adult years he had lost to his own. 
 ''My dad was drunk until I turned 15,'' said John, 51, adding ruefully that his father's sobriety at that point had not quelled his own anger. ''I still had all these issues,'' John added, his blue-gray eyes sad and unblinking. ''Why didn't he sign me up for baseball in seventh grade? Then he starts going to all these meetings and he's still not around for me.''
 By the time Jack joined Alcoholics Anonymous, John had already started drinking. 
 When John finally stopped, at age 31, the world seemed to have moved on without him. ''Sometimes you feel like you're six steps back from where you should have been because of alcoholism,'' John said. ''When I stopped drinking I was an adult, but I still felt like a kid. I missed growing up when I should have.''
 Without alcohol to numb him, Jack had to face emotions head-on. He had to learn to make small talk with strangers without a drink to ease his discomfort. And he had to face up to the problems in his life: Although he had a law degree, by this point he was unemployed, homeless and separated from his first wife.
 None of that was what made him stop, though. ''I stopped drinking,'' John said, ''because I was terrified I was going to die.''
 He knew the statistics. Alcoholics die young from cirrhosis of the liver, heart disease, brain damage, cancer, malnutrition and -- most frequently -- accidents. 
 ''Alcohol is a toxin, so there's no organ in the body that's immune,'' said Dr. Peter Rostenberg, a New Fairfield doctor who specializes in alcohol treatment. He added that an estimated one-third of adults in the hospital are there because of alcohol-related accidents.
 John credits his survival to Alcoholics Anonymous. The organization paired him with a sponsor, a recovered alcoholic, who encouraged John enough that he attended 90 meetings during his first 90 days of membership.
 He also doled out some advice: Take your time before jumping into a new relationship, and apologize to everyone you hurt during your years drinking.
 ''At first,'' John acknowledged, ''I felt like I'd joined a cult.'' 
 But he followed the advice. He stopped drinking. And four years later, he married Anne. His father was best man.
 ''With the alcoholism that ran rampant through my family in past generations,'' he concluded, ''it's amazing anyone was able to survive. But I don't feel cursed; I almost feel blessed. It's rare that people get a second chance at life.''
 IT has been decades since John and most of his family were caught up in drinking, but they cannot rest easy. He and Anne know that their children, now 11 and 13, are at a vulnerable spot. They know that their own victories against alcohol, achieved before their children were born, do not automatically ensure protection to future generations. 
 ''If I told my children that our family has a lethal allergy to strawberries so they should never taste a strawberry, they wouldn't,'' Anne said. ''But when it comes to alcohol, it's different. There's peer pressure; everyone's drinking. It would be virtually a miracle if both our children never touched the stuff.''
 As for Laurie, she says her middle child, now 20, is a raging alcoholic. 
 ''My son never saw his father or me drunk,'' Laurie said. ''Yet, when he picked up his first drink, he was off to the races.''
 Whether nature or nurture is to blame doesn't really matter, she said. 
 ''I hope that someday we can break the cycle.''

Why Anonymous, Anyway?
 FRIENDS AND VOICES OF RECOVERY is one of at least three new groups that say they are unconvinced of the value of remaining anonymous as an alcoholic.
 The issue remains a concern among alcoholics, many of whom may fear compromising their careers and reputations by publicly acknowledging dependence.
 The Friends group, on the other hand, sees publicity as the key to destigmatizing recovery and, ultimately, improving treatment methods. Members say they view the group as a supplement to, not a substitute for, Alcoholics Anonymous. 
 ''Our role is to let the outside world know that people do recover, what they look like and how they do it,'' said Deirdre Drohan Forbes, a Hastings-on-Hudson resident who heads the group's Westchester chapter. ''By coming out publicly, we let people know alcoholism can be conquered. Unless it's seen as a conquerable illness, the discrimination and stigma will remain.''
 The Westchester branch, which has 30 members so far, began meeting last month. It is sponsored by a wider advocacy group called the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence. Members lobby for improved insurance coverage, research and treatment for alcoholism. They address audiences at schools and clubs.
 Although most Friends and Voices of Recovery members are also members of Alcoholics Anonymous, they do not mention how or where they found help, respecting A.A.'s principle. 
 For more information: Friends and Voices of Recovery, Westchester,dforbes@tforbes.com, (914) 478-3676
 National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence/Westchester Inc., www.NCADD.info/, (914) 949-8500. ALICE KENNY


GRAPHIC: Photos: Now a historic site, Stepping Stones is the northern Westchester house where Bill Wilson wrote Alcoholics Anonymous's ''Big Book.'' Top: A family gathers for a support session. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Several generations of the above Westchester family have used A.A. in their battles against alcohol. Left, the kitchen table that Bill Wilson took with him to Stepping Stones from Brooklyn, as a reminder of the time he pushed aside the liquor bottles forever. Mr. Wilson wrote the Big Book at the oak desk below left, and it bears the evidence in the form of cigarette burns. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (84%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AUCTIONS (67%) Alcohol Abuse; Books and Literature; Historic Buildings and Sites; Stepping Stones (Bedford Hills, NY)

ORGANIZATION: Alcoholics Anonymous; Stepping Stones Foundation

PERSON: Eileen Giuliani; Bill Wilson; Alice Kenny

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) Bedford Hills (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



555 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Heavy Hitter for Minority Businesses

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON 

 BODY:
WHEN Robin L. Douglas gets a call here at the offices of the African-American Chamber of Commerce of Westchester and Rockland Counties, often the voice on the other end of the line sounds worried. 
 The cause of the concern? ''The economy, of course,'' said Ms. Douglas, president and founder of the eight-year-old chamber. ''In particular, they want to know what's happening for small business.'' 
 And dealing with small businesses is one of the organization's aims. As with other African-American chambers, Ms. Douglas said, this group's primary focus is on commercial, financial and civic issues. In effect it acts as public relations counselor; legislative representative at the local, state and national levels; and information bureau. The primary goal, she said, is to advocate for local African-American-owned businesses through the group's governmental affairs division, and to keep members aware of new concerns through its newsletter, The Entrepreneur.
 Although economic worries have focused increasingly on the presidential election in recent weeks, the chamber is usually nonpartisan, Ms. Douglas said. ''It's a matter of whichever side can deliver to the minority business entrepreneur,'' she explained. ''Lately small business hasn't been a friend of the current Administration, because it's become too difficult for us to borrow money. So black Democrats and Republicans are both worried.''
 Of the organization's 325 members, she said, about 60 percent say they are Democrats and 40 percent, Republicans. But in the weeks leading up to the election, even some staunch Republicans, like Chuck Smith of Mount Vernon, a chamber member and area vice president of the Westchester County Black Republican Council, are furrowing their brows. 
 ''Up until now, the candidates have been focused mostly on war and terrorism,'' said Mr. Smith, who is also member of the Republican National Committee and chairman of the Harlem Republican Club.
 ''We all need to hear more about what's happening at home with the economy,'' he said at a chamber meeting on Oct. 13, when members and guests gathered at a reception and supper and then watched the presidential debate on television. ''The emphasis has to shift, and we're waiting for some answers.''
 Before the debate, the reception -- held at the First Presbyterian Church here and co-sponsored by the Black Democrats of Westchester and the Black Republicans of Westchester -- drew about 30 people.
 Besides Mr. Smith, others at the meeting included Mayor Ernest D. Davis of Mount Vernon and State Assemblyman James Gary Pretlow, a Democrat from Mount Vernon. Also There was also Phyllis Jenkins, a crisis counselor with the Jewish Board of Family and Children Services in Hawthorne, who said she was not a chamber member but wanted to network with other minority professionals; Leigh Burton Acevedo, a chamber member and real estate sales agent with Century 21 Wolff; and Saundra Barnes, who works for the Stroke of Hope Foundation, a nonprofit health advocacy group in Yonkers. Ms. Barnes said she had not yet decided who would get her vote. ''I'm waiting until I go into the booth to decide.'' 
 Bringing together its members, community and political leaders and other interested groups the way it did for the presidential debate reception isn't unusual for the chamber. The group also conducts educational seminars and workshops, offering members information on financial planning, marketing and business management.
 One of its most popular workshops has been a seminar on ''Learning How to Procure Metropolitan Transit Authority and Government Contracts,'' which is designed to help businesses owned by women and minorities learn how to compete successfully for contracts with the transit authority and other agencies. The chamber reports that 76 percent of those taking the course indeed procure contracts with the M.T.A. 
 One member who attended the contracts workshop, Monica Jones, founder and president of 3D Studios, a White Plains communications and graphic design business, said that she learned ''more than just the how-to's,'' adding, ''I also learned how to make contacts and how to get to them.'' 
 Ms. Jones said she considered joining the Business Council of Westchester, formerly called the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, but instead chose the African-American organization because it focused more on business issues specifically related to African-Americans.
 ''I'd get lost in a bigger group that has no special interest in minorities,'' Ms. Jones said. ''With the black chamber, I get more hand-holding, which is very helpful.''
 BOTH Ms. Jones and Ms. Douglas contended that county government did not do enough for minority businesses. ''They woo us at election time,'' Ms. Douglas said. ''We're given promises and hope, but when it comes time to actually get contracts, there is not a real process in place with specific goals and objectives.''
 Susan Tolchin, chief adviser to County Executive Andrew J. Spano, countered that the county does address minority business issues. Among other things, she said, the county gives the African-American Chamber of Commerce $28,000 a year, sponsors seminars to help minority businesses get county and state contracts and allocates $50,000 a year to help minority women start and maintain their own businesses through the Women's Enterprise Fund. 
 For Ms. Douglas running the chamber is a full-time job, although she manages to operate a small events-marketing firm, Unforgettable Moments, as well. She became interested in setting up the chamber because she found that in states with strong black business opportunities, like Georgia, Tennessee and Texas, there were also a number of black chambers of commerce. ''I also noticed that the black chambers were active in Black Enterprise magazine's list of 10 top places for blacks to live and grow their businesses,'' she said. 
 The chamber has found its members throughout the two counties it serves -- with 85 percent living in the central and southern part of Westchester. It also maintains an office in Spring Valley in Rockland County. Anyone is eligible to join the chamber, Ms. Douglas said, and about 15 percent of members are white, about 2 percent have Hispanic surnames, and the rest are African-American. The average age of the members is 50, she said, and the chamber includes lawyers, accountants, financial service advisers and small-business owners.
 Operating on an annual budget of $485,000, the chamber, besides Ms. Douglas, employs a full-time staff member and a part-time administrative assistant. Membership is $85 a year for an individual; small businesses, $175; and corporations, $1,000. With each type of membership, the services vary; for example, a small-business member is entitled to some discounts on educational seminars. Every two months, the chamber issues its free newsletter, which is also available online. Its Web site is www.africanamericanchamberofcommercenys.org.
 The chamber has also been the host of golf tournaments at the Doral Arrowwood Resort and Conference Center in Rye Brook, as a way of providing networking opportunities for chamber members.
 Despite the hours involved in developing the chamber and the struggles to finance it, Ms. Douglas said that when a member like Ms. Jones, the graphics company president, gets a contract with a major corporation, ''it makes everything worthwhile, and I know I'm achieving the goals I've set.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Best, above right, and Cicely Greaves-Vega attend a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Westchester and Rockland Counties held on the night of the third presidential debate. Left: Mayor Ernest D. Davis of Mount Vernon, speaking at the meeting. Chuck Smith, a chamber member, was in the audience. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FAMILY SERVICES (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); TERRORISM (50%) Small Business; Blacks; Chambers of Commerce

PERSON: Elsa Brenner; Robin Douglas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Westchester County (NY); Rockland County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



556 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: When Are Two Villages Better Than One?

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

 BODY:
RESIDENTS and officials of two Westchester County communities are immersed in considering reorganization of local government -- one an experiment in fusion, the other in fission. 
 In Pelham and Pelham Manor, village representatives are looking into consolidating some services, while in Edgemont, an unincorporated area in the Town of Greenburgh, residents are studying the possibility of creating a new village -- in effect, the 46th municipality in the county. 
 Local government in Westchester includes ''a lot of overlap and waste, with a hodgepodge of government entities all serving the same square mile,'' said Randolph McLaughlin, a Pace law professor who specializes in the study of municipal government. 
 But consolidation ''is not as easy as erasing a line on a map,'' he added, ''because people have intense loyalty to villages and villages have identities.''
 Likewise, he pointed out, separation can have its pitfalls: although smaller government is often better government, ''sometimes too small is too small.'' 
 Discussions about consolidating some police and fire services in the Pelhams have begun on a cautious note. Representatives from each side met once to discuss the issue, early in October, and they have another session planned in several weeks, although they do not yet have concrete proposals to offer. 
 ''The Pelhams are kind of like Siamese twins,'' said Michael J. Clain, mayor of the Village of Pelham. ''People always wonder, 'Wouldn't it be less confusing if there were one town and one village?''' said Mr. Clain, admitting that only insiders can really tell the difference between the villages. 
 ''The Pelhams share a school district, a recreation program, a library, a court system and assessments,'' he said, although each village has its own police, fire and public works departments, as well as zoning and land-use boards.
 Though in the preliminary stages, the merger plan has already generated a flurry of letters in the local press.
 In early October, Mr. Clain wrote in The Pelham Weekly that ''a town that covers just two square miles and has 4,200 households'' may not need two separate police and fire departments.
 You might think that he had recommended a merger between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox.
 His suggestion prompted a spate of largely cautionary responses, most prominently from Lorri Gorman, a former Pelham Manor trustee. In a detailed five-point response in the same forum, she made the case that a union would not prove economically advantageous for residents of Pelham Manor, which has higher assessed values than Pelham and no outstanding village debt, unlike Pelham.
 Mayor Stephen G. Rooney, of Pelham Manor, was also somewhat doubtful.
 It may seem logical, he said, to combine two small villages that share a name, as well as extremely high property taxes, but such a plan would result in minimal tax savings for Pelham Manor. 
 Even so, Mr. Rooney said, he supports an effort to consolidate purchasing and staffing for the two police and fire departments, if it will mitigate the tax burden. 
 No amount of cutting, however, will ultimately make much of a dent in the taxes of either village, Mr. Rooney pointed out, because ''running a first-class school system is expensive.'' 
 In addition, he said, the town's proximity to the Bronx, Mount Vernon and New Rochelle means that ''we have serious policing and fire needs.'' For this reason, Pelham Village's police department consists of 27 police officers, Pelham Manor's 28. 
 Although the Town of Pelham now comprises the two villages, three were incorporated there during the 1890's. In 1975, the Village of North Pelham merged with the Village of Pelham, according to Blake A. Bell, deputy historian of the town and historian for Pelham Village.
 Although the three villages were only one or two miles apart, during the early part of the 20th century it took quite some time to travel by wagon from one to the next, so it made sense having three, said Mr. Bell, who lives in Pelham Manor.
 ''There's no reason there has to be two villages,'' he said, ''but they developed as a function of history. When you look at it now, at all the infrastructure and governance, it makes sense to unweave what has been and to have a single town.''
 It is unclear how many Pelham residents would agree. 
 Mr. Clain said he thought Ms. Gorman's detailed letter about the disadvantages of a merger ''jumped the gun,'' as the two villages are far from having an understanding about how, if at all, such an arrangement would be carried out.
 Mr. Clain, for his part, responded at length to Ms. Gorman's financial analysis of a possible merger, arguing in the paper that her assumptions were false and that it was possible very little property tax change might result in either village. He invited Mr. Rooney to meet and discuss ''the potential impact consolidation of services may have on taxpayers in both villages.''
 Mr. Clain, admitting that there was intense pressure in his village to rein in soaring property taxes, said, ''I think, frankly, that sooner or later we're going be merged.'' But he added that he didn't know if that would happen ''in a few years, or in 50 years.''
 In Edgemont, an unincorporated area in the Town of Greenburgh just two square miles in size, the issues are the mirror opposite of the Pelhams'. Edgemont residents there have begun to investigate the possibility of incorporation, even though they have nothing in the way of infrastructure beyond a school system: no postal address, library, recreation department, police or fire department or elected officials.
 ''A number of people are unhappy with how Edgemont is being treated by Greenburgh,'' said Mark Rosenblatt, who is leading a group of people he called ''disgruntled residents'' in studying ''the financial feasibility of creating a village.''
 ''Villages have a lot of benefits over a town, because they have control over their destiny in planning and zoning, and in their ability to buy land for parks,'' Mr. Rosenblatt said. Because land is so expensive in Edgemont, he said, Greenburgh has not built any parks there in the last 50 years.
 Within the next few months, he added, his group will present their conclusions to the community ''for people to shoot at.''
 ''Government closer to the people is more effective government,'' agreed James F. Lasser, a member of the group who ran against Paul J. Feiner last year in the race for town supervisor. 
 If Edgemont had its own village, ''we could have our own library,'' Mr. Lasser said, and the sidewalks would be in better repair and cleared of ice in winter.
 But Mr. Feiner says the village incorporation idea, which has been floating around for about a year, is politically motivated; he says Mr. Lasser is resentful of having lost the election. ''I see very little support from the community for incorporation,'' Mr. Feiner said.
 Taxes in Edgemont are now comparable to tax levels in other Greenburgh villages, like Irvington, Dobbs Ferry, and Hastings, according to Gerry Iagallo, the town assessor. But those taxes would almost certainly increase if the area were to become a village -- and, Mr. Feiner predicts, ''the level of services would be less than what they are getting now.''
 If Mr. Rosenblatt's committee ultimately concludes that incorporation would be advantageous, New York State law requires that a petition favoring the plan be signed by 20 percent of residents, or owners of more than half of the area's assessed valuation, according to Lester D. Steinman, director of the Edwin G. Michaelian Municipal Law Resource Center at Pace Law School in White Plains.
 The petition would then be filed with the Greenburgh town supervisor, who would have 40 days to verify the signatures. A vote on the proposition would then occur, said Mr. Steinman, who has advised Edgemont residents about the process.
 The cost of becoming a village is impossible to determine without careful study, he explained. 
 But ''I'm pretty content with saying it's not going to be free.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Stephen G. Rooney of Pelham Manor, left, visiting his counterpart, Michael J. Clain of Pelham, at Pelham's Village Hall. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ZONING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); POLITICS (72%); BASEBALL (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%) Politics and Government

PERSON: Carin Rubenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Pelham (NY); Pelham Manor (NY); Greenburgh (NY); Edgemont (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



557 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; UP FRONT: WORTH NOTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: The Thing About Tourism Is It Attracts Visitors

BYLINE: By Josh Benson

 BODY:
Seeking perhaps to capitalize on the lowered expectations in the closing days of his term, Governor McGreevey's office issued a news release last week stating that he would be making a ''significant'' announcement about tourism.
 The big announcement, delivered the next day at a tourism summit in Wildwood: the New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission will henceforth be known as the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission. 
Furthermore, its mission statement will now officially include -- tourism. 
 Lest the significance of the development be lost, the governor offered the following explanation: ''By adding tourism to the name of the commission we are sending a message about its importance -- a message that will change the way tourism is prioritized within state government and that affords tourism the prominence it deserves.'' Josh Benson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%) Travel and Vacations; Names, Organizational

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission; New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



558 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: DATA FLOW

BYLINE: By Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
On Friday, the Commerce Department will issue a report on the gross domestic product for the third quarter, and the stock market is expecting a robust performance.
 The consensus among Wall Street economists is that the economy grew at an annualized rate of 4.3 percent in the quarter, up from 3.3 percent in the previous period, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. 
 A relatively high number may bolster the White House's position that the economy is taking off. A low number may provide grist for the Kerry camp, which says that the economy has faltered because of the burdens of fiscal and trade deficits and the war in Iraq.
 Another clue about the state of the economy will come on Monday. Sales of existing homes in September are expected to come in at a brisk, annualized rate of 6.5 million, thanks to low interest rates and soaring home prices. Jeff Sommer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); BONDS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); INTEREST RATES (71%); HOME PRICES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



559 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2188 words

HEADLINE: Woody Allen on George S. Kaufman

BYLINE: By Woody Allen

 BODY:

KAUFMAN & CO.
Broadway Comedies.
By George S. Kaufman
with Edna Ferber,
Moss Hart,
Ring Lardner and
Morrie Ryskind.
911 pp.
Library of America. $35.
 A collection of comic writing by S. J. Perelman boasted on its jacket an introduction by Al Hirschfeld, followed by an appreciation by George S. Kaufman. Hirschfeld began with a few charming, laudatory paragraphs about his close pal, the great humorist Sid Perelman. Then came the heading titled: ''An Appreciation of S. J. Perelman by George S. Kaufman.'' The page was blank save for one sentence that read: ''I appreciate S. J. Perelman. Signed, George S. Kaufman.''
 That is pretty much the substance of what I feel about Kaufman. My appreciation (which was actually idolization) first blinked at the light when I was about 8 years old. There was something in our public school called a ''library period,'' in which we were taught exactly how to use a library, and then we were expected to take out a book, read it and report on the chosen volume. Less than stimulated by the romance of the Dewey Decimal System and born lazy, I made for the smallest book I could find in the stacks, which by sheer chance was something called ''Six Plays by Kaufman and Hart.'' I had never heard of either Kaufman or Hart, never heard of their plays or any plays for that matter, except for the leaden treacle we were forced to sit through at holiday time, extolling Pilgrims or Maccabees. (In today's Hollywood the blockbuster would be ''The Pilgrims Versus the Maccabees.'') Still, the school was run like a penal colony, and wanting to stave off punishment I thumbed the text of the collection when my eyes eventually hit on something called ''You Can't Take It With You.'' The title drew my attention simply because that was a phrase used by my father to defend the inevitable results of his numbers habit. The first scene began with a stage direction that read: ''The home of Martin Vanderhof -- just around the corner from Columbia University, but don't go looking for it.''
 As a boy of 8, force-fed the above-mentioned one-acters about George Washington's cherry tree or how Christopher Columbus outfoxed the flat-earth mavens, I found this stage direction refreshing, and so I delved deeper. I soon discovered myself immersed in what could be called (however trivial the life) a life-changing experience. Not only was the play truly funny and imaginative, but the agglomeration of hilarious oddballs cohabiting in surreal chaos was enormously warming and magical. My own household, while not populated by quite as colorful eccentrics as crammed the Vanderhof home, still sported a fairly combustible farrago of aunts, uncles, parents, grandparents, cousins, all hunkered down in the same flat, pooling ingenuity against the Depression. The play captured our bedlam deliriously. 
 Hooked by the jokes, I read and reread ''You Can't Take It With You,'' and its delightful cartoon lunacy never left my system. Its influence is painfully obvious in my first hapless attempt at theater, ''Don't Drink the Water,'' which I labored over endlessly. Kaufman and Hart, on the other hand, took just a few weeks in 1936 to write their Pulitzer Prize-winning bauble, and one can see why, given the comic richness of the idea (and Kaufman's grasp of technique, which was formidable). I was relieved as a young writer to learn that ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' (1939), another splendid comedy of theirs, in which the basic premise is delightful but less plot- and more character-driven, took months of hard labor before the two playwrights could contrive a sustaining story line.
 Enchanted, as I got older I resolved that I would one day try to write comedies for the theater, and George S. Kaufman became an immediate role model. In retrospect it would seem it could as readily have been Moss Hart, who actually receives top billing on ''You Can't Take It With You.'' (Kaufman made it a rule that whoever came up with the original idea would be first billed.) That it was Kaufman I glommed onto was probably because he was a more visible presence. It was his name that invariably appeared not just on Hart's work but on many another gifted comic playwright's sparkling hit. As sampled in the Library of America's ''Kaufman & Co.,'' a collection of nine plays written with Morrie Ryskind, Edna Ferber, Ring Lardner or Hart, it seemed every important comedy involved Kaufman in some capacity, either as writer, director or play doctor (in which he sometimes quietly worked behind the scenes out of town to save someone's crumbling second or third act). 
 It was also that his wonderful sour puss began showing up on television, and as I morphed lugubriously into puberty I cherished his sardonic wit. He, more than anyone, seemed to grasp how phony the world and its pompous inhabitants were, and what could be more appealing to the adolescent mind, especially one who put a big premium on the attitudes of Groucho Marx and W. C. Fields. Kaufman (1889-1961) was homely but sharp as a matzo -- a combination I could identify with because I was homely and longed to be sharp. Also Kaufman was unsentimental in a culture submerged in the gooey ichor of societal piety.
 In reality that intimidating facade was just that, a facade. From examining his written love scenes and hearing many anecdotes about him over the years (most notably in ''Act One,'' Moss Hart's great autobiography), it appears this coruscating verbal shark was actually quite sentimental and very softhearted, very generous to employees, a maker of chocolate fudge. But this side of George S. Kaufman was unknown to me when he scandalized the prissy multitudes by daring to say on TV during the Christmas season, ''Let's make this one program on which no one sings 'Silent Night.' '' You just had to love a guy like that. 
 By my late teens I had read and studied all his plays and revue sketches, which not only crackled with sophisticated Broadway wiseguy dialogue but, more important, played. The plots were beautifully structured and were very performable. For those who have never tried fabricating a two- or three-act comic play, I can tell you it takes more than just the ability to write funny, it takes real discipline and mechanical know-how. Not only did Kaufman's one-liners explode like firecrackers, but the wit was truly authentic and full of wonderful vitriol. The puns were sometimes actually amazing. (Kaufman is credited with: ''One man's Mede is another man's Persian.'')
 And the basic ideas were inspired. Example: A cantankerous urban egomaniac -- modeled after the cruelly biting Alexander Woollcott, who was the quintessence of cosmopolitan intolerance -- finds himself trapped, because of a broken leg, in a middle-class, mid-American household in Ohio. He is surrounded by small-town philistines, whose home he turns into chaos and who in turn drive him mad. Is there any better opening line to delineate a character and foreshadow a promisingly delectable situation than the one delivered by Sheridan Whiteside, The Man Who Came to Dinner? The worthy small-town folk fuss nervously, hoping to please the great public figure forced to convalesce in their honored midst. Whiteside, entering in a wheelchair, surveys his adulating hosts and says, ''I may vomit.'' Years later Blanche DuBois, upon seeing how her sister is living, says, ''I think I'm going to be sick'' and the scene ends. One can only imagine how Sheridan Whiteside would have made caustic comic history if he had been confined to the Kowalski household. 
 Over the years, the more I learned about comedy writing (not that there's much one can actually learn, but I suppose a little experience can sometimes help quell the panic) the more I appreciated George S. Kaufman. Appreciated and continued to identify with him -- our glasses, our tweed jackets, our glum mugs. And didn't he begin his career sending jokes to a Broadway columnist? (Franklin P. Adams.) Exactly how I began mine. And didn't he write, direct and even act? That was just what I wanted to do. And wasn't he an around-the-clock worker, someone who collaborated, sitting home with Edna Ferber to write even on New Year's Eve, while the square haircuts partied? How like me, I thought. To boot he came from working-class Jewish parents -- his mother, born Henrietta, was always called Nettie. My mother was Nettie too! Superficial similarities, I admit, but intoxicating in my youth. 
 Hunched over my typewriter, I struggled to write a Broadway show. Each day I'd work for hours and then take a break and stroll past Kaufman's former town house on East 62nd Street for inspiration, remembering how it was glamorously described in accounts I'd read. The master, in his bedroom, meticulously fashioning some new theatrical dazzler; then, at the termination of the day's work, he'd go downstairs where all the iconic deities of Broadway would be admitted by his wife for cocktails and the exchange of perfectly formed aphorisms. Perhaps George Gershwin would sit at the piano and play. Perhaps Noel Coward would be there. Or is that Max Gordon next to Ethel Merman? I'd pause outside the town house in a reverie, convinced I could almost hear the latest tunes of Cole Porter being tried out, and brilliant curtain lines by Ruth Gordon and Garson Kanin. Feeling invigorated, I'd scoot back to my single room and, with a burst of renewed creativity, turn out five brilliant pages for my play. Imagine how chagrined I was one day when my young wife explained to me that the Kaufmans had lived on 63rd Street, not 62nd, and I was drawing inspiration from the wrong house on the wrong block. Fortunately for the theater, the play I wrote went unproduced.
 If Kaufman held sway over a young Manhattan wannabe, he also was a dominant figure among the face cards who ruled what is now called the Golden Era of Broadway. While Hollywood at that time ground out awful and foolish films for the most part, Broadway was a more cultivated venue. Despite the occasional wonderful movie that the studio system couldn't kill, overwhelmingly the Hollywood product was mindless junk supervised by the men properly eviscerated in ''Once in a Lifetime'' (1930), Kaufman and Hart's first collaboration. During the 1920's, 30's, 40's and early 50's, Kaufman's influence could be felt all over the Great White Way. In addition to his own plays, which he staged, he directed ''The Front Page,'' a real high point of theater comedy, in 1928, and ''Guys and Dolls'' in 1950. The characters of Kitty and Packard from ''Dinner at Eight'' (1932), written by Kaufman and Ferber, inspired Billie Dawn and Harry Brock in Broadway's finest comedy, ''Born Yesterday.'' He wrote, with John P. Marquand, and staged ''The Late George Apley'' (1944), directed ''Stage Door'' (1936), written with Ferber and later made into a film with Katharine Hepburn. In drama, he staged the classic ''Of Mice and Men'' in 1937. As if all this were not impressive enough, he wrote, with Morrie Ryskind and George and Ira Gershwin, ''Of Thee I Sing'' (1931), a political satire and the first musical to win a Pulitzer Prize. He and Ryskind also wrote ''Animal Crackers'' (1928) for the Marx Brothers, which was so hilariously successful that Irving Thalberg asked Kaufman to stage the comedy scenes for ''A Night at the Opera.''
 Groucho Marx, who was not impressed by much in this world -- he told me he found it hard to keep awake at dinner at T. S. Eliot's and held a kind of reserved view of Perelman, whom I believe to be the single funniest human of my lifetime -- was in genuine awe of Kaufman. I think that was because in addition to Kaufman's comic talent, he had such a thoroughly rigorous command of stagecraft. Kaufman could work at home or late in hotel rooms under pressure and do the hard labor, the tedious, glamourless structuring and rewriting and merciless cutting that is crucial to making comedy breathe. Hart has written about Kaufman's ability to edit and pare to the bone, to throw out jokes should they dare to impede the plot -- to kill his children. Kaufman felt that while a drama could survive with a bit of slack, a comedy had to be airtight. The story is told of a playwright suffering with his opus in Philadelphia who asked Kaufman how he could improve it. Without seeing the failing play, Kaufman replied, ''Make it shorter.''
 Did Kaufman have his flops and are the plays dated? To work in the theater is to strike out as often as not. A much-quoted line of his is ''Satire is what closes on Saturday night.'' Alas, too, comedy dates, and there is plenty dated about his plays, which were fabulous in their time, although a few still hold up quite well, when blessed with a good production. Given the state of the theater -- strangled by economics, mortally devastated by the maw of television and by the financial and artistic seductiveness of film -- it is hard to imagine a comedy-writing titan like George S. Kaufman coming along to dominate the Broadway season. On the other hand, there may be a figure equal or even greater just around the corner from Columbia University -- but don't go looking for him.


GRAPHIC: Photos: George S. Kaufman (left) and Moss Hart in 1937, the year of the Pulitzer Prize for ''You Can't Take It With You.'' Below, Kaufman and his first wife, Beatrice, in Atlantic City, about 1922. (Photographs by Associated Press
collection of Anne Kaufman Schneider)Drawings (Drawings by Andre Carrilho
 Gail Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (78%); THEATER (78%) Books and Literature; Reviews; Theater

COMPANY: KAUFMAN & CO (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: Woody Allen; George S (1889-1961) Kaufman; Edna Ferber; Moss (1904-61) Hart; Ring (1885-1933) Lardner; Morrie Ryskind

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



560 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JOSEPH SIANO

 BODY:

BAVARIAN DEBUT -- The facade of the old Munich post office conceals the new Dorint Sofitel Bayerpost Munich Hotel. The five-star property will offer introductory rates of $159 a night through Dec. 31 (at $1.27 to the euro). Amenities in the 396-room hotel include two restaurants and a spa with a pool, sauna and massage. Information: (800) 763-4835 or www.sofitel.com.

YOUR CAR AWAITS -- Driving in Manhattan is tiresome, to say nothing of finding a place to park. And the subway is not that convenient if you are on a shopping expedition. Metro-Home, a service that rents studio and one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan for short stays, has put together a package with three hours' use of a limousine. The Shop Till You Drop plan requires a three-night minimum stay ($189 a night for a studio, $269 for a one-bedroom), with one three-hour limo ride. It is good Nov. 15 through Dec. 31. Apartments include fully equipped kitchens, cable TV, data ports and access to laundry facilities. Information: (800) 987-1235 or www.metro-home.com.

FREE FLIGHTS FOR KIDS -- Parents with children 12 or younger can take advantage of a deal on ski vacations from United Vacations. From Dec. 1 through Feb. 17 (excluding Dec. 19 to Jan. 2), any child meeting that age limit gets free air fare as part of a United Vacations ski package to 24 Western ski resorts. There is a limit of one child for each paying adult, and departures must be Sunday through Thursday, with return flights Monday through Friday. Sample prices: for a four-night stay at the Beaver Run Resort in Breckenridge, Colo., with air fare, a five-day Hertz midsize car rental and hotel taxes, an adult pays $784 and up (double occupancy) from the New York area. Even the kids, however, cannot escape various airport fees of up to $65, but that's all they pay. Information: (888) 328-6877 or call up www.unitedvacations.com.

ALL BETS ARE OFF -- The Renaissance Las Vegas will open Dec. 3 adjacent to the city's convention center, with 518 rooms and 30 suites a half mile from the Strip. Through Dec. 30, introductory rates of $129 a night, plus tax, will be in effect. Don't expect the jangle of slot machines and rattle of dice: the Renaissance has no casino. Among the amenities that it does have are a spa, high-speed Internet access, flat-screen televisions and WiFi-equipped meeting rooms. For information: (866) 352-3434 or www.renaissancelasvegas.com.

AN ECONOMICAL DISCOVERY -- Two can sail for the price of one (with return air fare included) on a trans-Atlantic cruise next year on the 650-passenger Discovery, operated by Discovery World Cruises. The ship leaves from Fort Lauderdale on May 2, stopping in Nassau, Bermuda and the Azores before the trip ends May 16 in Harwich, England. The two-for-one fare starts at $4,495 for both passengers and includes air fare from New York or Miami. All cabins have TV's, and the ship has three restaurants, a casino and two pools. Information: (866) 623-2689 or www.discoveryworldcruises.com. JOSEPH SIANO


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (86%); SKIING (86%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); AIR FARES (74%); TOUR PACKAGES (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); AIRPORT OPERATION (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (66%); GAMING (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (73%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (73%)

PERSON: Joseph Siano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



561 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: More Employers Tighten Ties That Bind Workers to Them

BYLINE: By ELLEN L. ROSEN

 BODY:
In a job market that is only fitfully recovering from a lengthy decline, many employers still find themselves in a buyer's market when they decide to hire. As a result, employers have more persuasive power if they ask new employees to sign agreements that bar them from working for competitors in the future, and they appear to be enforcing those agreements more aggressively. 
 There are no statistics specifically tracking the prevalence of lawsuits involving so-called noncompete agreements, but several lawyers who follow employment litigation say such cases are on the rise. Based on reports that track lawsuits nationwide, ''almost every day, in most major cities, there are cases dealing with departing employees,'' said Victoria A. Cundiff, a partner in the New York office of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker. 
 The agreements come in many forms, at many levels of seniority and in a variety of industries. And they can present serious problems if the employee wants to change companies.
 The increase in litigation is tied to the still sluggish economy, because companies are more apprehensive about ''handing over a competitive advantage to one of the few rivals still standing,'' Ms. Cundiff said. 
 Kenneth W. Taber, a partner at Pillsbury Winthrop in New York, points to another reason: ''Information is much more fluid now, and so it is easier to have key elements of your business walk out the door when people leave.''
 The lawsuits are likely to continue as the economy strengthens, because companies will be focused on retaining top executives, says Jeffrey S. Klein, a partner at Weil, Gotshal & Mangesin New York.
 The legal battles over noncompete agreements are often fast paced and bitterly fought, and sometimes involve agreements that cover very short periods. 
 In a recent lawsuit, a hip-hop disc jockey named Troi Torain, known on the air as Star, had a falling out in May 2003 with the station manager at the New York station WQHT-FM (Hot 97), which resulted in Mr. Torain's indefinite suspension with pay. His contract had 10 months remaining, and his noncompete clause ran until March 2005.
 Last October, the owner of WQHT-FM, Emmis Communications, permitted Mr. Torain to seek work in other markets, said James Cinque, Mr. Torain's lawyer, and he found a spot with a Clear Channel Communications station in Hartford. But Clear Channel wanted to bring him back to one of its five New York stations, WWPR-FM.
 Emmis sued Clear Channel and Mr. Torain, asserting that he was not free to take such a job until his noncompete agreement expired in March 2005.
 After several rounds in court, the case was settled on Oct. 7, and Mr. Torain is scheduled to return to the air in New York in January, Mr. Cinque said. An Emmis spokeswoman declined to comment on the lawsuit, as did its outside lawyer. 
 Some companies hoping to hire professionals who have noncompete agreements try to head off lawsuits by asking the old employers to release employees from the agreements.
 But such efforts are not always successful, as Mark Weikel, the former chairman of Foley's Department Store in Houston, found out. Mr. Weikel's employment agreement with the May Department Stores Company, the owner of Foley's, barred him from going to work for any competitor for two years. When Victoria's Secret, a subsidiary of Limited Brands, approached him to become chief operating officer, he said, he asked May to release him from his agreement. But according to William M. Corrigan Jr., a lawyer representing Limited Brands, May refused to release him. And when May executives learned that Victoria's Secret planned to seek court intervention, they fired him. 
 In December, the county circuit court in St. Louis, where May has its headquarters, ruled that the two retailers were not competitors, said Mr. Corrigan, a partner at Armstrong Teasdale in St. Louis. After the decision, Mr. Weikel began his new job. But May appealed, and the companies await another ruling; both declined to comment. 
 Limited Brands was willing to fight for Mr. Weikel, but Kirk Palmer, who heads his own executive search firm in New York specializing in the retail industry, says employees with such agreements typically face limited choices if they decide to change jobs. The result, he said, is that the employees ''become, in retail language, a markdown.'' 
 While the court in St. Louis ruled against May, other courts have been more sympathetic to employers. 
 Three years ago, Michael Forte, the president of Advanced Clinical Communications, a marketing firm in Lambertville, N.J., asked his senior employees to sign noncompete clauses because the company had begun working on longer-term projects for pharmaceutical and medical products companies. 
 The agreement did not prevent his employees from working for a competitor; rather, it prevented them from working on projects for a competing product. ''All members of a team have access to information,'' he said. ''That's the very reason we did what we did when we did it.'' 
 But Karol Maw, a graphic designer who had worked at the company for more than three years, had qualms about the noncompete clause. When she asked to revise it, she said, the company's human resources manager told her she could either ''sign the agreement as written or you'll have to leave the company.'' She refused to sign and, as a result, she was fired, she said, even though both she and Mr. Forte say the quality of her work was good. 
 Ms. Maw sued Advanced Clinical, asserting that her dismissal violated New Jersey's whistle-blower statute. She won in the lower courts, but in May, the state's Supreme Court ruled for her former employer. Ms. Maw moved to Naples, Fla., to become a real estate agent and live closer to her family. 
 Lawsuits over noncompete agreements can be expensive, and one industry is starting to back away from the whole issue. In the past, stockbrokers were typically forbidden to take any client information when leaving for another firm. But in a rare collaboration, three financial firms -- Merrill Lynch; the Smith Barney unit of Citigroup; and UBS -- announced in August that they would no longer prohibit brokers from taking their clients' names and contact information when departing. The new approach, first reported in The Wall Street Journal, will eliminate some legal costs, which are ''enormous,'' according to Lawrence F. Carnevale, a partner at Carter Ledyard & Milburn in New York. 
 For now, though, other industries are unlikely to follow suit, according to lawyers who specialize in employment law. Some people who sign noncompete agreements ''think they can get out of them--that they're just a formality,'' said David J. Carr, a partner in the Indianapolis law firm of Ice Miller. ''But I have to tell them the sad truth: that they're enforceable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Karol Maw, now a real estate agent in Florida, says she was fired after she refused to sign a noncompete agreement. (Photo by Michel Fortier for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LAWYERS (76%); CONTRACTS LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (62%) Labor; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (84%); PAUL HASTINGS LLP (84%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: Ellen L Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



562 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1775 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND KERRY FOCUS CAMPAIGNS ON 11 KEY STATES

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Adam Nagourney reported from Fort Myers for this article, and Katharine Q. Seelye from Washington. Richard W. Stevenson contributed reporting from St. Petersburg, Fla.

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla., Oct. 23 

 BODY:
President Bush and Senator John Kerry move into the last days of the presidential contest in agreement that the race has come down to just 11 states, and have laid out plans for a barrage of visits and television advertisements across this final battleground between now and Nov. 2.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry will spend virtually all their time -- and most of their remaining advertising budgets -- in those states, aides said, starting here in Florida, and extending as far west as Colorado and as far north as New Hampshire. [Page 24.]
 Both sides have reassigned staff out of states that once appeared competitive, like Missouri for the Democrats and Washington State for the Republicans, and scattered them across the 11 states. 
 Fittingly enough for this year, with polls showing the race deadlocked, five of the states were won by President Bush in 2000 and six by Al Gore, the Democratic candidate. And at least 7 of the 11 states are now considered tied in nightly polls being conducted by the campaigns, aides said. 
 ''Where we are is where we ended in 2000: with a limited number of states that are very, very close,'' said Matthew Dowd, a senior adviser to Mr. Bush. ''And the good news for us is more of those states are Gore states than Bush states.''
 Tad Devine, a senior Kerry adviser, disputed that assessment, arguing that Mr. Bush was struggling in two states that were the bedrock of his victory in 2000, Ohio and Florida. ''We're in enough states to win a clear and convincing victory in the Electoral College,'' Mr. Devine said.
 This geographical repositioning comes as Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have sharpened rather than blurred their differences as the race comes to a close, staking out vastly different positions on tax cuts, health care, Social Security, abortion rights and America's role in the world. In the process, the two candidates have offered one of the sharpest choices between two presidential campaigns in a generation.
 Of the 11 states on this final battleground, representing 135 of the 538 electoral votes, Mr. Bush won Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire and Ohio in 2000. Of those, analysts and aides to both campaigns say Mr. Kerry has the best chance of winning New Hampshire, Ohio and Florida, while Nevada appears least likely to turn Democratic.
 The Gore states in play are Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Of those, analysts and aides said Mr. Bush had the best chance of winning Wisconsin, Iowa and New Mexico.
 A sudden surge by Mr. Bush in Michigan, a state that Mr. Kerry thought he had put away, caught both sides by surprise, and both men scheduled last-minute trips there for next week.
 Ed Sarpolus, a pollster in Lansing, said that Mr. Kerry was paying a price for having campaigned in other parts of the country. ''He hasn't been here,'' he said.
 More than anything, Mr. Bush's aides say, his central focus over the final 10 days will be what they have always seen as his strongest suit: the fight against terrorism. Mr. Bush's advisers will attempt to command the agenda in the remaining days with an intense and grisly procession of television advertisements and attacks by Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney on the issue.
 Mr. Bush returned to the theme of terrorism during a campaign stop here in Fort Myers on Saturday, roaring into a rally in a procession of machine-gun-toting helicopters escorting Marine One as it settled, in a swirl of wind, in the middle of a field. It was a display of the power of incumbency and a reminder of a dominant theme of Mr. Bush's campaign. On television stations here this week, it was all terrorism all the time: images of the smoldering World Trade Center and Republican claims that Mr. Kerry would be weak in the face of terrorist threats. 
 ''We will basically be talking about who will win the war on terror, who will make America safer and who will lead the effort to reform our government,'' said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior adviser.
 The emphasis on terrorism is part of a calculated appeal to some female voters, who tend to be among the late deciders in a campaign, and among whom Mr. Kerry has had difficulty building the kind of support Democrats typically have.
 The president plans to conclude his campaign with an advertisement in which Mr. Bush, recounting the trauma of the nation these past three years, makes a personal appeal to be returned to office.
 Bob Shrum, a senior adviser to Mr. Kerry, said Mr. Bush had been ''reduced to a one-note-Johnny'' campaign. He said Mr. Kerry would respond by challenging Mr. Bush's management of the war in Iraq, but also promising what Mr. Kerry has called a ''fresh start'' for the country, with am emphasis on job creation and health care.
 ''John Kerry has a fundamental argument that we need a president who can defend the country and fight for the middle class,'' Mr. Shrum said. ''Bush can only talk to one half of that equation.''
 In a reflection of the rapidly changing landscape, Mr. Kerry's campaign has reassigned campaign workers once stationed in Missouri and Arizona -- two states that have slipped off the Democratic wish list -- to Iowa, New Mexico and Nevada. Mr. Bush has moved his staff out of Washington State.
 Of the 11 states, all but Nevada and Colorado were described by both sides as being effectively tied. Mr. Kerry's aides said they had a statistically significant lead in Ohio and New Hampshire as well, but Mr. Bush's advisers disputed that.
 The dynamics of the endgame are varying state by state, though the fact that 39 states are now considered firmly behind Mr. Kerry or Mr. Bush has made the challenge faced by both campaigns at least somewhat less daunting. 
 In Ohio, for example, aides to both men said the outcome was likely to be driven by concerns about the economy and jobs. In Wisconsin, Mr. Kerry's campaign is attacking Mr. Bush on milk prices, while in Pennsylvania, Mr. Bush has emphasized his opposition to abortion and gay marriage in an attempt to undercut Mr. Kerry and appeal to the state's sizable Roman Catholic vote.
 But in places like Florida -- arguably the most competitive of the 11 -- minds seem so made up that the outcome is almost surely going to be a function of turnout and voter registration. And for all the talk of speeches, issues and conflicting perceptions of these two men, the power of get-out-the-vote operations that both sides have spent two years putting together may well prove to be the most important factor.
 ''Pennsylvania remains a tight race with Kerry having a slight edge, but it's just down to turnout now,'' said Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College.
 Eric Rademacher, a political scientist at the University of Cincinnati, said, ''Our most recent polls show a dead heat,'' and he added that for all of the advertising money, campaign appearances and attention poured into Ohio this year, ''it will still come down to ground-force execution.''
 ''I don't think there is anything the candidates can do at this point to try to change minds,'' Mr. Rademacher said. Even the arrival of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California in Ohio next week on behalf of Mr. Bush may have little effect, he said, because ''we've passed the level of saturation.''
 Mr. Dowd argued that support for Mr. Bush among Republicans would counter what he acknowledged was intense animosity toward Mr. Bush among Democrats, a remnant of the disputed 2000 election.
 ''You should start seeing some movement next week because people are trying to make up their mind,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''But a big part of this is who turns out. Are Democrats more motivated than Republicans on Election Day?''
 Mr. Kerry's senior aides said that Democrats in states like Florida were showing motivation and interest in levels they had never seen. A procession of polls that show the race as deadlocked has fed that sense.
 ''People waking up in these battleground states and the media telling them that the race is neck-and-neck -- that's the greatest motivator of all,'' said Michael Whouley, a longtime friend of Mr. Kerry and a seasoned operative who is working as a senior strategist at the Democratic National Committee.
 The candidates began the campaign this spring looking at a much wider universe of swing states, from 18 to 21. The narrowing of states is typical late in a campaign, though it does not always happen. It would not be surprising if Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry moved to other states in the last days should they see an opening.
 The starting assumption of both campaigns is that whoever wins two of the top three -- Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio -- will win the presidency.
 Mr. Bush's aides noted that Mr. Kerry was now in a situation where more Gore states were at risk than Bush states, suggesting that might allow them to endure even a loss of those three states. In addition, they said they were skeptical that Mr. Kerry would continue being competitive in Nevada and Colorado, and that Mr. Kerry would come to regret a decision to fly across the country Saturday to Colorado.
 That said, Mr. Bush is in a situation where he is still fighting in states that were critical to his victory in 2000, Ohio and Florida, and that have been critical to his re-election strategy. He returned to Ohio on Friday after a 19-day absence, during which Mr. Kerry appears to have made clear gains there.
 Beyond that, even though Mr. Bush has visited Pennsylvania 41 times since he took office, some state polls still show Mr. Kerry with a slight lead there. And a brief flirtation with New Jersey, one of the more solidly Democratic states, has now been abandoned by the White House, Republicans said.
 The campaigns' advertising dollars reflect this shrinking list. Both Mr. Kerry's and Mr. Bush's biggest advertising buys have been in Florida, where they have both saturated several markets.
 In many ways, the contest has become a battle between character traits and issues, as Mr. Kerry tries to turn the campaign into a referendum on Mr. Bush's record and proposals for the future, while Mr. Bush relentlessly seeks to paint his opponent as intellectually inconsistent and too weak to protect Americans in a time of terrorism. 
 And so aides to both sides say the critical question is which candidate can determine what the debate in the final days is about -- terrorism or the economy.
 ''The most important thing to watch is the struggle for control of the agenda,'' said Charles Black, a Republican consultant who advises the White House. ''The president wants people to have their top priority to be terrorism and security. Kerry should want their priorities to be jobs and health care.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Battleground''Eleven states have emerged as central to the presidential election.ELECTORAL VOTESFlorida: 27Pennsylvania: 21Ohio: 20Michigan: 17Minnesota: 10Wisconsin: 10Colorado: 9Iowa: 7Nevada: 5New Mexico: 5New Hampshire: 4(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Electoral Map''With just over one week to the election, both campaigns have found one thing to agree upon: it has all come down to 11 battleground states, representing 135 electoral votes, that they believe are in play.THE ELECTORAL VOTE COUNTSOLID OR LEANING BUSH: 213BATTLEGROUND: 135 (270 votes needed to win)SOLID OR LEANING KERRY: 190THE ELECTORAL MAPWASH.: 11ORE.: 7CALIF.: 55IDAHO: 4NEV.: 5UTAH: 5ARIZ.: 10MONT.: 3WYO.: 3NEB.: 5COLO.: 9N.M.: 5N.D.: 3S.D.: 3TEX.: 34OKLA.: 7KAN.: 6IOWA: 7MINN.: 10MO.: 11ARK.: 6LA.: 9MISS.: 6ILL.: 21WIS.: 10MICH.: 17IND.: 11TENN.: 11ALA.: 9OHIO: 20KY.: 8GA.: 15FLA.: 27S.C.: 8N.C.: 15VA.: 13D.C.: 3MD.: 10DEL.: 3W.VA.: 5PA.: 21N.J.: 15N.Y.: 31CONN.: 7R.I.: 4MASS.: 12VT.: 3N.H.: 4ME.: 4THE BATTLEGROUND BY THE NUMBERSColoradoELECTORAL VOTES: 9IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsBUSH: 8REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 37% Dem.: 31ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 80% Dem.: 20NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 4.9%FloridaELECTORAL VOTES: 27IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsBUSH: 0.01REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 38% Dem.: 42ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 68% Dem.: 32NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 4.5IowaELECTORAL VOTES: 7IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 0.3REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 31% Dem.: 31ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 63% Dem.: 38NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 4.7MichiganELECTORAL VOTES: 17IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 5REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: N.A.*% Dem.: N.A.*ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 50% Dem.: 50NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 6.8MinnesotaELECTORAL VOTES: 10IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 2REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: N.A.*% Dem.: N.A.*ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 55% Dem.: 45NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 4.6NevadaELECTORAL VOTES: 5IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsBUSH: 4REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 40% Dem.: 41ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 67% Dem.: 33NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 3.9New HampshireELECTORAL VOTES: 4IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsBUSH: 1REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 34% Dem.: 28ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 100% Dem.: 0NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 3.5New MexicoELECTORAL VOTES: 5IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 0.1REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 32% Dem.: 51ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 50% Dem.: 50NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 5.3OhioELECTORAL VOTES: 20IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsBUSH: 4REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: N.A.*% Dem.: N.A.*ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 71% Dem.: 29NADERIs Nader on ballot?: No++JOBSUnemp. rate: 6.0PennsylvaniaELECTORAL VOTES: 21IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 4REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: 42% Dem.: 48ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 64% Dem.: 36NADERIs Nader on ballot?: No++JOBSUnemp. rate: 5.3WisconsinELECTORAL VOTES: 10IN 2000Margin of victory in pct. pointsGORE: 0.2REGISTERED VOTERS% Rep.: N.A.*% Dem.: N.A.*ELECTED OFFICIALS+% Rep.: 36% Dem.: 64NADERIs Nader on ballot?: YesJOBSUnemp. rate: 5.0*Does not have traditional party registration. +Party affiliation of governor and Congressional delegation. ++Case appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.THE RACE IN STATES WON BY BUSH IN 2000COLORADO -- Mr. Kerry was here yesterday, reflecting his contention that he can yank this state back to the Democratic column. Republicans are skeptical.FLORIDA -- It doesn't get tighter than this. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry are here this weekend, and both campaigns consider the outcome at this point a function of voter turnout.NEW HAMPSHIRE -- This is near the top of states that Republicans are concerned about losing
Mr. Kerry comes from nearby.NEVADA -- This state is still on the Democrats' list, but just barely. Mr. Kerry's aides believe that what Mr. Kerry describes as Mr. Bush's reversal on using Yucca Mountain to store nuclear waste is going to hurt him.OHIO -- Mr. Bush once enjoyed an advantage here, but this one is also back in margin-of-error territory amid growing concern about the economy and jobs.THE RACE IN STATES WON BY GORE IN 2000IOWA -- Mr. Gore won this state barely last time and a sense of optimism in the state has made this a difficult nut for Mr. Kerry to crack this time.MICHIGAN -- Mr. Kerry thought he had put this state away. No luck: polls show it back in play, and Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush are both heading there next week.MINNESOTA -- In a state with the longest consecutive streak of voting Democratic for president, no one knows which way the rural voters who once supported Ross Perot and Jesse Ventura will turn.NEW MEXICO -- Roiling demographic changes here, especially with Hispanics, younger voters and retirees, have made it hard to call, but Mr. Bush has the edge.PENNSYLVANIA -- Mr. Kerry has maintained a slim lead here, including in the important Philadelphia suburbs. But Mr. Bush has been hungry for this state, making his 41st visit on Friday.WISCONSIN -- This may be Mr. Bush's best chance to win a Gore state. Fears that Mr. Bush would cut Social Security tripped him up here in 2000 and could again.Map of the United States highlighting states that are solid or leaning Bush, battleground states, solid or leaning Kerry.(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Ballot Access News
 Rhodes Cook, political analyst)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); SUPREME COURTS (59%); TERRORISM (59%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%); ABORTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Election Issues; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (90%) Adam Nagourney; Katharine Q Seelye; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florida; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Minnesota; Wisconsin; Colorado; Iowa; Nevada; New Mexico; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



563 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2572 words

HEADLINE: Will the Market Stay Strong, Or Will It Fold?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
PRICES of apartments fall 10, 20, 30 percent. Houses languish on the market for months, or even years, as desperate sellers slash their asking prices. Mortgage financing dries up, sucking even more money out of the housing market.
 Is this the dire fear-mongering of some bubble-bursting Cassandra, predicting the coming real estate crash? Not at all. Those who were around to witness it will recognize this as a description of the New York real estate market just 15 years ago, when another real estate boom that many thought would never end came tumbling to earth.
 Could it happen here again? 
 ''The market has never been better, that I remember it; that's the good news,'' said the developer Donald J. Trump. ''It's also very dependent on interest rates. If they do go up, the market will truly tank.''
 Mr. Trump predicted that an increase in mortgage rates of three to four percentage points over the next two years -- a figure not out of line with some economists' predictions -- could have a strong adverse effect. But he added a caveat: ''I just don't think that the politicians can allow the rates to go up because then the economy beyond real estate will tank.''
 The boom and bust of the 1980's and early 1990's was created by a confluence of factors. Changes in the tax code spurred a speculative building boom in New York, which led to a glut of apartments on the market. Then, in October 1987, the stock market collapsed, rocking consumer confidence and wounding the city's economic base. Finally, the crisis in the savings and loan industry led to a tightening of lending requirements that greatly restricted the availability of loans.
 In many ways, conditions today are very different and New York appears to be in a much stronger position, in both economic and social terms. Crime rates are far lower, neighborhoods are healthier and the city has seen a steady population growth that promises to keep demand for housing strong.
 The city's population has grown by 1.1 million since 1980, to 8.1 million, with 100,000 residents added between 2000 and 2003, despite the effects of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attack, according to Eric Kober, the director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning for the City Planning Department. ''Real growth in population and income means the housing boom that has taken place in the 00's has had a much sounder fundamental basis,'' Mr. Kober said.
 Most economists predict, or at least hope for, a soft landing from a period of galloping price increases, with housing values eventually leveling out.
 That hasn't stopped some economists from pointing to weaknesses in the housing boom across the country, including prices that may be greatly inflated in relation to income.
 And in a boom fueled by low interest rates, many of them are echoing Mr. Trump's concern about what will happen when rates inevitably rise. 
 There is, however, another factor at the root of today's market that some economists and mortgage professionals say could spell trouble ahead: an easing of credit standards and the proliferation of riskier forms of adjustable-rate mortgages.
 Even with interest rates low, many home buyers are choosing adjustable-rate mortgages over more traditional, and safer, 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. That is especially true in areas like New York and California that have experienced very rapid growth in real estate prices.
 According to a survey by the Mortgage Bankers Association, 34.8 percent of new mortgage applications received by lenders nationwide in the week of Oct. 10 were for adjustable-rate mortgages, known as ARM's, whose rates can change after a set period and may rise (or fall) considerably over time.
 Precise numbers for the New York area are difficult to come by, but interviews with mortgage brokers and bankers indicate that adjustable-rate mortgages are even more popular here than in many other regions.
 Melissa Cohn, chief executive of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, one of the metropolitan area's leading mortgage brokers, said that 56 percent of the loans handled by her office in September were ARM's. A year earlier, ARM's were running at 59 percent of all mortgages. Even in July 2003, during a summer when long-term fixed rate mortgages were at their lowest level in decades, her firm had 47 percent of home buyers and those refinancing old mortgages turning to adjustable-rate mortgages.
 In many cases, the call to ARM's seems to be a direct response to escalating home values. Prices have climbed so high in New York that many buyers feel they have no choice but to take out an ARM, whose lower monthly payments may be the only way they can afford the home they want.
 ''They're buying at their upper limits financially and so they're stretching to get into their new property,'' Ms. Cohn said. 
 The growth of ARM's is paralleled by an increase in total household debt nationwide; a significant portion is credit card debt that is also subject to a potential rise in interest rates. Concerns have risen to the point that Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, addressed the issue in a speech on Tuesday, when he played down fears of a housing bubble and declared that family finances remain in ''reasonably good shape.'' 
 THE main reason home buyers choose ARM's is that they carry lower interest rates than fixed-rate mortgages, at least during an initial period before the rate is allowed to fluctuate (after that, increases are typically held to no more than two percentage points a year). In a popular type of loan called a hybrid ARM, the initial period before the rate begins to change can often last three, five or seven years. The shorter the period, the lower the rate.
 Many New Yorkers choose a hybrid ARM because they plan to sell their apartment before the initial period expires. This is particularly true of young couples who may buy a small apartment with plans to upgrade within a few years.
 But not all ARM's are created equal, and some professionals in the housing industry have voiced concern over the growing popularity of a form of ARM known as an interest-only mortgage. These loans can involve even lower monthly payments than a typical hybrid ARM, because the borrower is not required to make payments against the loan's principal during the period before the rate changes. But they can also involve a greater ''payment shock'' if interest rates go up at the same time that a homeowner must start paying off the principal.
 Ms. Cohn believes the mortgage system is sound and does not see a crash in real estate prices on the horizon. But she is not without concerns, especially looking ahead three to five years, when many interest-only mortgages in the New York area switch over and could be hit with an increase in interest rates. ''The greater risk to our economy is the end of these interest-only periods,'' Ms. Cohn said. ''They became very popular two years ago. There's a tremendous concentration in these interest-only ARM's that will all mature together. People were attracted to the appeal of the much lower payment without thinking 'what's going to happen to me in five years.' ''
 Interest-only loans were generally designed for well-off borrowers who rely heavily on commissions or bonus income. That would allow them to make principal payments on an occasional basis, such as after they receive a year-end bonus. The loans can also be used to take advantage of a rising market, in which a homeowner believes he can sell again at a profit before his rates change. ''What people understand is that their home goes up in value each year by much more than they can pay the loan down,'' said Douglas Baum, president of New Amsterdam Mortgage, which is based in White Plains. He is also president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers. By skipping principal payments, he said, ''they create additional cash flow and use the increase in the market to add the equity to the home.'' Of course, that kind of plan doesn't work if home prices fall.
 A hypothetical borrower who took out a $400,000 interest-only loan at 4.75 percent, a common rate in today's market, would start with payments of $1,583 a month, according to Ms. Cohn. If the loan's introductory period was five years, even without a rise in interest rates, the payment would jump at the end of that time to $2,280 a month, once principal payments kick in.
 With an annual cap on rate increases of two percentage points, in a worst-case scenario, the monthly payment after five years would rise to $2,763, and could rise or fall again each year.
 The short-term advantages are easy to see, although the risks may not always be so obvious. A home buyer who could afford $3,000 a month in mortgage payments could borrow $500,000 with a 30-year fixed-rate loan at 6 percent, according to Nagy Y. Henein, president of the Greater Mortgage Corporation. For the same monthly payments, at least before rates change, the same home buyer could borrow $540,000 with a five-year hybrid ARM at 4.5 percent, or $800,000 with an interest-only ARM, also at 4.5 percent, Mr. Henein said.
 One of the risks with an interest-only loan, he pointed out, is that unless the borrower has the financial discipline to make voluntary payments toward principal, he could find himself after 5 or 10 years still owing the entire sum he borrowed. ''Let borrower beware -- beware of what you are embarking on,'' Mr. Henein said.
 Jeff Schiamberg, an investment banker, was careful to consider potential risks when he chose an interest-only mortgage for the purchase of a $1.15 million apartment in a building at 49 East 21st Street that is being converted to condos. Using a broker at Manhattan Mortgage, he borrowed $975,000, with a 4.5 percent interest rate that will remain unchanged for five years.
 His monthly mortgage payment will be about $3,600 a month during the initial period. When real estate taxes and common charges are factored in, his monthly housing expense will be about $5,000. But, he said, after taking a deduction for interest payments from his income tax, his monthly housing cost will be about the same as the $3,000 a month he now pays in rent in the West Village.
 Mr. Schiamberg said he and his wife, Jennifer, were able to contemplate the purchase of an apartment over $1 million because of the lower monthly payments allowed in an interest-only ARM. ''We were able to buy a larger place and on an after-tax basis pay about what we're paying now for rent,'' said Mr. Schiamberg, 33, who expects to sell the condo before his interest rates are set to change in five years.
 ''What we're thinking is regardless of what the economy is five years from now, we'll likely make money by selling the place,'' he said. If not he expects to have the resources to pay off the mortgage in a lump sum and stay in the apartment because ''some day prices will come back.''
 One of the reasons interest-only mortgages and other ARM's have increased in popularity is that banks like them, according to Steven B. Schnall, chief executive of the New York Mortgage Company. He is also chief executive of the New York Mortgage Trust, a real estate investment trust that buys mortgage-backed securities.
 Since the money a bank or other large institution borrows is often subject to short-term fluctuations in interest rates, the ability of ARM rates to change over time can provide a hedge against future rate increases.
 The loans appeal to banks regardless of whether they hold onto the mortgages or sell them on the secondary market to investment trusts, like Mr. Schnall's, or Fannie Mae, the government-chartered company that helps finance the mortgage industry.
 ''We're underwriting ARM's very cautiously because we're looking to be a long term owner of these loans,'' said Mr. Schnall, who said about half the loans his company makes are ARM's.
 But others may not be as careful. Mr. Schnall said he frequently evaluates the credit data backing up groups of securitized ARM's, including factors like loan-to-value ratios, which compare outstanding principal to the appraised value of a home. 
 ''When we look at some of these, you say, 'I wouldn't want to be the one holding that portfolio,' '' he said. ''The loan-to-value ratios are high, the credit scores are not that great and they are adjustable-rate mortgages. Is there going to be a credit catastrophe? I think most people bet not. But I'd say there needs to be caution.''
 Mortgage professionals say the current housing boom across the country has been accompanied by a general loosening of the standards by which banks decide who is eligible for a mortgage.
 In the early 1990's, banks typically would allow borrowers' monthly mortgage payments equal to up to 28 percent of their gross monthly income. Total debt service, including mortgage payments, could rise to 36 percent. Today, some lenders allow up to 42 percent of gross monthly income to be spent on mortgage payments, with total debt payments rising to 50 percent or more in some cases.
 Lending decisions are largely driven by credit scores, and, with lenders relying on computer programs developed by Fannie Mae to evaluate loan applications, borrowers with good credit are allowed larger payments than in the past.
 ''If I had to look at one sector, I'd be watching underwriting standards,'' said Keith T. Gumbinger, a vice president for HSH Associates, a publisher of financial data that tracks the mortgage industry. Lenders were working overtime the last two or three years to keep up with a surge in refinancing sparked by low interest rates. Now that rates have jogged upward, the refinance business has been more than cut in half, leaving lenders hungry for new business. Lenders made $3.8 trillion in mortgage loans last year, compared with a projected $2.6 trillion this year, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. ''It's always a curiosity as to whether underwriting standards are being diminished in order to keep up volume,'' Mr. Gumbinger said.
 A market with soaring prices has put remarkable pressure on buyers at the same time that it has fostered the illusion that values can go in only one direction. Still, some are aware of the potential pitfalls.
 Mark DiMassimo, chief executive of DiMassimo Carr Brand Advocates, an advertising agency, used an interest-only mortgage, obtained through Manhattan Mortgage, to cover about half the price of a $1.4 million home in Rye, N.Y., last month. The rest of the purchase price came from the proceeds of the sale of his Manhattan co-op. At an interest rate of 5.25 percent, which will remain set for seven years, he feels he has taken a conservative stance, combining a large amount of equity with the lower rate and flexible payment structure provided by an ARM. His monthly payment is $3,171, but he plans to make payments against the principal on an ongoing basis.
 Mr. DiMassimo said he learned from the experience of his parents, who struggled in the down market of the late 1980's and early 1990's, when they were unable to sell their house in St. James, in Suffolk County, on Long Island. It took his parents several years to find a buyer, he said, and they finally sold the home for about 20 percent less than they paid for it 12 years earlier.
 Mr. DiMassimo, 42, said part of his motivation in moving this summer was that he wanted to sell his Manhattan apartment before prices fell. ''I do really believe,'' he said, ''we were buying during a bubble.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ADJUSTABLE MORTGAGE -- Jeff and Jennifer Schiamberg chose an interest-only loan for the purchase of their $1.15 million apartment at 49 East 21st Street, above. (Photographs by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Ups and Downs''As real estate prices have risen in recent years, it is easy to forget the down years of the early 1990's, when prices plummeted after a housing boom.Graph tracks average sale price for apartments in Manhattan (unadjusted and adjusted for inflation), in thousands, from 1974 to 2002.Tracking Mortgage TrendsIn the past, when adjustable rate mortgages made up a large share of new mortgages, many stood to benefit because interest rates subsequently fell or remained level. Today, borrowers with ARM's are more likely to see rates increase from their current low levels.Graph tracks adjustable rate mortgages as a percentage of total mortgages since 1990.Graph tracks 30-year fixed interest rates since 1990.(Sources by The Corcoran Group
 Mortgage Bankers Association Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); WILLS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); CRIME RATES (68%); TERRORISM (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TAX LAW (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (71%) William Neuman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



564 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: POLICY; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Behind Candidates' Domestic Plans, an Ideological Gulf

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and ROBIN TONER; Diana Jean Schemo contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 

 BODY:
On social and economic policy, President Bush and Senator John Kerry present a philosophical contrast that is one of the starkest in modern presidential campaigns.
 Mr. Bush would, in important ways, break with the underpinnings of the New Deal and the Great Society that have directed the government's domestic policies for generations.
 He wants, for example, to allow workers to open private investment accounts with part of their Social Security taxes, so the retirement program would no longer be run entirely by the government.
 He proposes giving commercial insurance companies a larger role in Medicare, the government health insurance program for the elderly and disabled. 
 He favors spending federal elementary and secondary education money, used almost entirely for the benefit of public school students for 40 years, on vouchers to help parents pay tuition at private and parochial schools.
 Mr. Bush calls all this an ''ownership society'' that would rein in the government and give individuals more control over and responsibility for their financial lives, their health care, their children's education and their retirement.
 Mr. Kerry promises to sustain and strengthen the government programs enacted under Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson, and to use government resources to ease the strain on retirees and middle class families caused by the changing economy and the soaring costs of health care and education.
 But Mr. Kerry envisions no substantial overhaul of these programs.
 Donald F. Kettl, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, said the basic difference between the presidential candidates was in ''the way they would use the marketplace to solve public problems.'' After ticking off a list of Mr. Bush's domestic proposals, Professor Kettl said, ''When you start piling these things up, it amounts to a fundamental break with existing policy and an enormous change for the future.''
 Mr. Kerry, he observed, promises ''more effective administration and perhaps more generous funding but no fundamental changes.''
 Mr. Bush accuses Mr. Kerry of being a traditional, big-taxing, big-spending, big-government liberal. ''He's going to tax everybody here to fund his programs,'' Mr. Bush said in their second debate. ''That's just reality.''
 In the third debate, Mr. Bush described his own philosophy this way: ''I believe the role of government is to stand side by side with our citizens to help them realize their dreams, not tell citizens how to live their lives.'' 
 Mr. Kerry accuses Mr. Bush of threatening the economic security of the middle class and the elderly, and of abandoning his promise of ''compassionate conservatism'' in order to give big tax cuts to the wealthy.
 ''The president,'' Mr. Kerry said in the second debate, ''thinks it's more important to fight for the top 1 percent than to fight for fiscal responsibility and to fight for you.''
 Later in that debate, Mr. Kerry offered his view of the proper role of the government. ''I believe that we can together do things that are within the grasp of Americans,'' he said. ''We can lift our schools up. We can create jobs that pay more than the jobs we're losing overseas. We can have health care for all Americans. We can further the cause of equality in our nation.''
 Here in brief is where the candidates stand on some of the most important domestic policy issues:

Taxes
 Tax cuts are the central element of Mr. Bush's economic policy, reflecting his belief that, as he often put it four years ago, ''It's not the government's money; it's your money.'' 
 The tax reductions enacted during his presidency, totaling at least $2 trillion over 10 years, are heavily skewed toward the wealthy. Arguing that those cuts are important for economic growth, the president wants to make them permanent.
 Mr. Kerry wants to keep the cuts for most Americans but repeal them for the 2 percent of taxpayers with annual incomes of more than $200,000. He would use the revenue mostly to pay for his health care plan. 
 The president has also suggested that he would like to overhaul the tax system so that taxes on profits from investments are essentially eliminated. Mr. Kerry opposes such a measure.

The Economy
 The state of the economy is mainly a function of the business cycle, but that has not stopped the presidential candidates from making a campaign issue out of people's jobs and income. Mr. Kerry points to Mr. Bush's record as the first president since Herbert Hoover to have the number of jobs in the country decline during his term. Mr. Bush notes that the number of jobs has grown in the last year.
 Mr. Kerry points to data showing that median household income has fallen during the Bush presidency. Mr. Bush argues that average after-tax income has increased. Neither candidate has a sure-fire way to ensure job growth and higher incomes.
 Mr. Kerry favors raising the minimum wage and eliminating tax advantages to companies that move jobs overseas. Mr. Bush opposes those proposals and favors more generous tax incentives to encourage businesses to hire and expand.

The Deficit
 When Mr. Bush took office in January 2001, the Congressional Budget Office projected a budget surplus of $397 billion for the fiscal year 2004, assuming no changes in tax and spending laws. When that fiscal year ended two weeks ago, the budget showed a deficit of $415 billion, a swing of $812 billion. The budget office calculates that about one-third of the swing was due to tax cuts, about one-third to the sour economy and about one-third to increased spending, mainly for the war and domestic security. Both candidates promise to cut the deficit in half in the next four years, but neither has offered a plausible way to reach that goal.

Health Care
 Mr. Kerry would make medical insurance available to all children and most adults now without coverage through a combination of tax credits, subsidies and the expansion of public programs. His campaign estimates the cost at $653 billion over 10 years; the Bush campaign puts the cost much higher.
 Mr. Bush calls the Kerry plan a government ''takeover'' of health care. In fact, it is intended to build on the existing employer-based system. Its most innovative feature would have the government pick up the cost of the most catastrophic cases -- over $30,000 in 2006 -- easing the burden on the premiums of workers and their employers.
 Mr. Bush's health care plan, much more modest in scale, aims to encourage people to buy high-deductible health insurance plans and use tax-free health savings accounts for routine medical expenses. Mr. Bush also promises tax credits to help people buy insurance and more assistance for community health clinics.

Social Security
 Mr. Bush has proposed allowing younger workers to divert part of their payroll taxes into private investment accounts. He has said such a step would ensure that young Americans receive the benefits they deserve. 
 The president promises that the benefits of current retirees and those near retirement will not be affected. But he has not endorsed a specific plan, and has not said how he would pay the transition costs of creating those accounts, which could be as high as $2 trillion over the first 10 years.
 Mr. Kerry asserts that personal accounts amount to privatizing an important social safety net, exposing the elderly to much greater risk and draining the program in the near term of money it badly needs. Mr. Kerry has said the best way to shore up Social Security for the strains of the coming decades is to restore ''fiscal responsibility'' to the federal budget so that Social Security tax revenues are used less to pay operating expenses of the government.

Medicare
 Mr. Bush points to the Medicare overhaul he pushed through last year, which provides drug discount cards for retirees this year and limited insurance coverage of prescription drugs beginning in 2006. 
 Mr. Kerry denounces the law as a giveaway to the pharmaceutical industry. He supports giving the federal government the right to negotiate prices for the elderly and would allow importation of lower-priced prescription drugs from Canada. Mr. Bush has opposed imports on the ground that their safety cannot be guaranteed.

The Supreme Court
 With eight of the nine justices older than 65, the next president is expected to have the opportunity to name at least one, and possibly as many as three, new members of the court.
 In his first-term appointments to lower courts, Mr. Bush consistently nominated conservatives, including some who were outspoken opponents of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that recognized a woman's constitutional right to abortion. His supporters expect him to do the same with the Supreme Court. 
 Mr. Kerry has said he will only nominate justices who support ''the law of the land,'' including Roe.

Energy
 Both candidates promise to reduce the nation's dependence on imported oil, but neither has put forth a convincing way to meet that goal. Mr. Bush wants increased production, including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Mr. Kerry favors more conservation, including stricter gasoline mileage standards for cars.

Education
 Both candidates support the basic tenets of Mr. Bush's sweeping education law known as No Child Left Behind. It sets rules to make sure all children at all schools become proficient in reading and math over the next decade, and it imposes onerous consequences on high-poverty schools that fail to make steady progress toward that goal. Mr. Kerry has called for increasing spending on the program.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The next president may have the chance to fill as many as three Supreme Court vacancies. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); INSURANCE (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); TUITION FEES (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); CHILDREN (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (70%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; United States Economy; Energy and Power; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Social Security (US); Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) David E Rosenbaum; Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



565 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation -- Scenarios; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: What if They Lose?

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
AS far as most Democrats are concerned, their side won the White House in 2000. And as far as most Democrats are concerned, given the state of the economy and the war in Iraq, they should win it again a week from Tuesday.
 So it seems fair to say that should Senator John Kerry lose to President Bush -- which many Democrats insist is highly unlikely -- the Democratic Party would be in for another bout of recrimination, self-examination and transformation.
 Such an exercise might seem familiar for the party, given recent experience. Yet the aftermath of a Kerry defeat might turn out to be even more traumatic than the ritualistic bloodletting that political parties undergo after a tough loss. 
 In this of all elections, a defeat would have the makings of being especially debilitating for Democrats, given the depth of the party's bench, its continuing search for a unifying message, and the institutional challenges to the party's influence that emerged from independent 527 committees this year.
 Most immediately, a large reason that Mr. Kerry captured his party's nomination is that Democratic primary voters concluded he could hold his own on national security. He is, after all, a Vietnam veteran who voted for the war on Iraq.
 In this context, a Kerry loss would crystallize an excruciating question for the Democratic Party: Can it ever compete with the Republican Party on a threshold issue that seems likely to be central to American presidential elections for a long time to come?
 ''If we lose, we are going to have to find an answer to the question of how are we going to keep this country secure,'' said Al From, the head of the Democratic Leadership Council, a group of moderate Democrats who helped elect Bill Clinton president at a time when no one thought or talked about a domestic terrorist attack. 
 A Democratic consultant, who did not want to be quoted by name speculating on the possibility that Mr. Kerry might lose, said that if that happens, ''Democrats will go back to 'What does it take to win?' -- except this time, it will be, 'Oh my God! What does it take to win?'
 ''There will be a push from the left saying we weren't left enough. And there will be a push from the center saying we weren't center enough.'' 
 And there will, no doubt, be still another round of intraparty fighting over the war in Iraq, with some Democrats wondering if the party would have been better off nominating someone who opposed the war from the start -- say, Howard Dean -- as opposed to Mr. Kerry, whose initial vote for the war resolution has proved a constant complication for his presidential campaign. 
 Dr. Dean, who did not return a telephone call, is said to have told associates that he believes an antiwar candidate would have fared better against Mr. Bush.
 In the inevitable debate about ideological repositioning, some Democrats will no doubt be tempted to remember the aftermath of Michael Dukakis' defeat in 1988, after which Mr. Clinton put the party back in the White House by pulling it to the center on such domestic issues as welfare reform and crime.
 Yet the pattern does not fit the election. Mr. Kerry is more liberal than Mr. Clinton, but, Mr. Bush's attacks on him notwithstanding, not by much. 
 The real problem, several Democrats worried, is not that Mr. Kerry took the Democratic Party to the left, but that he failed to offer defining, distinguishing themes that would have provided a clearer alternative to Mr. Bush.
 ''We will need to develop a better argument about where to take the world when we take power,'' said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democratic Network, a fundraising and advocacy group. ''You can call it ideas, you can call it an agenda. We all know that Democrats do not have as coherent a world view as we want.''
 Mr. Rosenberg added: ''For a long time, we've been in denial about what's happened with the modern conservative movement. And we've woken up to the fact that Republicans have more power today than any other time since the 1920's. Things are not moving in the right direction for the Democratic Party.''
 Mr. From said: ''The way a political party succeeds in America is by offering solutions. If we lose, we can't be sitting there shooting at each other, blaming people for what happened. ''
 And of course, there is the question of who will lead the fight. The Democratic bench would appear lighter than the Republican bench: There are fewer names being floated now as potential presidential candidates in 2008.
 Many Democrats said that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York would be the early favorite to win the presidential nomination. But even her most enthusiastic partisans acknowledged that there is a difference between winning a Democratic primary and appealing to the general electorate. If electability is a deciding factor for Democratic primary voters, as it was this year -- and why wouldn't it be? -- that could be a hurdle she would have to overcome.
 Only two other Democrats who ran for president this year would be considered strong candidates in 2008, and both have problems: Senator John Edwards, Mr. Kerry's running mate, would no doubt be tarnished by a Kerry loss, and Dr. Dean would have to overcome the memory of his own collapse this year.
 The other two names most mentioned are Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana and Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico.
 A Kerry loss would certainly lead the party to re-evaluate what it is looking for in a presidential candidate, and one fascinating question is whether it would, fairly or not, make it more difficult for another Catholic to capture the Democratic nomination any time soon. 
 No Democrat is likely to forget the way church leaders opposed Mr. Kerry because of his support of abortion rights, and the opportunity that that provided tp Mr. Bush in states with big Catholic votes, like Pennsylvania -- assuming, of course, that the opposition of some archbishops actually winds up hurting Mr. Kerry.One thing does seem clear: If Mr. Kerry loses, the Democratic Party will post a big ''No Northeast liberals need apply'' sign on its door. 
 ''The Democratic Party elites, because they have such a short time horizon, will look back at the Clinton years and say, 'That was the right formula,''' said James G. Gimpel, a history professor at the University of Maryland. ''Nominating someone from a moderate state with a moderate ideology was the right thing to do, and moving to the left and to Massachusetts was the wrong thing to do.'' 
 Will there be recriminations among Democrats, aimed at Mr. Kerry and his constantly changing legion of advisers? Of course. These are Democrats, after all. But if this year showed anything, it was that Mr. Bush has imposed a measure of unity on the Democratic Party that presumably would only be intensified by four more years of Mr. Bush.
 More than ever, Democrats would belong to a party that wants to win. They would just have to figure out a way to do it.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Illustrations by Rodrigo Corral) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



566 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POPULAR CULTURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Of Atlantic City And Sleeping Beauty

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
ATLANTIC CITY has long been the overdressed platinum blonde of Jersey Shore resorts, much like her darling Miss America pageant. There are days she looks radiant, with an electric smile and a gentle wave. But sometimes there is a day of washout. Then, the mascara runs and the high hair frizzes.
 Such a day came last Wednesday, when ABC announced that it would no longer broadcast the Miss America pageant. For the first time in 50 years, Miss America was left without a suitor from network television, giving rise to the thought that this might be the death knell for Atlantic City's longest-running attraction. 
 The pageant has become a dainty dinosaur, a leggy curiosity from the era of ''The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet'' and Hula Hoops. In a pop-cultural moment defined by extreme makeovers and instant pornography on the Internet, the idea of young women swaddled in callow idealism and clad in bathing suits as they sashay for the cameras suffers from terminal quaintness. Even the Miss America Organization admitted that it wasn't surprised that ABC dropped the show.
 Still, what kind of tremors does ABC's decision create for a city whose identity has been so strongly tied to the pageant? Then there's the strike of several weeks' duration by casino workers and the continuing financial worries of the resort's most prominent figure, Donald J. Trump (talk about a riveting reality show). 
 So, the Miss America news was hardly a boon to public relations for Atlantic City. Yet local business owners, and the Miss America Organization itself, are trying to put the best face on the run of bad news.
 ''Every destination, urban or resort, that has tourism has any number of issues at any given time,'' said Cathleen Kiernan, vice president of communications for Smith O'Keefe and Associates, an Egg Harbor Township marketing firm that has many clients in and around Atlantic City. ''Certain folks will have financial problems, and there will be labor issues, and things like Miss America will go through changes.
 ''But all the casinos are open and right now, none of this is affecting the Atlantic City market.''
 For its part, the Miss America Organization said it has no thoughts of moving out of Atlantic City, as was threatened several years ago. ''We're based in Atlantic City, and we have been for 84 years; we don't see that changing,'' said Jenni Glenn, a Miss America Organization spokeswoman. Ms. Glenn said the ABC announcement was somewhat expected. ''Creatively, the association with ABC had run its course. We even encouraged a parting of the ways this summer. We have been with all the networks, and all that time we have been in Atlantic City.''
 Ms. Glenn said talks are under way to find another television partner. The pageant derives several million dollars a year from its television production, but ratings have been sinking, about 10 percent a year over the last five years.
 The Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority contributed $678,000 toward last September's TV production and in return got to produce a three-minute spot promoting Atlantic City. ''We do in-kind things for the pageant as well, but we're not viewing this as a big negative,'' said Susan Ricciardi of the authority. ''The landscape of TV has changed from the 1950's and 1960's. Perhaps that means that there will be a niche audience for Miss America, but that won't hurt the city.
 ''You see, normally we get people from a 300-mile radius, but during that two weeks during the pageant, it changes radically. Each time Miss Ohio's aunt or Miss Iowa's uncle comes here for a week and we can show them the good things about Atlantic City, that only enhances our profile. I believe Miss America will still be around for a long time, even without ABC.'' 
 Michael Pollock, publisher of the Pleasantville-based Gaming Industry Observer, said the run of bad news, including the Miss America announcement, should have little effect on the otherwise good run the casino industry in town is having.
 ''If anything, the prevailing view out of Atlantic City is optimism,'' Mr. Pollock said. ''Even the strike is being fought over issues concerning future growth in Atlantic City, of how everyone can profit from it. From the perspective of the people down here, the good news is in terms of projects under way and those that are likely to be built. True, you look at the papers and you see bad news. But the casino revenue numbers have been growing and I don't get a sense of pessimism, even with the strike, and certainly not with Miss America.''
 Certainly there has been a boom in high-end retail stores and fancy restaurants in the last year. The Walk, a new upscale outlet mall, has 40 of its 52 stores open, with upper-crust places like Tommy Hilfiger, Coach, Guess, and Nautica among them. The former Ocean One mall on the Boardwalk is being redone and will eventually be even more upscale, with stores like Gucci and Ferragamo. Where there were once vacant storefronts on the Boardwalk, there are now sophisticated national chains like Starbucks and Rainforest Cafe.
 ''If national retailers and these kinds of food and beverage places are coming in,'' Ms. Kiernan said, ''we can't let some minor setbacks get in the way.'' 
 Ms. Ricciardi of the Convention and Visitors Authority said one telling thing is that the four-day weekend of Nov. 4-7 is not being affected by any bad news. It is the time of the New Jersey teachers' convention and, she said, every room in town is booked.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Meriwether, left, reacting after being named Miss America 1955, during the first telecast in 1954. ABC has dropped the pageant, citing weak ratings. (Photo by Miss America Organization/Associated Press)
 So long: The 2004 Miss America pageant had a record-low viewership. (Photo by Mary Godleski/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RESORTS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); TRENDS (70%); GAMING (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); PORNOGRAPHY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Travel and Vacations; Beauty Contests; Miss America; Gambling; Casinos; Labor; Strikes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Television

ORGANIZATION: Abc Inc

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (58%) Donald Trump; Jenni Glenn; Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlantic City (NJ) ; Atlantic City (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



567 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Talks of Hope While Bush Shows Force in Florida

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN and DAVID E. SANGER; Jodi Wilgoren reported from Pueblo, Colo., for this article and David E. Sanger from Fort Myers and Jacksonville, Fla. Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PUEBLO, Colo., Oct. 23 

 BODY:
As President Bush stumped through Florida, accusing his opponent of ''election amnesia'' about the threat posed by Iraq, Senator John Kerry sought to expand turnout among the Southwest's growing Hispanic population on Saturday, pitching his as the campaign of hope.
 With aides pushing him to pivot from a confrontational anti-Bush message to a more inspirational one, Mr. Kerry told a crowd of thousands here, ''We need a president who asks you to join together in voting not for your fears but for your hopes.''
 He urged residents of this newly contested state to ''vote the hopes and dreams of average people,'' and told them, ''I want you to vote your hopes for the economy.'' 
 ''I ask you to take your hopes with you in these next days, vote your hopes, not the fears that George Bush wants you to feel,'' he pleaded. ''Vote the hopes of our nation, vote the possibilities of our country.''
 In Fort Myers, Fla., on Saturday morning and then in Lakeland and Melbourne, Mr. Bush cast new aspersions on Mr. Kerry's fitness to be commander in chief, declaring twice that Mr. Kerry had said he would attack terrorism only ''after America is hit -- and that would be too late.'' In fact, Mr. Kerry has insisted that he would take pre-emptive action, when there was clear intelligence about a threat to the United States -- a test he says Mr. Bush threw aside in the case of Iraq.
 Mr. Bush used all the trappings of the presidency to generate enthusiasm and dominate Florida's airwaves. In the morning, in the first of four scheduled appearances in the state, Mr. Bush swept over a crowd of 12,000. As his helicopter, Marine One, landed in a jammed stadium, the music from ''Top Gun,'' the movie about a risk-taking Navy pilot, blared over the loudspeakers. And it wasn't just any stadium: It was the field where the Boston Red Sox -- hometown team of his rival -- play their spring training games. 
 It took only a few moments for Mr. Bush to begin ridiculing Mr. Kerry for his statements about Saddam Hussein before the invasion.
 ''The senator used to recognize that Saddam Hussein was a gathering threat who hated America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''After all, he said so. He used to recognize that Saddam was a state sponsor of terror with a history of pursuing and even using weapons of mass destruction. After all, he said so.''
 He added a moment later: ''Senator Kerry seems to have forgotten all of that, as his position has evolved during the course of the campaign. You might call it election amnesia.''
 Late Saturday afternoon in Jacksonville, Mr. Bush held what his campaign said was his largest rally, at a football stadium normally used by the Jacksonville Jaguars. The stadium appeared about half-full -- it seats 76,800 -- but the campaign said about 50,000 people attended. Mr. Bush repeated his critique of Mr. Kerry, while his political adviser, Karl Rove, told reporters that the president would have six more events in Florida before the election. Mr. Kerry also was bound for Florida on Saturday night, but he spent the day in this Hispanic ranching town about an hour and a half south of Denver, and in Las Cruces, N.M., an immigrant haven in the conservative southern swath of the state. Mr. Bush is scheduled to visit New Mexico, which has five electoral votes and now appears to be barely in Mr. Kerry's column, on Sunday. The president will visit Colorado, with nine electoral votes, on Monday.
 The Democrats won New Mexico by 0.1 percent of the vote in 2000; Colorado typically votes Republican in national elections, but Mr. Kerry has made a special pitch there.
 The Massachusetts senator was introduced at Saturday morning's rally as ''a Colorado native son,'' because he was born in an Army hospital in Aurora. 
 He flaunted his Spanish in an emotional appeal for votes. ''This is absolutely the most important election of our lifetime -- esta es la eleccion mas importante de nuestras vidas,'' Mr. Kerry said. Even as he tried to emphasize a positive plan for the future, Mr. Kerry slammed Mr. Bush for his pursuit of terrorists, saying ''Osama bin Laden just walked out the back door'' of the mountains of Tora Bora because the administration ''outsourced the job'' of catching him to Afghan warlords. Here in Pueblo, Mr. Kerry pointed out a man in the audience who served with him on Swift boats in the Vietnam War, and vowed, ''with the same energy that Wayne and I put in going after Viet Cong and trying to win for our country, I pledge to you, I will hunt down, capture or kill the terrorists.''
 And, in his own way, he mocked Mr. Bush as not up for the job.
 ''In that first debate I kept hearing the president say -- he'd lean over that podium and kind of look at you real nice-like and say -- 'It's hard work, it's hard work, it's hard work,''' Mr. Kerry said, himself leaning on a lectern, chin in hand. ''I've got news for you, Mr. President, I'm ready to relieve you of the hard work.''
 Mr. Kerry's aides said they would begin running three new television spots on Monday in a final $10 million blitz in swing states. One focuses on the economy, another on national security and the third on both. 
 Tad Devine, a senior Kerry adviser, said the new ads, up against Mr. Bush's closing spot showing a pack of wolves lurking in a forest, provided ''a classic matchup, the politics of hope versus the politics of fear.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush arrived at a rally in Fort Myers, Fla., yesterday morning. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry at a rally yesterday at Union Depot in Pueblo, Colo. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (65%); HELICOPTERS (62%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Hispanic-Americans; United States Economy; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) Jodi Wilgoren; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (74%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%) New Mexico; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



568 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Counting The Hidden Costs of War

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
IT'S often said that truth is the first casualty of war. During a presidential campaign, that may be more apt than ever. Consider a seemingly simple question: What is the cost of the Iraq war to the United States? President Bush and Senator John Kerry have given different answers, but both candidates have ignored what may be the biggest cost item: the war's impact on the overall economy.
 After all, the real cost of war is not only the money spent but also the economic effects, good or bad. For example, World War II led to huge levels of production and employment in the United States, while the Vietnam War dragged down economic growth as it wore on. 
 So, after 19 months of conflict in Iraq, how has the war affected America's economy, and what about the future? 
 Of course, calculating the net effect of a continuing war is neither easy nor exact. That's why many analysts are reluctant to try. But a few knowledgeable economists have made reasoned estimates, and the results are surprising.
 The economic cost incurred so far may be as large as -- or larger than -- what has actually been spent directly on the war. (While estimates vary, the official figure for spending stands at around $120 billion since the conflict began.) And there are likely to be major economic costs as long as the war continues. 
 But start with the economic impact to date. Two economists, Warwick J. McKibbin of the Brookings Institution and Andrew Stoeckel of the Center for International Economics in Australia, have calculated that the war may have already cost the United States $150 billion in lost gross domestic product since fighting began in March 2003. That is close to one percentage point of growth lost over the past year and a half. If that figure is correct, the nation's annual economic growth rate, which has been 3.7 percent during this period, could have been nearly 4.7 percent without the war. 
 Where does that $150 billion figure come from? The study took into account factors like higher oil prices, increased budget deficits and greater uncertainty. When analyzing the effects of uncertainty, the authors estimated the impact of the war on financial markets, business investment and consumer spending.
 Of course, the results of any economic model are open to debate, and the $150 billion estimate is no exception. Some economists, like David Gold at the New School University, argue that the figure may be too low while others, like Mark Zandi of Economy.com, contend that it's on the high side.
 But if Mr. McKibbin and Mr. Stoeckel are correct in their estimate, the real cost of the war to date, including direct spending and lost economic growth, is in the neighborhood of $270 billion. 
 Most economists would agree that the war has hurt the economy, mainly through higher oil prices and continuing uncertainty. The war's effect on oil prices is hard to disentangle from factors like higher global demand and supply disruptions, but it is commonly thought that the war's role has been significant. 
 ''It isn't a coincidence that we have oil prices breaching the key $50-a-barrel threshold one and a half years into this war,'' said Stephen S. Roach, Morgan Stanley's chief global economist. 
 Mr. Zandi says the war has clearly ''had a very large impact on our economy and on the psyches of business and consumers.'' He explained it this way: First, in the period before the war, fear and uncertainty held back the economic recovery. Then, as the initial invasion succeeded, the economy recovered strongly and found its footing again. Now, as the war drags on, higher oil prices and shaky confidence are dampening the pace of growth and job creation.
 What really worries economists, though, is the future economic impact. ''The longer this war runs, the weaker our long-run growth will be,'' Mr. Zandi said. That is because spending on things like the occupation and peacekeeping in Iraq does not do anything to bolster the American economy's productive capacity. 
 And it adds to the growing budget shortfall. ''With a budget deficit already at 3.5 percent of G.D.P.,'' Mr. Roach said, ''that's a really big deal.''
 To see how big the future economic costs could be, consider a study prepared by William D. Nordhaus, a Yale economist. Back in 2002, when the merits of going to war with Iraq were being debated, Professor Nordhaus published a thorough analysis of the potential economic costs. It has become the most influential study on the topic. (Mr. McKibbin and Mr. Stoeckel collaborated with Professor Nordhaus, and they relied on many of his assumptions to build their model.) 
 Professor Nordhaus calculated how much output the economy would lose, based on two possibilities: a quick victory or a long conflict. Although he has not updated his results, the long-conflict version has turned out to be pretty accurate so far. He estimated that such a conflict would result in $140 billion in direct government spending, a figure that we are already near. He also predicted that oil prices would spike and that heightened uncertainty would hurt the economy. In addition, he expected large additional costs associated with the occupation and peacekeeping operations as well as with reconstruction and nation-building efforts. 
 Adding it all together, he came up with a whopping figure of $1.9 trillion in costs during the decade after the invasion.
 OF course, any analysis of the war's economic impact over time is not complete without considering the potential future benefits to the United States and the rest of the world. Increased political stability in the Middle East, stable energy markets and diminished global terrorism could pay major dividends. In fact, many people in Washington hope that the benefits will ultimately outweigh the costs, however large. 
 So far, though, 19 months into the conflict, those kinds of benefits remain beyond the horizon. And until more time passes, estimating the likelihood and magnitude of those benefits lies in the realm of politics, not economics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Peace Dividend?''A study in 2002 estimated that a long war in Iraq could cost the United States as much as $1.9 trillion including lost economic output.Estimated costs of a protracted conflict in the decade after the invasion of IraqIn billions of 2002 dollarsDirect military spending: ECONOMIC$140 IMPACTHigher oil prices: Macroeconomic$778: Occupation$391/peacekeeping: Humanitarian$500 assistance ($10)Reconstruction/nation-building: $105(Source by ''The Economic Consequences of a War With Iraq'' by William D. Nordhaus, in ''War With Iraq: Costs, Consequences and Alternatives'' by Carl Kaysen et al. [American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 2002])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Anna Bernasek; Warwick J McKibbin; Andrew Stoeckel; William D Nordhaus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRALIA (74%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



569 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Political Points; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1011 words

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:

Secret Weapon For Bush?
 To Bush-bashers, it may be the most infuriating revelation yet from the military records of the two presidential candidates: the young George W. Bush probably had a higher I.Q. than did the young John Kerry. 
 That, at least, is the conclusion of Steve Sailer, a conservative columnist at the Web magazine Vdare.com and a veteran student of presidential I.Q.'s. During the last presidential campaign Mr. Sailer estimated from Mr. Bush's SAT score (1206) that his I.Q. was in the mid-120's, about 10 points lower than Al Gore's. 
 Mr. Kerry's SAT score is not known, but now Mr. Sailer has done a comparison of the intelligence tests in the candidates' military records. They are not formal I.Q. tests, but Mr. Sailer says they are similar enough to make reasonable extrapolations.
 Mr. Bush's score on the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test at age 22 again suggests that his I.Q was the mid-120's, putting Mr. Bush in about the 95th percentile of the population, according to Mr. Sailer. Mr. Kerry's I.Q. was about 120, in the 91st percentile, according to Mr. Sailer's extrapolation of his score at age 22 on the Navy Officer Qualification Test.
 Linda Gottfredson, an I.Q. expert at the University of Delaware, called it a creditable analysis said she was not surprised at the results or that so many people had assumed that Mr. Kerry was smarter. ''People will often be misled into thinking someone is brighter if he says something complicated they can't understand,'' Professor Gottfredson said.
 Many Americans still believe a report that began circulating on the Internet three years ago, and was quoted in ''Doonesbury,'' that Mr. Bush's I.Q. was 91, the lowest of any modern American president. But that report from the non-existent Lovenstein Institute turned out to be a hoax. 
 You might expect Kerry campaign officials, who have worried that their candidate's intellectual image turns off voters, to quickly rush out a commercial trumpeting these new results, but for some reason they seem to be resisting the temptation.
 Upon hearing of their candidate's score, Michael Meehan, a spokesman for the senator, said merely: ''The true test is not where you start out in life, but what you do with those God-given talents. John Kerry's 40 years of public service puts him in the top percentile on that measure.''

A Nader Nibble From the Right
 The commercial made its national debut on Thursday on the Fox News Channel, aimed directly at Mr. Bush's Republican base. It starts with a middle-aged man disgustedly dropping his Wall Street Journal on the kitchen table. ''What kind of conservative runs half-trillion-a-year deficits? Gets us into an unwinnable war?'' he asks his wife, but adds helplessly, ''I can't vote for Kerry.''
 ''Then don't,'' she says, cheerily suggesting an alternative who is not quite yet a household name: Michael Badnarik, a computer consultant from Austin, Tex.
 Mr. Badnarik is the presidential candidate of the Libertarian Party, which says he could ''Naderize'' Mr. Bush. A recent Zogby/Reuters national poll showed him tied with Ralph Nader at one percentage point each -- not much, but possibly critical. Unlike Mr. Nader, Mr. Badnarik is on the ballot of every battleground state except New Hampshire.
 ''If we have a rerun of Florida 2000 in Pennsylvania, Michael Badnarik could be the kingmaker by drawing independent and Republican votes from Bush,'' said Larry Jacobs, director of the 2004 Election Project at the Humphrey Institute of the University of Minnesota, which has been tracking third-party candidates.
 Mr. Badnarik, reached by telephone on Thursday while campaigning in Michigan, said that polls commissioned by his campaign showed him at 2 percent in Wisconsin, 3 percent in Nevada and 5 percent in New Mexico. 
 He dispatched quickly with most of the major campaign issues. Foreign policy? ''I would be bringing our troops home from Iraq and 135 other countries.'' Taxes? ''I would eliminate the I.R.S. completely.'' Health care? ''Of all the things I want the government out of, health care is probably the first thing.''
 The only issue he ducked was abortion. Although the Libertarian platform supports abortion rights, he said, the party is almost evenly divided on the question. ''It's not a religious issue,'' Mr. Badnarik explained. ''It's a property-rights issue: at what point does the baby take ownership of its own body? I do not have a clear-cut answer.''

Vote Your Way To a Fat Wallet
 The most widely advertised lie this election is probably the one coming from the earnest campaigns imploring you to turn out on Election Day. Your vote matters, they keep saying, but it doesn't. No matter what state you live in, you have a much better chance of being struck by lightning on the way to the polls than of casting a decisive ballot in the presidential election.
 Then why will Americans spend millions of valuable hours casting individually meaningless votes? Are these commercials deluding them into violating the basic economic principle of self-interest?
 Not at all, says Robert Frank, a Cornell economist who analyzes such supposedly irrational behavior in his book, ''What Price the Moral High Ground?'' Most people vote, Professor Frank says, not because they fail to grasp the logic of self-interest, but rather because they consider it their civic duty to do so, and that is a profitable instinct.
 It may seem odd that the people most likely to vote are the most affluent and most educated, presumably the ones whose time is most valuable and who understand most clearly how little their vote means. But their enthusiasm for voting is one reason they are affluent, Professor Frank says. People who like to engage in civic-minded activities tend to do better in business because they are perceived as trustworthy, he says.
 ''We're pretty good judges of character,'' Professor Frank said, ''and none of us would ever want to hire the homo-economicus stereotype that populates most economic models.'' So even if your vote doesn't matter in the election, it could pay off in other ways.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage)Chart: ''The Libertarian Factor''Assuming Libertarian votes would have gone to President Bush in 2000 if the Libertarian candidate, Harry Browne, was not in the race, Mr. Bush could have won Florida easily, and possibly several other states.Florida2000 winner: BushMargin of victory: 537Votes for Mr. Browne: 16,415Iowa2000 winner: GoreMargin of victory: 4,144Votes for Mr. Browne: 3,209New Mexico2000 winner: GoreMargin of victory: 366Votes for Mr. Browne: 2,058Oregon2000 winner: GoreMargin of victory: 6,765Votes for Mr. Browne: 7,447Wisconsin2000 winner: GoreMargin of victory: 5,708Votes for Mr. Browne: 6,640(Source by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); WRITERS (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Third Party Moves (US); Intelligence Tests

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (54%) Libertarian Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN F TIERNEY (79%); AL GORE (58%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Michael Badnarik

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004



570 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today and a four-week bill and a five-year Treasury-inflation pegged security, both tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 1.84 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 2.05 percent, and the four-week issue was 1.62 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TODAY
 Mississippi, $123.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TUESDAY
 Essex County, N.J., $67.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Georgetown County, S.C., $81.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Horry County, S.C., $118.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Virginia Transportation Board, $294.1 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Arizona Transportation Board, $116.4 million of grant anticipation notes. Bear Stearns.
 Baptist Medical Center Special Care Facility, Ala., $155 million of debt securities for Baptist Health. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Central Utah Water Conservancy, $54.1 million of district limited general obligation bonds. George K. Baum.
 Commonwealth of Massachusetts, $801.9 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 Dallas, Tex., Independent School District, $400 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
 Des Moines Metropolitan Wastewater Reclamation Authority, $97.1 million of sewer revenue bonds. BancAmerica Securities.
 Indianapolis Local Public, $220 million of improvement bond bank bonds for Indianapolis Airport Authority Project. Lehman Brothers.
 Kansas Turnpike Authority, $51 million of turnpike revenue bonds. A.G. Edwards.
 King County, Wash., Public Hospital District, $120 million of debt securities for Evergreen Healthcare. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Massachusetts Water Pollution, $340.3 million of abatement pool program bonds. J.P. Morgan.
 Minnesota Housing Finance Authority, $80 million of refunding housing revenue bonds. UBS.
 North Carolina Housing Finance Authority, $65 million of debt securities. UBS.
 North Carolina Infrastructure Finance Corporation, $52.9 million of lease purchase revenue bonds. Legg Mason Wood Walker.
 Sales Tax Asset Receivables Corp., N.Y., $1.8 billion of sales tax asset revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Sales Tax Asset Receivables Corp., N.Y., $701 million of sales tax asset revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 Texas Public Finance Authority, $187.6 million of debt securities. Piper Jaffray.
 School Board of Osceola County, Fla., $68.9 million of certificates of participation. A.G. Edwards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (89%); SALES TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (71%); HOSPITALS (66%); AIRPORT OPERATION (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); KANSAS TURNPIKE AUTHORITY (54%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (52%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); PJC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



571 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Encouraged by Enel Sale, Italy to Offer Stake in RAI

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: ROME, Oct 24 

 BODY:
After the successful sale of 20 percent of the power giant Enel, the Italian government said on Sunday that its next major share offering would be the partial privatization of the government-owned broadcaster RAI.
 ''With the Enel affair closed, the Treasury will now open the RAI dossier,'' Maurizio Gasparri, the telecommunications minister, told a political gathering in the southern Italian town of Sorrento.
 The economic minister, Domenico Siniscalco, said on Saturday that the Treasury had raised 7.6 billion euros ($9.6 billion) from the Enel sale, the third-largest placement in Italian history. 
 Proceeds from the sale will be used to pay down the national debt, which stood at 106 percent of gross domestic product at the end of 2003 and was the third-highest in the world in real terms after those of the United States and Japan.
 Earlier this year, the government announced that it wanted to raise 120 billion euros by 2008 through various asset sales to cut the closely watched ratio of debt to G.D.P. to under 100 percent.
 The Enel placement was the first part of this ambitious project and proved a huge success -- the issue was three times oversubscribed. This enabled the Treasury to price the offering at 6.64 euros ($8.43) a share -- the top of its original price range. 
 Enel shares closed at 6.66 euros on Friday.
 The company's chief executive, Paolo Scaroni, told reporters that the heavy demand showed that his strategy of focusing on the core utility business had paid off. ''We are a simpler company, which is more easy for investors to understand,'' he said.
 The government faces a potentially more difficult task persuading investors to buy into RAI, which has often faced political interference during its 50-year existence and has traditionally had opaque finances.
 Its main rival is Mediaset, which is controlled by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and his family.
 Mr. Berlusconi's government wants to float at least 20 percent of RAI by March. Under the terms of a recent law, no one will be able to take more than a 1 percent stake in the company, which is Italy's largest media group.
 Italy's financial newspaper, Il Sole 24 Ore, estimated earlier this year that RAI was worth close to 6 billion euros ($7.6 billion).
 Besides RAI, Italy owns a wide array of other assets that might be sold off to reduce debt.
 It controls the national post service, Poste Italiane, and the electricity grid G.R.T.N. It owns 70 percent of financing firm Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, 62 percent of Alitalia, 35 percent of the oil company ENI and 32 percent of the military firm Finmeccanica.
 But these companies may not be as easy to place as Enel, either. Italy is reluctant to lose control of companies deemed strategic, and the companies are not all as financially strong as Enel, the former utility monopoly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Electric Light and Power; Privatization; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Television

COMPANY: ENEL SPA (92%); ENI SPA (84%); IL SOLE 24 ORE SYSTEM CONCESSIONARIA DI PUBBLICITA (51%); IL SOLE 24 ORE SPA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Enel Spa; Rai (Italian Television Network)

TICKER: ENEL (BIT) (92%); ENI (BIT) (84%); E (NYSE) (84%); S24 (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (51%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) ITALY (98%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



572 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Accounts

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Nissan North America, Gardena, Calif., a division of Nissan Motor, to the Vidal Partnership, New York, to handle advertising aimed at Hispanics, which had been handled by Ornelas & Associates, Dallas and Los Angeles. Recent annual spending, estimated at more than $20 million, is planned to be increased to perhaps as much as $50 million. 
 Coca-Cola Co., Atlanta, expanded its relationship with Mother, London, by naming the Mother New York office to create a campaign for Full Throttle, a citrus-flavored energy drink to be introduced in the United States in January. Spending has not been determined. Mother creates campaigns in Britain for the Coca-Cola soft drink.
 Carlsberg USA, New Canaan, Conn., part of Carlsberg Breweries, to Cossette Post, New York, part of the Cossette Communication Group, as agency of record on its account, which had been inactive. Spending has not been determined. The change came after Carlsberg took over the American distribution of its flagship beer from Labatt U.S.A., now the InBev U.S.A. division of InBev.
 AARP, Washington, to the True Agency, Los Angeles, as the first agency of record for campaigns aimed at African-Americans. Spending has not been determined. True is partly owned by TBWA/Chiat/Day, a division of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. GSD&M, Austin, Tex., also part of Omnicom, handles the general-market AARP account.
 Blimpie International, Atlanta, to Grant/Jacoby, Chicago, part of the Tungsten Group, to handle its account, which had been dormant. Grant/Jacoby will create an integrated campaign, with a budget of $12 million to $15 million, that begins with television and radio commercials. Kelly, Scott & Madison, Chicago, continues handling the media-buying duties. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (91%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY DRINKS (76%); BEER & ALE (75%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); BREWERIES (69%) Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); COCA-COLA CO (84%); COSSETTE INC (74%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (68%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (59%); ORNELAS & ASSOCIATES INC (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (55%); KELLY SCOTT & MADISON INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (82%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (85%); KO (NYSE) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (58%); BUD (NYSE) (55%); ABI (BRU) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (59%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



573 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Addenda Northlich Wins Finlandia Account

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
The Brown-Forman Corporation's beverage division is expanding its relationship with Northlich in Cincinnati by awarding the agency the assignment to create campaigns around the world for the Finlandia line of vodkas.
 Finlandia has not had a global creative agency of record since 2001; since then, campaigns have been created by various agencies as well as internally. 
Although spending has not been determined, it will be increased significantly in markets including the United States, the company said. TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres, said that about $1 million was spent to advertise Finlandia in major media during 2002 and 2003 in the United States.
 Brown-Forman became familiar with Northlich while working on brand strategy for the last six months with the agency's Brandstorm division, said Mark Overdyk, senior vice president and global general manager for Finlandia in Louisville, Ky. He praised Brandstorm's ideas for marketing Finlandia for reflecting that the brand ''is in different stages in different countries,'' from first among imported vodkas in markets like Poland to fifth in the United States.
 As for anyone who may be surprised that Brown-Forman would award a worldwide assignment to an agency in Cincinnati, Mr. Overdyk said: ''The geography is not an issue. Frankly, it's more the quality of the people than where they're based. On Jack Daniel's, we've worked with an agency in St. Louis for a long time.'' His reference was to the St. Louis office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas.
 A campaign for Finlandia from Northlich will begin appearing in the next Brown-Forman fiscal year, which starts on May 1, Mr. Overdyk said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); BRANDING (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Alcoholic Beverages; Advertising and Marketing; Vodka

COMPANY: BROWN-FORMAN CORP (97%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (57%); HAVAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Brown-Forman Corp; northlich (ad agency)

TICKER: BF.B (NYSE) (97%); BF.A (NYSE) (97%); HAV (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS316998 ALL OTHER LEATHER GOOD & ALLIED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (97%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



574 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: A San Francisco agency hires a chief executive with experience on the other side of the table.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
IN a push to reclaim a more prominent place in the industry, an agency is crossing over to the client side to hire a leader.
 Publicis & Hal Riney in San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, is to announce today that Karen C. Francis will join the agency, effective next Monday, as chairwoman and chief executive. Although Ms. Francis has never worked on Madison Avenue, she has a lengthy resume that includes jobs with blue-chip marketers like Ford Motor, General Motors and Procter & Gamble, and a brief foray into the dot-com realm. 
 As Ms. Francis, 42, joins the ranks of women in charge of big American agencies, she also becomes one of the most prominent marketing executives to make the switch to the agency side of the table. Among the other notable recent examples is Ann Fudge, who worked for Kraft Foods and General Mills before joining Young & Rubicam Brands in New York, part of the WPP Group, as the chairwoman and chief executive in May 2003.
 The migration of brand marketers to agency executive suites, once rare, is becoming less so as agencies seek to remake their business models to meet the challenges from clients anxious to find nontraditional approaches for reaching consumers.
 ''I've always looked at marketing with the consumer at the center,'' Ms. Francis said in a telephone interview on Friday, ''how all the experiences a consumer has with a company affects the consumer's decision to spend his or her hard-earned money.
 ''The concept of having 20 years on the client side means I know what it's like to sit in that chair,'' Ms. Francis continued. ''I think I have empathy for what chief marketing officers or executive vice presidents for marketing need to go through'' to find the right agencies and work effectively with them.
 Executives once routinely considered Riney to handle their accounts, along with other creatively focused agencies like Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco; and Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore. But Riney has fallen off many lists since early 2002, when it lost the Saturn division of General Motors as a client after serving as its agency since the brand's birth in 1990.
 ''Riney has had such a successful past, new business sort of walked in the door,'' Ms. Francis said. ''I'm excited about creating a team to aggressively go get some.''
 Riney has sought to return to the automotive category since losing the Saturn account, with billings estimated at $300 million, to Goodby, Silverstein, part of the Omnicom Group. But its most recent efforts have fallen short.
 In August, Riney was eliminated from a review for the Kia Motors America account, with billings estimated at $270 million, when the competition was narrowed to four finalists. And twice since December, Riney was among three finalists for an automotive-related assignment only to lose out -- once for the Western regional account of BMW of North America and the other to create a national safe-driving campaign.
 ''I believe Riney did a fabulous job creating and building the Saturn brand,'' Ms. Francis said. Asked if landing another automotive account will be a high priority for her at the agency, she replied: ''Is that the No.1 goal on my list? No. But it certainly would be a lot of fun.''
 Despite the setbacks Riney has endured the last couple of years, there have been some bright spots. In June, the Beringer Blass Wine Estates, part of the Foster's Group, named Riney as agency of record for Beringer wines. Two months later, the Sprint Corporation, one of the two largest Riney clients along with Hewlett-Packard, expanded its relationship with Riney by consolidating at the agency all its general advertising, aimed at consumers as well as at businesses. 
 And Riney is one of four finalists in a review for the Charles Schwab discount brokerage account, with billings estimated at $100 million. A decision is expected next month.
 To help revive the agency, Kirk Souder, the president and executive creative director at Riney, said, ''I was looking for someone who has the skill set and knowledge to be transformational, instead of reinforcing the conventional agency model.
 ''If you're at an agency and don't realize you have to totally reinvent yourself in the next three years, you're delusional,'' Mr. Souder said in a telephone interview. ''I wanted to find someone from the other side of the table who understands clients and their evolving business needs.''
 Mr. Souder, who helped found Ground Zero, a Southern California agency, joined Riney in April 2003. As president, he succeeded Scott Marshall, who was then promoted to chairman and chief executive. Eight months later, Mr. Marshall left Riney, and since then Mr. Souder has assumed his duties while searching for a replacement.
 ''My having to wear three hats made me get busy trying to find a great C.E.O. to partner with me,'' said Mr. Souder, who will continue in his other posts. Ms. Francis said she received a call around four months ago from a recruiter ''asking if I was interested in this opportunity, and I said yes, because the people there are passionate and talented.''
 Ms. Francis has a bachelor's degree in economics from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from Harvard University. She started in brand management at Procter & Gamble, on Crest toothpaste, then worked at Bain & Company, the consultants, before joining Empire-Berol USA, the pencil maker, as vice president for marketing.
 She left there for General Motors, where she served as brand manager for the Chevrolet Venture minivan, as Chevrolet sales and service manager for the Rocky Mountain region and as general manager of the Oldsmobile division. She resigned from Oldsmobile in 2000 to become chief marketing officer of the Internet Capital Group, then joined Ford a year later as president of ConsumerConnect, its electronic commerce operation. Ms. Francis left that post in August 2002 as Ford cut back its e-commerce activities.
 Since then, Ms. Francis has been serving as a consultant; as a member of the boards of companies like the Pella Corporation, the window maker; and as a partner in a winery that is, she said, an hour from the Riney office.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen C. Francis 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); WPP PLC (90%); SATURN CORP (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (52%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (52%); KIA MOTORS AMERICA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Publicis & Hal Riney

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (93%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Karen C Francis; Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



575 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CONSTITUENCY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: GORE AND KERRY UNITE IN SEARCH FOR BLACK VOTES

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER and JODI WILGOREN; Jim Dwyer reported from Jacksonville for this article, and Jodi Wilgoren from Fort Lauderdale.

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Al Gore, the former vice president, sprinted across six pulpits Sunday morning to exhort African-Americans to avenge his disputed 2000 defeat in this deadlocked state, while Senator John Kerry hit South Florida, clapping along with the choir at another black church in Fort Lauderdale.
 The men -- the vanquished Democratic nominee of four years ago and the candidate he was campaigning for -- had the same purpose: to drive up turnout among a critical party constituency in the face of recent polls suggesting some slippage. 
 ''If any of you ever think to yourself that your vote doesn't count, or that one vote doesn't count, you go and tell them to talk to me,'' Mr. Gore said in his first presidential campaign swing to Florida since the 36-day recount fight here four years ago. ''If any of you felt frustrated or angry about what was done four years ago, I want to encourage you not to ignore those feelings. Don't turn it into angry actions. Love thy neighbor. But vote for your future.'' 
 And on Monday, another Democratic powerhouse is set to take up the cause. Mr. Kerry plans to be joined in Philadelphia -- and in a conference call to 1,000 African-American ministers -- by perhaps the most popular politician in black America, former President Bill Clinton, who will then head to Florida. [Page A17. ] 
 Black voters are crucial for Democrats, and the party has been seeking to galvanize them in record numbers this year. But the urgency, with just over a week left in a breathtakingly close race, is also driven by recent polls showing President Bush's support among African-Americans may be double the 8 percent he won in 2000.
 The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington group that focuses on blacks, attributed the uptick largely to an unusual Republican push in black churches and the party's backing of a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriages. 
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said its own polling did not show such erosion and insisted their candidate would make up for any ground gained by the president with new registrations and a sharp increase in black turnout.
 But aides acknowledged that Mr. Kerry, whose home state of Massachusetts is 5 percent black, has struggled to connect with minority audiences in a campaign whose national-security emphasis has often overshadowed domestic issues. ''There was a little bit of reluctance because it's not been a campaign that has focused specifically on the needs of urban America,'' said Mike McCurry, Mr. Kerry's chief spokesman. ''They were waiting to see would he talk about their issues, would he go to their places, would he speak with a little bit of soul. I think we're obviously doing that.''
 But Republicans said they had made inroads by spending more money than ever before on black media and outreach. ''They've given us an opening and we've taken it,'' said the party chairman, Ed Gillespie.
 Mr. Gillespie and Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, credited their improved position among blacks in part to the president's ''faith-based initiative'' to give religious institutions more of a role in delivering social services. David Bositis of the Joint Center noted that his poll also showed stronger opposition to same-sex marriage and civil unions among blacks than in the population over all.
 ''I think Bush's faith-based initiative, combined with the gay marriage issue and also Bush's sort of overtly Southern religious personality has made him more popular among black conservative Christians,'' Mr. Bositis explained. 
 Mr. Gore presented himself on Sunday as an example of the importance of voting. It was a pilgrimage that took him to six Baptist churches on the north side of Jacksonville, where nearly every person in every pew was African-American.
 While he was lacerating in his criticism of President Bush, he scarcely mentioned Senator Kerry, and neither did the pastors who were his hosts. Instead parishioners were urged to prevent a repeat of what Mr. Gore described as the injustice that had been done in 2000.
 Speaking as an unchallenged authority on how fouled up an election can get, Mr. Gore urged his audiences to take advantage of new rules that established statewide early voting, one of the remedies adopted after tens of thousands of ballots in Florida were uncounted or disqualified in 2000. 
 ''I can see there are quite a few ladies here who didn't get up and just throw something on,'' Mr. Gore said. ''You didn't press the snooze button on your alarm. There's an alarm sounding on this election. You don't have to wait until Nov. 2.
 ''If you vote early, you will give them plenty of time to count your vote -- to make sure that there is not any kind of'' -- Mr. Gore paused for a long moment, as parishioners called out ''cheating,'' ''stealing,'' ''thievery'' -- to finish his sentence.
 ''You fill in the blank,'' Mr. Gore said. ''More important, you fill in the ballot.''
 Mr. Gore, who received an extraordinary 90 percent of the black vote nationally in 2000, led a cadre of high-profile campaigners for Mr. Kerry on a pulpit parade Sunday morning. Senator Edward M. Kennedy was at a church in Philadelphia. And Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards, was likened to a Southern preacher by the pastor of the Allen Temple A.M.E. Church in Cincinnati before headlining a rally in Dayton, Ohio. 
 ''We have to get our souls to the polls,'' Representative Danny K. Davis of Illinois told the predominantly black crowd in Dayton, where Mr. Edwards was joined by the actor LeVar Burton, the television judge Joe Brown and the singer BeBe Wyans.
 The Democrats' effort came days after the Joint Center released its poll, which found 18 percent of black voters backing Mr. Bush, compared with 69 percent for Mr. Kerry. In the parallel survey before the 2000 election, Mr. Bush had 9 percent, just above what he earned on Election Day, and Mr. Gore 74 percent. 
 Other studies have shown similar movement for Mr. Bush; the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll gave him 17 percent among blacks nationally, and one poll published Sunday in the St. Petersburg Times showed 19 percent of African-Americans here in Florida supporting the president. Both newspaper polls had large margins of sampling error because of the small samples of black voters.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign aides and other Democrats questioned these results.
 Cornell Belcher, a pollster who focuses on African-Americans, said his surveys in battleground states showed Mr. Bush in single digits. Nationally, Mr. Belcher said, he has found only 10 percent of blacks approve even ''somewhat'' of Mr. Bush's job performance, while 89 percent say the country is headed in the wrong direction.
 Mr. Bositis of the Joint Center said 2000 ''was the ultimate perfect time for a Democrat to run among black voters,'' because the second Clinton term brought marked improvement in African-American unemployment, wages and home ownership, and said Mr. Bush would definitely ''get more than he got last time.''
 Concern about the Republicans' appeal to black Christians over cultural issues like gay marriage was clear when the Rev. Jesse Jackson campaigned with Mr. Kerry at a black church in Miami two weeks ago. Scores of hands went up when Mr. Jackson asked whether parishioners had relatives dying of cancer or in jail, whether they faced job discrimination or studied in second-class schools. But the pews fell silent when he wondered who had a family member wanting to marry another person of the same sex.
 ''Well, then how did that get in the middle of the agenda?'' Mr. Jackson demanded. ''If your interests are cancer, and Medicare, and education, and jobs, and Social Security, and decent housing, then how did someone else put their agenda in the front of the line?''
 Some black Democrats said they expected a surge in turnout that the polls were not taking into account.
 ''What that poll doesn't measure is the enthusiasm and the passion that African-Americans feel about this election, and that bodes well for John Kerry and the Democrats,'' said Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, who has been asked to campaign by Mr. Kerry's side this week.
 ''I think that Kerry's biggest problem is that he is not Clinton,'' Mr. Cummings said. ''A lot of people are expecting a Bill Clinton, and that's not who Kerry is, but on the other hand his heart is right.''
 Mr. Kerry in recent days has been playing up his support of an increase in the minimum wage and other domestic priorities his aides believe appeal to African-Americans. This was the fourth Sunday in a row he had spent in a black church. He earns amens as he recites ''Amazing Grace'' and describes his campaign as a continuation of the civil rights movement.
 ''Vote your climbing of a mountain,'' he said at Mount Hermon A.M.E. Church in Fort Lauderdale. ''Vote the unfinished journey.''
 Mount Hermon's pastor, the Rev. John F. White, promised to lead a pilgrimage to the polls next Sunday after services, and compared Mr. Kerry to Moses leading the children of Israel to the promised land.
 ''For the last four years we've been living in the wilderness,'' he shouted from the pulpit, Mr. Kerry seated by his side. ''There is one who can divide the Red Sea for us and we can cross over on dry ground. You've got a vote in your hand -- use it on Election Day, use it and be liberated and be set free.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Democrats' courting of black voters misstated the surname of the singer who appeared with Senator John Edwards in Dayton, Ohio. He is BeBe Winans, not Wyans.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Al Gore campaigning yesterday for Senator John Kerry at Abyssinia Missionary Baptist Church in Jacksonville, Fla. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 Daron Patterson, right, and Verlinzia Maiden listening at Mount Airy Church of God in Christ in Philadelphia to pleas to vote on Nov. 2. Former President Bill Clinton is expected to campaign in the city today. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); MARRIAGE LAW (61%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); MARRIAGE (50%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (59%) Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Jim Dwyer; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ETHIOPIA (79%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



576 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE FORMER PRESIDENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Is Up And About To Hit Trail

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
With the drama of an injured player coming off the bench in the final moments of the big game, Bill Clinton is emerging Monday just seven weeks after quadruple bypass surgery to campaign for Senator John Kerry.
 With only nine days until an election that is too close to call, the former president is headed for two of the biggest battlegrounds, Pennsylvania and Florida. He is scheduled to appear at a rally with Mr. Kerry in Philadelphia at lunchtime on Monday and a rally in Miami before dinner. He also has an event scheduled for Broward County, Fla., on Tuesday. 
 ''Senator Kerry asked me to do it, and I want to do it,'' Mr. Clinton told Diane Sawyer in an interview to be broadcast Monday on the ABC program ''Good Morning America.'' ''Because it's close and because I think it's important and because the differences between the two candidates and the courses they'll pursue in the next four years are so profound.'' 
 Other events are possible, but aides to Mr. Kerry said they were taking it one day at a time to see how Mr. Clinton held up. It is not clear how robust a performance he will be able to deliver on the stump or whether he will be able to engage in the glad-handing for which he is famous.
 ''How much of a travel schedule he can have is not clear at this point,'' Mike McCurry, a senior Kerry spokesman who was Mr. Clinton's press secretary in the White House, told reporters.
 Mr. Clinton's immediate task in Philadelphia is to light a fire under black voters, but his broader goal is to remind all voters that the economic prosperity of the 1990's, with its 23 million new jobs and $5.6 trillion budget surplus, occurred under his Democratic administration.
 ''What the former president does is offer them a very stark reminder of where this country was just four years ago, in a unique way that only he can articulate,'' Joe Lockhart, also a senior spokesman for Mr. Kerry and a former spokesman for Mr. Clinton, said in a conference call with reporters.
 Friends said that Mr. Clinton, 58, was recovering well from his operation on Sept. 6 but that the convalescence was gradual and going more slowly than he had expected. He takes walks around his home in Chappaqua, N.Y., has had visitors and speaks regularly by phone with Mr. Kerry.
 ''Recovering is a multimonth process,'' one friend said, adding that Mr. Clinton had lost a considerable amount of weight. ''He can tire easily,'' another said, noting that this was normal after such a major operation.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York told a radio station last week that her husband had ''taken seriously all of the advice the doctors have given him.''
 ''He's been a much more patient patient than I would have ever guessed,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''He's doing really well.''
 Mr. Clinton was sidelined during the 2000 campaign by Al Gore, the nominee, who perceived him to be a liability because of the Monica Lewinsky episode, which led to his impeachment.
 But the Kerry campaign has no such qualms. Since impeachment, and several questionable pardons he made as he left office, Mr. Clinton has published his memoir, which became a best seller, and polls suggest that he has rehabilitated his image.
 A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll last week showed him with a 48 percent positive rating and a 38 percent negative rating, which is higher than the ratings for either President Bush or Mr. Kerry.
 His ratings were even higher among independents, swing voters and those who had not yet committed to a candidate, precisely the voters the Kerry campaign hopes he can reach this week.
 Mr. Clinton has a history of doing well in Pennsylvania. He broke a Republican lock on the heavily Republican Philadelphia suburbs in 1992. Speculation about Mr. Clinton's postelection plans mounted last week when United Press International reported that he was interested in becoming secretary general of the United Nations after Kofi Annan's term ends in 2006.
 In response, Jim Kennedy, a spokesman for Mr. Clinton, said only, ''The only campaigning I'm aware of is for John Kerry.''
 If Mr. Bush is re-elected, such a prominent post for a political adversary would be out of the question. But even if Mr. Kerry were elected, no American has ever served as secretary general, and it is widely regarded to be Asia's turn next to supply a leader for the world body.
 The next big date on Mr. Clinton's calendar is in mid-November, when he plans a weeklong ceremony for the opening of the Clinton Presidential Center in Little Rock, Ark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); BUDGETS (67%); JOB CREATION (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; United States Economy; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DIANE SAWYER (53%) Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Pennsylvania; Florida; Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



577 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ENERGY ISSUES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Preach Oil Independence to Unconverted Public

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Both major candidates for president want the country to be less dependent on foreign oil. But whoever is elected will face many of the same challenges that defeated attempts by three previous presidents who hoped for the same thing, experts say. 
 With gasoline at $2 a gallon and American forces uneasily occupying the country with the world's second-largest oil reserves, the issue of American dependence on imported oil has come to prominence only intermittently.
 Senator John Kerry, the Democratic candidate, has promised to ''make this nation independent of Middle East oil in 10 years,'' in remarks that heartened energy experts who favor big changes in American consumption patterns. 
 President Bush, who said in his State of the Union address last year, ''Our third goal is to promote energy independence for our country,'' has argued that Congress should pass his plan to permit some increase in domestic oil production and modestly increase fuel efficiency.
 But experts caution that neither public attitude, economic conditions nor technology provide a clear path for any major changes in oil consumption.
 Public perception is a crucial stumbling block.
 ''Energy independence does not rate as an issue,'' said John R. Boesel, president of Calstart, a nonprofit consortium of companies working on clean and efficient energy transportation technologies. When watching the debates, Mr. Boesel said: ''I just sit there at home just pulling my hair out. Can't somebody talk about oil when we're talking about Iraq? There's this conspiracy of silence about oil.''
 Nancy Hazard, executive director of the Northeast Sustainable Energy Association, said the war in Iraq and high gasoline prices were not enough to interest most drivers in changing what they drive.
 ''You can't get people to make a change unless the thing they're going to is cooler, better or groovier than what they did before,'' said Ms. Hazard, whose organization sponsors an annual race of vehicles that run on alternative fuels.
 So far, rising gasoline prices do not appear to have had much impact on demand. In September, gasoline deliveries rose 1.8 percent compared with the same month a year earlier, when the price was about $1.50 a gallon. Diesel demand was up by even more. Demand for the biggest sport utility vehicles is off somewhat. 
 ''People don't want to do anything different if they don't have to,'' said Richard R. Kolodziej, president of the Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition. He said the wholesale price of natural gas for the energy equivalent of one gallon of gasoline was still under $1. 
 Neither Mr. Kerry's proposal nor Mr. Bush's plan is really new. In November 1973, during the Arab oil embargo, President Richard M. Nixon declared that ''in the last third of this century, our independence will depend on maintaining and achieving self-sufficiency in energy.'' He called for a program to reach that point by 1980. By April 1977, President Jimmy Carter had called on Americans to invent and conserve their way out of an energy crisis. 
 And in 1992, after the Persian Gulf war, President George Bush signed a law that was supposed to nurture an alternative fuel system, so that by 2000, 10 percent of new vehicles would be able to run on something besides gasoline. By 2010, under the law, it would be 30 percent.
 In the intervening years, General Motors built a fleet of battery-powered electric cars but then retired them. Ford produced a selection of natural-gas powered vehicles but recently gave those up too. The automakers have produced millions of cars that are capable of running on ethanol or an ethanol-gasoline blend, but most run on gasoline. Ethanol is not universally accepted, because it takes energy to produce.
 Efficiency has, in fact, increased. For each dollar of goods and services produced in this country, consumption of oil and natural gas has fallen by 55 percent, according to the Energy Department. Consumption of all forms of energy per dollar of goods and services is also down, by nearly 50 percent. 
 And car engines do far more work on a gallon of gas than they used to, by using fuel injection instead of carburetion, four valves per cylinder and other enhancements. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, if cars and other light-duty vehicles, like minivans, S.U.V.'s and pickups, were the same average size today as they were in the late 1980's, and if they had the same acceleration, they would go 20 percent farther on a gallon of gas than the actual 2004 models do. But vehicles have gotten larger, with greater acceleration.
 And while shoppers opted for vehicles that were big and fast, they seldom clamored for anything that ran on an alternate fuel. 
 ''The big auto companies are interested in selling what they can make a lot of money on,'' said Mr. Kolodziej, of the Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition. ''It is much easier to sell gasoline vehicles.'' 
 Some experts say there are several changes that make a push toward energy independence more likely now. One is that worldwide demand is galloping ahead, and no longer driven by the United States, but by China. This has helped push the price of a barrel to a record in dollar terms, although not when adjusted for inflation. Still, experts say that the point at which global oil production peaks is uncertain but coming. 
 ''We're 10 years closer,'' said Dan W. Reicher, who was assistant secretary of energy for conservation in the Clinton administration. 
 Mr. Reicher, who is an adviser to Mr. Kerry, said the effort to carry out the fuel diversification called for in the 1990's was underfinanced, but that Mr. Kerry was proposing billions of dollars to do the job.
 Another change is that in the decade since the last big push to decrease dependence, technological advances in various fields have offered promise for easing the fuel problem. One is in microelectronics, which has allowed hybrid gas/electric automobiles. Another is in biology, where gene-altered bacteria are used to produce alcohol-based fuels from agricultural wastes. 
 But independence from imports, or even self-sufficiency, is not enough, some experts say.
 ''The problem is oil use, not imports,'' said Amory B. Lovins, chief executive of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a consultant on energy efficiency. Mr. Lovins is a co-author of a new book, ''Winning the Oil Endgame,'' which describes technologies to reduce oil use in transportation. 
 He has for years been predicting that a wave of new energy-efficient technologies will displace conventional fuel sources and thus lower demand. He said that eventually the United States would turn to strategies that would minimize oil use, and quoted Winston Churchill's adage that America could always be relied upon to do the right thing after it had exhausted all the alternatives.
 As for alternatives, he said, ''We've worked our way pretty well down the list by now.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''More From Less''It takes about half as much energy to produce the same amount of economic output as it did 30 years ago.ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER DOLLAR OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCTMeasured in thousands of British thermal units per dollar, adjusted for inflation to 2000 dollars.Graph tracks energy consumption per dollar of gross domestic product (Total, From petroleum and natural gas) from 1973-2003.(Source by Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Presidential Election of 2004; International Trade and World Market; Conservation of Resources; Election Issues; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



578 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Iraqi Leadership Warns Of Missing Explosives
The Iraqi interim government has warned that nearly 380 tons of the world's most powerful conventional explosives -- used to demolish buildings, produce missile warheads, and detonate nuclear weapons -- are missing from a sensitive former military installation. A1

Guerrillas dressed as policemen killed about 50 freshly trained Iraqi soldiers as the unarmed soldiers were heading home on leave. The ambush, extraordinarily ambitious in scope and violence, showed a high level of organization. A group called Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia claimed responsibility. A1

The top civilian contracting official for the Army Corps of Engineers has called for an investigation, charging that the Army granted large contracts for work in Iraq and the Balkans without following rules intended to ensure competition and fair prices to the government. A12

Iran Rejects European Proposal
Iran rejected a proposal by Britain, Germany and France to suspend its uranium enrichment program in return for help builing a power reactor and to provide a supply of reactor fuel. Iran's foreign ministry spokesman urged those countries to offer a ''more balanced'' proposal. A14

Triumph for Gaza Withdrawal
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel won a major victory as his cabinet easily approved a plan to compensate Jewish settlers who would be uprooted from the Gaza Strip under his plan for a Gaza withdrawal. A14

Karzai Close to Afghan Victory
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan has effectively secured his position as the country's first popularly elected president. The final tally is not due until Oct. 30, but election officials and outside election observers said there was no way he could now lose his overall majority. A3

Serbs Boycott Kosovo Election
Most of Kosovo's Serbian minority boycotted parliamentary elections, setting back international efforts to resolve the province's future. At issue is whether Kosovo remains part of Serbia or, as the majority Albanians want, becomes independent. A6

Fight Against AIDS in Zambia
President Levy Mwanawasa of Zambia has pledged to make good on a promise to extend antiretroviral drug treatment to 100,000 AIDS sufferers by the end of 2005, despite a health-care system crippled by mounting financial problems. A14

Aftershocks Continue in Japan
Thousands of residents of northern Japan camped outdoors in near freezing temperatures, unnerved by a day of aftershocks from the nation's deadliest earthquake in nearly a decade, a violent jolt that killed 23 people, injured 2,100 and left seven missing. A13

Arrests Made in Mexico Deaths
Four suspects were arrested in the deaths of two American tourists who were killed last week in the southern Mexican state of Guerrero. The case appeared to be an armed robbery. A6

NATIONAL A15-18

Gore and Kerry Speak At Florida Churches
Al Gore, the former vice president, visited six pulpits to exhort African-Americans to avenge his disputed 2000 defeat, while Senator John Kerry hit South Florida, clapping along with the choir at another black church. Black voters are crucial for Democrats, and the party has been seeking to galvanize them in record numbers this year. A1

The nation chose sides early in this contest, and national polls show that just about 5 percent of the likely voters are still not sure about their preference. The undecideds are just a sliver of the electorate, but they very well could shift the outcome of presidential election because the races are so tight in the swing states. A1

Nevada appears to be split in the presidential race. John Kerry visited Reno and plans a big rally in Las Vegas, his sixth and seventh visits to Nevada since last winter, while the Bush campaign has dispatched officials from the Republican National Committee to organize the fight. A16

The two candidates continued a series of bitter exchanges about which would prove tougher on terror -- exchanges that have flared up whenever either has acknowledged that eradicating terrorism altogether is highly unlikely. A17

Bill Clinton has recovered enough from heart surgery to campaign for John Kerry. With just over a week until the election, the former president is headed for two of the swing states, Pennsylvania and Florida. A17

U.S. Oil Independence at Issue
Both John Kerry and President Bush have said the country should wean itself from dependence on oil imports. The issue of American dependence on imported oil has come to prominence only occasionally in the campaign. A18

Battle Over Charter Schools
While some try to persuade voters in Washington State that charter schools can help invigorate education, others believe equally fiercely that charter schools, which have had a spotty record, will ultimately undermine regular public schools. A15

Little Progress on 9/11 Bill
Little progress has been made toward reconciling House and Senate versions of a bill that would sharply limit the power of a new national security director to coordinate the nation's 15 spy agencies. The creation of the job of a powerful national intelligence director was the central recommendation of the independent Sept. 11 commission. A18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Request to Import Flu Vaccine
Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois says he has found at least 30,000 doses of flu vaccine in his conversations with overseas drug wholesalers and wants permission from the federal authorities to import to his state. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Fatal Brain Disease Has Upstate on Edge
The deaths of at least two people from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, commonly known as mad cow disease, have stirred fears in Ulster County, N.Y., despite state officials' assurances that they see no risk to public health. B1

Pattern of Early Release
When Jeffrey McDonald, a sheriff's deputy in Livingston County, N.Y., was freed from prison in 1998, two months into his 18-month sentence in a drug case, the resulting furor prompted an inquiry by the governor's office. The case is strikingly similar to the uproar over the release of former State Senator Guy J. Velella in September. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Red Sox Take Game 2
Curt Schilling allowed one unearned run over six innings, and Jason Varitek started the Red Sox offense with a two-run triple as Boston beat St. Louis 6- 2 to take a two-games-to-none lead in the World Series. D1

Racing Owner's Plane Crashes
A plane owned by the Nascar race team Hendrick Motorsports crashed in Virginia en route to the Subway 500 Nextel Cup race at Martinsville Speedway. Eight passengers and two pilots were on board the Beech 200, and a spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board told The Associated Press that no one survived. D4

OBITUARIES B7

Cardinal James A. Hickey
The former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000. The cardinal was elevated to the College of Cardinals in 1988; he was 84. B7

ARTS E1-8

Election Nears; Talk Heats Up
As the presidential campaign shifts into overdrive the week before the election, so are the nation's radio and television talk shows, which plan to leave no political stone unturned and no talking head or celebrity with even slight political credentials uninvited. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Investigation of Aon
Investigators for the New York attorney general have discovered evidence of deceptive and coercive practices at Aon, the world's second-largest broker of insurance, a person close to the inquiry said. C1

Marsh & McLennan, the world's largest insurance broker, may survive its criminal investigation as long as its outside directors understand that the resignation of the chief executive, Jeffrey Greenberg, will be the first of many changes they will have to make. News Analysis. C1

Safeguards at Newspapers
The recent acknowledgments of circulation inflation by three newspaper companies have prompted other chains to install safeguards intended to bolster confidence in their circulation figures. C1

Hedge Fund Rules Likely
The Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to approve rules requiring all but the smallest hedge funds to register with the S.E.C. and make their records available for examination. C1

Home Web Security Falls Short
The nation's Internet users are confused about computer security, 80 percent of their computers are infected with spyware and almost 20 percent of the machines have viruses, according to a study to be issued by America Online and the National Cyber Security Alliance. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Nourishing the Muslim world; true intelligence reform, or none; Rocky Mountain politics; Brent Staples on needle exchange programs.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E6
TV Listings E8
Crossword E6
Weather B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ARRESTS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); ROBBERY (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); RELIGION (65%); ELECTION MONITORING (63%); BOYCOTTS (63%); WEATHER (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%)

PERSON: AL GORE (74%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ZAMBIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ALBANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



579 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Nourishing the Muslim World

 BODY:
Three weeks ago, the commerce minister of Pakistan came to Washington to meet with his American counterparts. His request was familiar: that the Bush administration lower the odious duties on underwear and shirts from Pakistan, and consider a free-trade pact with the predominantly Muslim country. The response was also familiar: no. 
 In the din of campaign screeds about national security, the exchange did not draw a mention from either candidate. But it highlights a fundamental flaw in America's economic relationship with querulous allies in the so-called war on terrorism. If President Bush wants to reach out to the Muslim world, there are few better things he can do than allow greater access to the American market. Exporting textiles is a critical step for poorer nations to becoming full participants in the world economy. 
 Unhappily, in rejecting Pakistan's reasonable request in favor of protecting a dying but politically powerful textile industry in the American South, the Bush administration missed a chance to put some truth behind its oratory about winning the hearts and minds of the Islamic world. Certainly, Mr. Bush can continue to buy off Pakistan's military ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, with F-16's and money for battling insurgents on the Afghan border. But that shortsighted policy fails to take into account the convergence of economics and national security. 
 Pakistan's biggest industry is textiles, accounting for 45 percent of its manufacturing jobs. Pakistani textile and apparel workers have produced everything from Perry Ellis slacks to Gap shirts. But General Musharraf has enraged fundamentalist Muslims by trying to please Washington on Afghanistan and Iraq. So television images of anti-American fervor in Pakistan often leave companies skittish about doing business there. But the more dependent Pakistanis become on American companies for their livelihood, the less likely they are to join anti-American insurgencies. Washington can help by encouraging American companies, through import duty relief, to remain in Pakistan.
 This will become even more urgent after Dec. 31, when the import quotas that long protected textile companies will disappear. China, with its quick turnaround times and highly efficient factories, could quickly quash all competitors. 
 It's a safe bet that the minute clothing imports from China spike, American textile firms will invoke the protection clause they strong-armed into the agreement permitting China's entry into the World Trade Organization in 2000. It's just as certain that Congress and whoever is president will pander to the American manufacturers. The politics of protection won't change on New Year's Eve.
 He who lobbies the hardest will still get the most goodies. But import duties will replace quotas as the buy-off of choice. So why not offer some economic nourishment to America's few Muslim allies? Bush administration officials say they want a free-trade accord with Middle East countries, and that's all to the good. But they are resisting calls to expand the pact to other Muslim countries. If they are squeamish about a trade pact based on religion, they can initiate pacts with specific countries, like Pakistan, Indonesia and Afghanistan.
 Economics cannot be separated from national security. Young Pakistanis who can't get jobs in factories that export to America sometimes go to training camps to learn how to kill Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TEXTILES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); FABRIC MILLS (88%); TEXTILE MFG (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); LINGERIE (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); RELIGION (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%) Textiles; International Trade and World Market; Editorials; Terrorism; Free Ports and Trading Zones; Lingerie and Underwear

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); CHINA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



580 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE BATTLEGROUND; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Once an Afterthought, Booming Nevada Now Glimmers Under the Campaign Spotlight

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: HENDERSON, Nev., Oct. 22 

 BODY:
It is said that Nevada, the nation's haven for hustlers and dreamers, is like America, only more so.
 And like the rest of America this year, Nevada appears to be split in the presidential race. America's playground has turned into a battleground.
 Most polls show the race to be extremely close here, although a survey this week by The Las Vegas Review-Journal gave President Bush a 10-point margin over Senator John Kerry. Both campaigns dismissed the poll and are still competing as if the state were up for grabs. Mr. Kerry visited Reno on Friday and plans a big rally in Las Vegas on Tuesday, his sixth and seventh visits to Nevada since last winter. 
 The Bush campaign has dispatched officials from the Republican National Committee to organize the fight here, and has hundreds of volunteers going door to door and making telephone calls to ensure that Republican voters show up at the polls, encouraging them to take advantage of early voting sites set up around the state. The Bush campaign is leaving open the possibility of a fifth visit to the state the weekend before the election. 
 And both parties are inundating the airwaves with advertising. In the last week of September and the first week of October, more political advertisements were broadcast in Reno -- the 114th-largest television market in the nation -- than in all but two cities, Miami and Albuquerque, according to Nielsen Monitor-Plus and the University of Wisconsin's Advertising Project. In Las Vegas last week, nearly 1,300 political advertisements were broadcast, according to Jon Ralston, who publishes the most widely read political newsletter in Nevada, The Ralston Report.
 ''The attention this state is getting is just incredible,'' Mr. Ralston said, ''more than anything I've seen in the 20 years I've been here.''
 Until this year, in fact, Nevada was barely a whistle-stop on the presidential campaign circuit. The first visit was in November 1932, when President Herbert Hoover stopped in Elko for a couple of hours on his way to California, said Guy Rocha, the Nevada state archivist. The next campaign visit did not come until 16 years later, when President Harry S. Truman was fighting for his political life. President Lyndon B. Johnson came 16 years later and campaign visits since then have been rare, Mr. Rocha said.
 ''We were essentially small potatoes,'' Mr. Rocha said, noting that until 1984 the state had only three electoral votes. ''No one ever cared.''
 This year, however, the candidates, their families and their surrogates are coming in droves. Nevada now has five electoral votes, and in a closely fought contest they could tip the balance. If Al Gore had won Nevada in 2000 (he lost by 4 percentage points), he would be running for re-election this year.
 The state has roughly a million registered voters, with Republicans and Democrats each claiming about 40 percent. The rest are registered as independents or with minor parties. Democrats have a huge plurality in Clark County, which encompasses Las Vegas and booming suburbs like Henderson that made the region the fastest-growing metropolitan area in the nation in the 1990's. Republicans dominate in Reno and the rest of northern Nevada, including the so-called cow counties of ranches, mines and desert.
 For a Democrat to win Nevada -- as Bill Clinton did in 1992 and 1996, with a boost from the candidacy of Ross Perot -- he must win overwhelmingly in Clark County to offset the Republican vote in the rest of the state.
 Bob Miller, a Democratic governor from 1989 to 1999, said Mr. Kerry would need to beat Mr. Bush by 10 percentage points in Clark County to carry the state. Mr. Miller said Mr. Kerry was competitive in Nevada, but he stopped short of predicting victory.
 ''What's in play here is an energy and a surge toward change,'' Mr. Miller said. He noted that Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat, was facing only a nominal re-election challenge and had devoted a lot of his state organization to helping Mr. Kerry. On the other hand, the state has been leaning Republican for the last several years. The governor and all the other statewide officers are Republicans, as are two of the state's three United States representatives.
 One issue that works in Mr. Kerry's favor is the proposed nuclear repository at Yucca Mountain, which Congress and the Bush administration have authorized but which Mr. Kerry opposes. The vast majority of Nevadans want America's nuclear waste dumped elsewhere. In 2000 Mr. Bush said he would base a decision on the issue on ''sound science,'' then approved the site in 2002 on the recommendation of the Energy Department, leaving many here feeling betrayed.
 While Yucca Mountain may be draining some support from the president, the state's healthy economy is probably helping him.
 The state's unemployment rate is 3.9 percent, well below the national average of 5.4 percent, and 5,000 people a month are moving here to gobble up jobs in the tourism and service industries. Many of those workers are young and Hispanic and tend to vote Democratic. They are balanced by the retirees who flock here for the weather and low cost of living, and who tend to vote Republican.
 The close division of Nevada's electorate was in evidence in the pavilion outside Mervyn's department store in the Galleria mall here in Henderson, one of 16 early voting sites in Clark County. More than 100,000 voters in Clark County have already cast their ballots, with Democratic-registered voters showing up in slightly larger numbers, but not enough to counteract Republican advantages outside the county, according to Mr. Ralston's analysis.
 An unscientific sample of voters this week found them evenly split between Bush and Kerry supporters.
 Debrah Fontenot, 45, a former Los Angeles Police Department officer who retired here two years ago on disability, said she had voted for Mr. Bush in large measure because she approved of his conduct in the fight against terrorism. Ms. Fontenot said she could not decipher where Mr. Kerry stood on a variety of issues and had decided to stick with the incumbent.
 ''As my grandmother always said, trust the devil you know,'' Ms. Fontenot said.
 Leslie Kaston, 63, a pit boss at the Stratosphere Casino on the Las Vegas Strip, said his vote for Mr. Kerry was never in doubt.
 ''I saw 'Fahrenheit 9/11' and I believe a lot of that stuff,'' Mr. Kaston said, referring to the anti-Bush movie by Michael Moore. ''I think Bush is a scoundrel and not very smart.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); RENO, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (99%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Nevada; Clark County (Nev); Las Vegas (Nev); Reno (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



581 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Arab and Jewish Votes

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
You have to give credit to Arab-Americans, and to the overlapping category of American Muslims, for knowing what side they are on in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- and for voting for those they believe would address their concerns. 
 Four years ago, they voted almost two to one for George W. Bush, thinking he would act like his father. Today, according to the Zogby poll, American Muslim voters are going 10 to 1 in the opposite political direction -- for John Kerry over Bush. Not only do they see Bush's Patriot Act as discriminatory, most of these Americans dislike the president's unwavering support of Israel -- including his backing of Ariel Sharon's security fence and the diplomatic isolation of Yasir Arafat. 
 This stunning reversal of opinion within a growing voting bloc is having an impact. For example, about a half million Arab-Americans live in Michigan, according to the Arab American Institute; most have turned strongly anti-Bush. That's why pollsters are counting Michigan, with its 17 electoral votes, as ''leaning toward Kerry.'' 
 What about the other voting group that has a special interest in ending the war launched against Israelis after Yasir Arafat turned down the offer brokered by President Clinton? 
 Jewish American voters who differ with their Arab and Muslim compatriots, one might logically conclude, would seriously consider supporting the candidate who many Israelis believe has been their best friend in the White House. 
 But such logic is misleading. Four years ago, candidate Bush received 20 percent of the ''Jewish vote,'' about halfway between the low point for a Republican candidate (5 percent for Goldwater) and the high point (39 percent for Reagan). Today, it appears that Bush is getting only slightly more than the 20 percent of last time. 
 Despite the fact that this president has firmly backed Israel's vigorous self-defense -- and time and again vetoed or denounced lopsided U.N. votes to ostracize Israel -- 8 out of 10 Jewish American voters will still vote as a bloc to oust him. 
 Why? To hold the bloc's usual support, Kerry has me-tooed every policy decision Bush has made affecting Israel -- finding old armistice lines ''unrealistic,'' keeping Jerusalem undivided, favoring Arafat's isolation. Though at first he told an Arab-American audience that Israel's security fence was ''a barrier to peace,'' Kerry changed his mind to comport with Bush's support of Ariel Sharon's plan.
 Kerry can legitimately point to dozens of pro-Israel votes. But the essence of his foreign policy -- to rely on alliances with France, Germany, Russia and the U.N. to combat terror and enforce the peace -- requires accommodation with the central demand of these Arab-influenced entities to lean heavily on Israel to make the very concessions Kerry now says he's against. No Kerry heat on Israel, no grand new global alliance.
 One answer to the ''why?'' posed above is that most Jewish Americans quite properly base their vote on issues like social justice, civil liberty, economic fairness and not primarily on what may be good for Israel. That's been especially true when democratic Israel, like the U.S., has had a close hawk-dove split. 
 But now, the great majority of Israelis and Americans are behind Sharon's decision to pull 7,000 settlers out of Gaza. Because a zealous Jewish minority opposes giving up an inch of revered land, Israel is under great internal strain. Some rabbis are urging soldiers to disobey orders, tearing at the fabric of a Jewish state. Israel needs an ally, not a broker. 
 Kerry has lately echoed Bush's support of Sharon's daring plan of unilateral disengagement. But it is Bush who has the four-year record of standing up for Israel's right of self-defense. He has earned the trust of Israelis at a time when they most need a stalwart ally to make this plan succeed -- and to help turn Palestine into a peaceful neighboring state. 
 Most Arab-Americans and U.S. Muslims, as is their right, disparage Sharon's plan. But in getting out of Gaza, the national interests of the U.S. and Israel are in accord. 
 As one who has all his life been a political minority within an ethnic minority, I hope that other longtime supporters of Israel will -- at this moment of its political trial -- allow themselves to give a little added weight in their voting decisions to candidates most likely to help gain a secure peace in the Middle East. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); RELIGION (91%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VETO (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PATRIOT ACT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (71%) Palestinians; United States International Relations; Palestinians; Arab-Americans; Islam; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004; Jews; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); BILL CLINTON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; William Safire

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



582 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Still a Puzzle for the Undecided, A Pivotal Few Among Voters

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER; Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mary Ellen Bower can hardly miss the signs that October is all but gone and that she is nearly out of time to make a decision on the presidential election. Along the streets of Ambler, Pa., a comfortable suburb northwest of Philadelphia, ranks of pumpkins and store-bought ghouls sit on every other lawn, often between Kerry/Edwards or Bush/Cheney placards. 
 That is just about where Ms. Bower, 41, stands, too: between the candidates. The mother of two young children, she is a registered nurse who works in a hospital. As she chats in the driveway about the election, her son, Thomas, 5, waits for a ride to tae kwon do.
 Ms. Bower voted for George W. Bush in 2000 but said she was hesitant about turning to him again. She is concerned about the high cost of ordinary health care. The war in Iraq has fractured this country, she said, at huge expense. Even so, she is skeptical about Senator John Kerry, and what he might accomplish. Most of all, she worries about changing the national leadership while soldiers are abroad. 
 ''I talk to a lot of people who seem to feel this way,'' she said. ''Pushed and pulled between these arguments about who is telling the truth. Sometimes I think we're in a majority.'' 
 Actually, they are a small minority, fractional in number, but pivotal in weight. The nation chose sides early in this contest, and national polls show that just about 5 percent of the likely voters are still not sure about their preference. That figure has fluctuated slightly over the last year, but as early as February, it stood at 6 percent, according to a New York Times/CBS poll. While the undecideds are just a sliver of the electorate, they very well could determine the outcome of the election because the races are so tight in a number of states.
 In past elections, a bloc of undecided voters late in the campaign has often, though not always, meant bad news for the incumbents because by large majorities, they voted for change. ''It's not so clear either way this time,'' said Celinda Lake, who has been conducting national polls for advocacy groups aligned with the Democrats. ''That is because while they are not happy with the status quo, they are also looking for a strong leader and because they have doubts about both candidates,'' Ms. Lake said. Nevertheless, she said, the safe bet would be that a majority would turn to Mr. Kerry. 
 From the perspective of the Bush campaign, the undecided voters are most likely to be moderate to conservative, and that means either they will stay home or split between the two candidates, said Matthew Dowd, the chief strategist for the Bush-Cheney campaign. ''There are no liberal undecided voters,'' Mr. Dowd said.
 In conversations here in Pennsylvania, and in telephone interviews with voters in five contested states, many said they had a candidate in mind but had not yet settled on their final decision. As much as any single issue, the risks of change -- or of standing pat -- emerged most often as a theme when people were thinking out loud about politics. And their decisions seemed to be slowed not by a shortage of opinions, but by a surplus. 
 None of them thought the country was unequivocally moving in the right direction. The Iraq war, all but one said, now appears to be a mistake. Even so, many were concerned that changing a president during a complicated military engagement could undermine the troops, or might make the country more vulnerable to terrorists. The Bush tax cuts puzzled some, but delighted others. Many were staggered by higher health care costs, but a few suspected that Mr. Kerry's health plan amounted to socialized medicine.
 ''It seems like every day, I'm changing my mind,'' said Victoria Lichtman, 50, of Delray Beach, Fla. Ms. Lichtman said the president, whom she did not support in 2000, had done a poor job on the environment, as Mr. Kerry has charged. But, she wondered, was Mr. Kerry proposing a form of government-controlled medicine, as the president has claimed? The war started by Mr. Bush breaks her heart, Ms. Lichtman said, but would Mr. Kerry swing too far in the other direction? 
 Word has spread among friends and family that she has not made up her mind, and many have called to woo her, said Ms. Lichtman, an artist who works in Internet music sales.
 ''They have heard that I'm not against Bush -- they are horrified,'' she said. ''It's like I'm excommunicated. They're calling me up and saying, let me win you back. It's not that they're for Kerry -- it's that they are against Bush.''
 In St. Louis, Doug Newton, 37, a high school history teacher, said he was leaning toward Mr. Bush. ''The concrete is still a little soft,'' he said. ''Anything could happen. I'm a supporter of our actions in Iraq, even though the weapons of mass destruction have not been found, and may never be found. I kind of feel like I know where Bush stands and what he is for. To me, Kerry is more of a guy who is against things.''
 For him and for his wife, he said, security was a critical issue. ''That's why I tend to go with the veterans, and went with Gore in 2000,'' he said, and even though Mr. Kerry served in the Navy, Mr. Newton had some doubts about his willingness to buck world opinion.
 Kimberly Parmer, 33, who works as a human resources manager in western Michigan, said the emphasis on national security issues had distorted the campaign. 
 ''I don't think terrorism is as big a threat as everyone is making it out to be,'' Ms. Parmer said. ''Yes, we have had a couple of incidents, but other countries have hundreds every year. Iraq is important, but so are things like Social Security and Medicare. Neither one has really touched on those subjects because no one is going to be happy, no matter what you do.''
 Ms. Parmer, who said she is firmly planted in ''the very low middle class,'' also saw the Bush tax cut as poorly timed. She normally votes for Democrats, she said, but is not sure this time.
 ''One is too polished; the other one, I think to be honest, I don't know how he ever got to be president,'' Ms. Parmer said. ''I am really surprised he has gotten as far as he has in life. I do think he's honest.''
 Even so, Ms. Parmer said, she thought she might vote for Mr. Bush. ''If you actually look at him, and he stands up next to Kerry, you just kind of feel sorry for him,'' she said. ''I feel he's more of an underdog, he's had a hard go of it in the last four years.'' 
 Another voter who has shifted between the two candidates, and was leaning, at last look, in Mr. Bush's direction, was Caran Gottlieb, 42, an occupational therapist who lives in Pompano Beach, Fla. ''My concern, with Bush, there is no more middle class,'' Ms. Gottlieb said. ''The tax benefits all seem to go to the upper echelon. But he is good with foreign policy. I feel he can speak well on that issue. Not literally 'speak well.' I meant he has a good voice for foreign policy.''
 She saw the film, ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' and while recognizing that its director, Michael Moore, had not meant to praise Mr. Bush, speculated that his family's business ties with Saudi Arabian concerns could be a plus for the country.
 ''I don't know if it's because of all his dealing with the Saudis, the private sector, I feel he has a good relationship'' with leaders in the Middle East, Ms. Gottlieb said. In 2000, she voted for Mr. Bush, primarily because she thought he would be a strong ally of Israel, and said that would be an important consideration this year.
 At her job, she hears plenty from people who realize that she has wavered. ''The ones that are pro-Bush really try to sway you to them. I find it amusing,'' she said. ''From an economic standpoint, they think he'd be much better. They come from money. When you are in the upper middle class and you make a lot of money, or your husband is making a lot of money, that's how you think.''
 Indecision, of course, will come to an end on Nov. 2, if not earlier. Last week in Montgomery County, Pa., where Ambler is located, Brian Stedge-Stroud, a canvasser from America Coming Together, an organization that supports Democrats, knocked on the door of Rick Denzien, a professional musician. Mr. Denzien said he voted for Ralph Nader in 2000 but has ruled out Mr. Nader this year. ''It's either going to be Kerry or one of those antitax guys, the libertarians,'' Mr. Denzien said. ''The vote was so close and split in 2000, that's how Bush pulled this off.''
 To Mr. Stedge-Stroud, that did not sound all that undecided. ''Would you be interested in volunteering?'' he asked.
 ''Where do I sign?'' asked Mr. Denzien, a mind suddenly made up.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Doug Newton, who is a history teacher in St. Louis, said security was a big issue for him and for his wife. (Photo by Tim Parker for The New York Times)
 Victoria Lichtman, left, of Delray Beach, Fla., and Caran Gottlieb of Pompano Beach, Fla., said they had not yet decided whom they will vote for in the presidential race, but both say they are getting lots of advice. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); CHILDREN (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Jim Dwyer

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



583 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Latest Attacks on Bush Borrow a Page From Scripture

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID E. SANGER; David M. Halbfinger reported from Fort Lauderdale for this article, and David E. Sanger from Alamogordo, N.M.

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Appealing to late-deciding voters in explicitly religious terms, Senator John Kerry used the Bible on Sunday to accuse President Bush of trying to scare America, and said his own Catholicism moved him to help those in need but not to ''write every doctrine into law.''
 ''The Scripture teaches us -- John says, 'Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid,''' Mr. Kerry said, alluding to Mr. Bush's strategy of portraying Mr. Kerry as too weak to defend against a terrorist attack. ''What these folks want you to do is be afraid. Everything that they're trying to do is scare America.'' 
 Rebuking one of the most openly religious presidents in recent history, Mr. Kerry said that Christians believed in caring for the sick, housing the homeless, feeding the hungry and stopping violence but that the administration was not heeding those teachings.
 Mr. Kerry's South Florida swing came on a day when Mr. Bush did not campaign until late in the day, in Alamogordo, N.M., near the site of the nuclear tests that led to the end of World War II. Mr. Bush argued that the war of this generation could only come to an end under his leadership.
 ''He considers the war on terror primarily an intelligence-gathering and law enforcement operation,'' Mr. Bush said of his rival, as several thousand booed the notion. ''You cannot win a war if you are not convinced that you are even in one.''
 The two candidates continued a series of sharp exchanges about who would prove tougher on terror -- exchanges that have flared whenever either has acknowledged that eradicating terrorism altogether is highly unlikely.
 In an interview on Saturday with the conservative commentator Sean Hannity of Fox News, Mr. Bush seemed to forget his lines briefly when he was asked whether the nation would always have to live with a terrorist threat. ''Whether or not we can be ever fully safe is up -- you know, is up in the air,'' Mr. Bush said, according to a transcript.
 Mr. Kerry pounced on the remark late in the day, telling thousands in Boca Raton, Fla.: ''You make me president of the United States, we're going to win the war on terror. It's not going to be up in the air whether or not we make America safe.''
 Mr. Kerry's Bible-based thrust, at first from the pulpit of a black church here and later in a lengthy speech on values, was the latest effort by the Democratic candidate, who is generally reticent about his religious beliefs, to demonstrate his core principles to religious voters.
 At the very least, Mr. Kerry demonstrated a wide liturgical reach, quoting from Matthew, James, John, Luke, the Ten Commandments and ''Amazing Grace'' before recalling for cheering Jews in Boca Raton how he once shouted ''the Israeli people lives'' in Hebrew atop Masada.
 In a particularly partisan talk from the pulpit of the Mount Hermon A.M.E. Church here, Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had chosen profits for drug companies over lower prices for the elderly and had spurned veterans and the unemployed while giving tax cuts to the rich.
 ''Oh, no, they didn't choose the least among us, they chose the most powerful among us,'' he said. ''They keep on thinking it's the most powerful who deserve the most, some kind of entitlement.''
 But it was in his afternoon speech in a concert hall here, where Mr. Kerry did not mention Mr. Bush's name except to ask for prayers for whomever won the election, that his audience erupted in thunderous chants of ''No more Bush!''
 In the speech, Mr. Kerry alluded to his own religious upbringing, which he said was ''put to the test'' in Vietnam, as some of his closest friends were killed in combat.
 ''Faith was as much a part of our daily lives as the battle was,'' he said. ''I prayed, as we all did. And I even questioned how all the terrible things that I saw could fit into God's plan. But I got through it. And I came home with a sense of hope and a belief in a higher purpose.''
 Mr. Kerry said his faith meant ''holding to a vision of a society of the common good.''
 ''Catholics call this solidarity,'' he said, adding that as president, ''I will put middle-class families, and those who are struggling to join the middle class, ahead of the interests of the well-to-do and the well-connected.''
 A senior adviser, Mike McCurry, said the speech was aimed at middle-of-the-road, churchgoing voters who like Mr. Kerry's talk of change but are unsure about him personally. 
 ''We know that Americans are a very faithful people; the vast majority believe in God and worship,'' Mr. McCurry said. ''Over 70 percent tell pollsters routinely that they want a president who is deeply grounded in faith and speaking to those issues.''
 Mr. Kerry also answered those Roman Catholics who have said that it is a sin to vote for politicians who, like him, support abortion rights and embryonic stem-cell research.
 ''I know there are some bishops who have suggested that as a public official I must cast votes or take public positions, on issues like a woman's right to choose or stem-cell research, that carry out the tenets of the Catholic Church,'' he said, as audience members shouted ''No!''
 ''I love my church; I respect the bishops; but I respectfully disagree,'' he said to a standing ovation.
 The speech was the sixth of a series of ''closing arguments'' that Mr. Kerry is delivering on major issues in the campaign. His last, on Tuesday in Green Bay, Wis., will cover domestic security, aides said.
 Aides said Mr. Kerry would campaign in Ohio or Pennsylvania almost every day between now and the election and said the campaign was dominating the airwaves with far more commercials than Mr. Bush in Florida and Ohio. They canceled plans for a Tuesday trip to Colorado. On Monday, Mr. Kerry is heading to Michigan, which was believed to be relatively safe for him, but where a new poll on Sunday showed Mr. Bush with a five-point lead.
 In Alamogordo, meanwhile, as Mr. Bush spoke under a brilliant sun, castigating Mr. Kerry for everything from his defense policy to Social Security, the president's communications director, Dan Bartlett, told reporters that at the end of the week the Bush campaign would release its last commercial, a direct appeal from Mr. Bush for a second term.
 ''In a very emotional, heartfelt way,'' Mr. Bartlett said, voters ''will see why they have rallied around the president in a post-9/11 world.''
 Mr. Bartlett also argued that Hawaii ''is becoming competitive'' but indicated that Mr. Bush planned no last-minute visit there. Instead, he is headed to Colorado, Iowa and Wisconsin on Monday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, after a speech yesterday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (67%); TRANSCRIPTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Christians and Christianity; Abortion; Stem Cells; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Terrorism

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN A LUKE JR (79%) David M Halbfinger; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Fort Lauderdale (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



584 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Newspapers Initiate Circulation Safeguards
The recent acknowledgments of circulation inflation by three prominent newspaper companies have prompted at least a half dozen other chains to install safeguards intended to bolster confidence in their own circulation figures.
 The new policies by the chains -- including Knight Ridder, the Cox Newspapers unit of Cox Enterprises, and E.W. Scripps -- have all been put in place in advance of Nov. 1. That is the date when the Audit Bureau of Circulations, which acts as both an industrywide clearinghouse and umpire, is scheduled to release March-to-September circulation figures for about 1,000 daily papers. [Page C9.]

I.B.M. Plans Security Indicator
I.B.M. plans to begin releasing a monthly report of threats to computer networks in an effort to establish an indicator similar to the federal government's Homeland Security Advisory System. ''The security landscape today is totally different,'' said David Mackey, a former Army intelligence analyst who now directs the company's Security Intelligence Services. ''Customers want a holistic approach to security.'' [C4.]

The nation's Internet users are confused about computer security, 80 percent of their computers are infected with spyware and almost 20 percent of the machines have viruses, according to a study by America Online and the National Cyber Security alliance. [C4.]

Telecoms Not Impressing Investors
Four years after the collapse of the Internet bubble, phone companies and equipment makers are finally producing steady profits. But their turnaround has failed to impress investors who have lingering doubts about the industry's outlook. [C4.]

Federal regulators will formally approve Cingular Wireless' $41 billion purchase of AT& T Wireless today, according to company officials briefed on the matter. [C4.]

Europe to Review Pain Relievers
A European agency is conducting a review of pain relievers after the withdrawal of the arthritis drug Vioxx from the market. [C9.]

Amazon Rumor Ruffles DVD Rivals
Netflix, the leading online DVD service, recently dropped its prices 18 percent, to $18 a month for unlimited rentals, after its chief executive said that he learned that Amazon would soon offer a competing service. Blockbuster quickly followed suit, cutting its price to $17.50 from $20. Amazon offered no details on whether its movie rental service might come, or when. The company's chief financial officer, Tom Szkutak, said in a conference call with journalists that DVD rental is ''a business we're well positioned to do.'' Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C6.]

Riney to Name Chief Executive
Publicis & Hal Riney in San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, is set to announce that Karen C. Francis will join the agency as the chairwoman and chief executive. Although she has never worked on Madison Avenue, she has a lengthy resume that includes jobs with marketers like Ford Motor, General Motors and Procter & Gamble, and a foray into the dot-com realm. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C11.]

Clash Over Internet Sports Photos
Britain's big football leagues and daily newspapers are circling each other in a showdown over game photos on Internet sites. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 9,757.81 down 175.57Nasdaq composite -- 1,915.14 up 3.6410-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.97 down 0.09The euro -- 1.2648 up 0.0168The dollar -- 107.26 down 1.93

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (82%); JOURNALISM (79%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ARMIES (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); WRITERS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); SPYWARE (74%); CYBERCRIME (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (69%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (67%); ARTHRITIS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (94%); AT&T INC (83%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (61%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (60%); AOL INC (54%); NETFLIX INC (53%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (57%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (83%); PUB (PAR) (60%); AOL (NYSE) (54%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



585 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: How to Make New Enemies

BYLINE: By Zbigniew Brzezinski. 
Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser in the Carter administration, is the author of ''The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership.''

 BODY:
It is striking that in spite of all the electoral fireworks over policy in Iraq, both presidential candidates offer basically similar solutions. Their programs stress intensified Iraqi self-help and more outside help in the quest for domestic stability. Unfortunately, these prescriptions by themselves are not likely to work. 
 Both candidates have become prisoners of a worldview that fundamentally misdiagnoses the central challenge of our time. President Bush's ''global war on terror'' is a politically expedient slogan without real substance, serving to distort rather than define. It obscures the central fact that a civil war within Islam is pitting zealous fanatics against increasingly intimidated moderates. The undiscriminating American rhetoric and actions increase the likelihood that the moderates will eventually unite with the jihadists in outraged anger and unite the world of Islam in a head-on collision with America. 
 After all, look what's happening in Iraq. For a growing number of Iraqis, their ''liberation'' from Saddam Hussein is turning into a despised foreign occupation. Nationalism is blending with religious fanaticism into a potent brew of hatred. The rates of desertion from the American-trained new Iraqi security forces are dangerously high, while the likely escalation of United States military operations against insurgent towns will generate a new rash of civilian casualties and new recruits for the rebels.
 The situation is not going to get any easier. If President Bush is re-elected, our allies will not be providing more money or troops for the American occupation. Mr. Bush has lost credibility among other nations, which distrust his overall approach. Moreover, the British have been drawing down their troop strength in Iraq, the Poles will do the same, and the Pakistanis recently made it quite plain that they will not support a policy in the Middle East that they view as self-defeating.
 In fact, in the Islamic world at large as well as in Europe, Mr. Bush's policy is becoming conflated in the public mind with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's policy in Gaza and the West Bank. Fueled by anti-American resentments, that policy is widely caricatured as a crude reliance on power, semicolonial in its attitude, and driven by prejudice toward the Islamic world. The likely effect is that staying on course under Mr. Bush will remain a largely solitary American adventure.
 This global solitude might make a re-elected Bush administration more vulnerable to the temptation to embrace a new anti-Islamic alliance, one reminiscent of the Holy Alliance that emerged after 1815 to prevent revolutionary upheavals in Europe. The notion of a new Holy Alliance is already being promoted by those with a special interest in entangling the United States in a prolonged conflict with Islam. Vladimir Putin's endorsement of Mr. Bush immediately comes to mind; it also attracts some anti-Islamic Indian leaders hoping to prevent Pakistan from dominating Afghanistan; the Likud in Israel is also understandably tempted; even China might play along. 
 For the United States, however, a new Holy Alliance would mean growing isolation in an increasingly polarized world. That prospect may not faze the extremists in the Bush administration who are committed to an existential struggle against Islam and who would like America to attack Iran, but who otherwise lack any wider strategic conception of what America's role in the world ought to be. It is, however, of concern to moderate Republicans.
 Unfortunately, the predicament faced by America in Iraq is also more complex than the solutions offered so far by the Democratic side in the presidential contest. Senator John Kerry would have the advantage of enjoying greater confidence among America's traditional allies, since he might be willing to re-examine a war that he himself had not initiated. But that alone will not produce German or French funds and soldiers. The self-serving culture of comfortable abstention from painful security responsibilities has made the major European leaders generous in offering criticism but reluctant to assume burdens.
 To get the Europeans to act, any new administration will have to confront them with strategic options. The Europeans need to be convinced that the United States recognizes that the best way to influence the eventual outcome of the civil war within Islam is to shape an expanding Grand Alliance (as opposed to a polarizing Holy Alliance) that embraces the Middle East by taking on the region's three most inflammatory and explosive issues: the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the mess in Iraq, and the challenge of a restless and potentially dangerous Iran.
 While each issue is distinct and immensely complex, each affects the others. The three must be tackled simultaneously, and they can be tackled effectively only if America and Europe cooperate and engage the more moderate Muslim states.
 A grand American-European strategy would have three major prongs. The first would be a joint statement by the United States and the European Union outlining the basic principles of a formula for an Israeli-Palestinian peace, with the details left to negotiations between the parties. Its key elements should include no right of return; no automatic acceptance of the 1967 lines but equivalent territorial compensation for any changes; suburban settlements on the edges of the 1967 lines incorporated into Israel, but those more than a few miles inside the West Bank vacated to make room for the resettlement of some of the Palestinian refugees; a united Jerusalem serving as the capitals of the two states; and a demilitarized Palestinian state with some international peacekeeping presence.
 Such a joint statement, by providing the Israeli and Palestinian publics a more concrete vision of the future, would help to generate support for peace, even if the respective leaders and some of the citizens initially objected.
 Secondly, the European Union would agree to make a substantial financial contribution to the recovery of Iraq, and to deploy a significant military force (including French and German contingents, as has been the case in Afghanistan) to reduce the American military presence. A serious parallel effort on the Israeli-Palestinian peace process might induce some Muslim states to come in, as was explicitly suggested recently by President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan. The effect would be to transform the occupation of Iraq into a transitional international presence while greatly increasing the legitimacy of the current puppet Iraqi regime. But without progress on the Israeli-Palestinian issue, any postoccupation regime in Iraq will be both anti-United States and anti-Israel.
 In addition, the United States and the European Union would approach Iran for exploratory discussions on regional security issues like Iraq, Afghanistan and nuclear proliferation. The longer-term objective would be a mutually acceptable formula that forecloses the acquisition of nuclear weapons by Iran but furthers its moderation through an economically beneficial normalization of relations with the West.
 A comprehensive initiative along these lines would force the European leaders to take a stand: not to join would run the risk of reinforcing and legitimating American unilateralism while pushing the Middle East into a deeper crisis. America might unilaterally attack Iran or unilaterally withdraw from Iraq. In either case, a sharing of burdens as well as of decisions should provide a better solution for all concerned.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Milan Trenc) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); TERRORISM (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ARMED FORCES (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Atomic Weapons; Palestinians

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Zbigniew Brzezinski

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (97%); EUROPE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iran; Israel; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



586 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, Bad News Is Bad News

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Here's George W. Bush's problem. How does a president win re-election when all the news the voters are seeing is bad?
 Polls show the president running even or slightly ahead of Senator John Kerry. But bad news is piling up like mounds of trash in a garbage strike, and that's never good for an incumbent. 
 The war in Iraq is a mind-numbing tragedy with no end in sight. Dozens of Iraqi army recruits were slaughtered Saturday in one of the deadliest attacks yet against the Iraqi security forces. Yesterday an American diplomat was killed in a mortar attack near the Baghdad airport. 
 The latest horrific video to come out of the war zone shows the kidnapped British-Iraqi aid worker, Margaret Hassan, trembling, weeping and begging for her life. ''Please help me,'' she says. ''This might be my last hours.''
 American troops have fought valiantly, but cracks in their resolve are beginning to show. ''This is Vietnam,'' said Daniel Planalp, a 21-year-old Marine corporal from San Diego who was quoted in yesterday's New York Times. ''I don't even know why we're over here fighting.''
 Here at home the stock market has tanked, in part because of record-high oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at its low for the year on Friday as world oil prices streaked ever higher. The cost of oil has jumped more than 75 percent in the past year. With the weather turning colder, the attention of homeowners -- many of them voters -- is being drawn to the price of home heating oil. What they're seeing is not pretty.
 The Energy Department expects heating oil bills to increase nearly 30 percent this year, and that may be a conservative estimate. Thermostats across the country are heading down, down, down.
 Republican campaign officials are worried about the dearth of good news. The flu vaccine shortage has led to price-gouging and long lines of sick and elderly patients, some of them on the verge of panic. Last week we learned that the index of leading economic indicators had moved lower in September, the fourth successive monthly decline, which could be an indication of a slowdown in economic growth.
 The lead stories in The New York Times and The Washington Post on Friday were both about Iraq -- and both were disheartening. The Times said senior American officials were assembling new information about the increasingly deadly Iraqi insurgency that showed ''it has significantly more fighters and far greater financial resources than had been estimated.''
 The Post wrote that, according to a U.S.-financed poll, leaders of Iraq's religious parties are becoming the most popular politicians in the country, an extremely ominous development in the view of the Bush administration.
 These are all stories with the potential to influence voters, and they are not being offset by other, more positive developments. The result has been high anxiety levels among Republican operatives.
 ''If you're asking me if there's a perfect storm of bad news occurring, the answer is no,'' said a G.O.P. campaign strategist, who asked not to be identified. ''If you're asking if I'd like a little rosier scenario to be played out on the front pages and the nightly news, the answer of course would be yes.''
 Unable to counter the bad news with stories of major successes, the Bush campaign has turned almost exclusively to the so-called war against terror. The message in a nutshell: be very afraid.
 A Bush campaign commercial released a few days ago shows wolves advancing menacingly toward the camera. A voice in the ad says, ''Weakness attracts those who are waiting to do America harm.''
 At the same time, the Republican Party is doing what it can in key states to block as many Democratic votes as possible. Party officials have mounted a huge organized effort to challenge -- some would say intimidate -- voters in states like Ohio and Florida, in a bid to offset the effects of huge voter registration drives and a potentially heavy turnout of voters opposed to Mr. Bush and his policies.
 Election officials in Ohio said they'd never seen such a large drive mounted to challenge voters on Election Day.
 Voter suppression is a reprehensible practice. It's a bullet aimed at the very heart of democracy. But the G.O.P. evidently considers it an essential strategy in an environment with so little positive news.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ARMIES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); HEATING OIL PRICES (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); THERMAL SENSORS (62%); INFLUENZA (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%); ANTIVIRALS (50%); VACCINES (50%); AGING (50%); DRUG SHORTAGES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004



587 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Free Care For the Poor Varies Widely In Nassau

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Nassau County's first study of charity care in 12 local hospitals shows a wide range in the amount of free treatment given to poor patients.
 The largest amount was at Nassau's biggest hospital, North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset and its sibling in Syosset. Together they provided $34.6 million in charity care last year, according to the report from the Nassau County Health Department. 
 The smallest amount was at South Nassau Communities Hospital, $458,686. In its defense, the hospital said that it gave another $10 million in uncompensated services last year that did not qualify under the county's definition of charity care.
 The report said that the disparities ''cannot be fully explained by the differences in hospital size, discharges or services offered.'' The report added: ''Much of the difference is due to hospital location, historic referral patterns and, in the case of the Nassau University Medical Center, a historic mission of caring for persons regardless of ability to pay. A substantial part of the difference may also be due to differences in how charity care is defined, accounted for and reported.'' Nassau University Medical Center is the only public hospital in Nassau.
 Representing the industry, the Nassau-Suffolk Hospital Council praised the program but complained that the county definitions focus on cases in which charity status is determined before or at the time of treatment, ignoring emergencies and other cases where charity status is decided later.
 County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi said that ''there's a lot of work that has to be done'' in refining and analyzing the figures. Noting that some hospitals rejected more than half the charity applications, while others accepted all applications, he asked if the disparity resulted from policies that were too strict or too lax.
 Nassau claims to be only the second municipality in the nation to regulate and promote charity care, following San Francisco. ''Nassau County is on the cutting edge,'' said Nassau's health commissioner, Dr. David Ackman. A similar program is being proposed in Suffolk County.
 To qualify for nonprofit status, hospitals have to provide benefits like free care, but there are no detailed rules. In New York, state aid partly reimburses the hospitals for such losses.
 Critics say that some hospitals discourage nonpaying patients, steering them to public hospitals that turn no one away.
 Nassau's law requires hospitals to clearly post the availability of free care and make applications available. All 12 hospitals are complying, many with signs in Spanish as well as English, the report said. The county estimates that 130,000 residents do not have adequate health insurance.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Charity Care''Free medical care for the poor or uninsured provided by hospitals on Long Island in 2003.Billing price of careIn millionsSouth Nassau Communities Hospital: $ 0.5New Island Hospital: 0.7St. Francis Hospital: 0.8Winthrop-University Hospital: 1.2Franklin Hospital Medical Center: 1.7Mercy Medical Center: 1.8Long Beach Medical Center: 2.4North Shore University, Plainview: 3.2North Shore University, Glen Cove: 9.0Nassau University Medical Center: 12.7North Shore University, Manhasset and Syosset (combined): 34.6(Source by Nassau County Health Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%) Medicine and Health; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hospitals; Finances

ORGANIZATION: North Shore University Hospital (Manhasset, NY); South Nassau Communities Hospital

PERSON: Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



588 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Strong Demand As Italy Sells Utility Shares

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

DATELINE: MILAN, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Shares of Enel, the dominant electricity company in Italy, had their biggest gain in seven months on Monday, the first day of trading after the Italian government sold shares worth 7.6 billion euros ($9.6 billion) in the company.
 The government priced the shares sold this weekend at 6.64 euros each, just below Friday's closing price of 6.66 euros.
 On Monday, the shares rose 2.5 percent to close at 6.83 euros. Enel now has a market value of 41.6 billion euros ($52.5 billion). 
 The success of the share sale -- the government sold the stock at the top of the previously indicated price range and investors sought three times the number of shares that were put on sale -- is likely to ease the sale of other government assets to raise money to pay down Italy's debt, which is more than a year's worth of gross domestic product.
 The communications minister, Maurizio Gasparri, confirmed that with the Enel sale completed, the government would consider an initial sale in RAI, the government-owned television and radio company.
 The government wants to raise about 100 billion euros by 2008 by selling assets. Other assets that could end up on the block include the national postal service as well as stakes in the airline Alitalia, the military contractor Finmeccanica and Eni, the oil company.
 But at least one fund manager cautioned against expecting the same from other sales.
 ''The success of Enel is a good sign,'' said Gaetano Marino, a fund manager with Reali & Associati in Milan. ''But every new government share sale is going to be different because the companies have different characteristics.'' 
 ''Enel is a solid company with a strong cash flow that comes from the fact that it is a utility,'' Mr. Marino said. ''The postal service has some similar characteristics, but that isn't the case for a media company like RAI.''
 The government of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has made liberal use of other one-time measures besides asset sales, including tax and building amnesties, to control its finances. Italy owes more money than any other country in the world except the United States and Japan, both of which have economies many times the size of Italy's. 
 Standard & Poor's lowered Italy's credit rating early this year, citing the governments excessive use of one-time measures.
 The Enel share sale was the third by the Italian government, which still owns 30 percent of the company and first sold a stake, worth 16.6 billion euros, in November 1999. The government sold to private investors twice as many Enel shares as originally planned, 40 percent of the total, with institutional investors getting the remaining 60 percent.
 The heavy demand, Mr. Marino said, indicated that investors were willing to invest in the stock market if they could buy into a company they consider to be a relatively safe investment.
 More than 100,000 Italian investors were left holding worthless shares in Parmalat in December after the company collapsed.
 ''What this Enel share sale has shown us is that people want a higher return than government bonds give, but they want to invest in a company like Enel that comes with a government guarantee,'' Mr. Marino said. ''Enel is the anti-Parmalat.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); POSTAL SERVICE (70%); TRENDS (68%) Electric Light and Power; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Privatization; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; Television

COMPANY: ENEL SPA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Enel Spa; Rai (Italian Television Network)

TICKER: ENEL (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (92%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) Eric Sylvers; Maurizio (Min) Gasparri

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (99%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Italy; Italy

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



589 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: In Case of the Falling Face, Gravity Is Acquitted

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Pull up your cheeks and you may briefly remove some years from that reflection in the mirror. But is it accurate to blame the forces of gravity for the havoc that aging wreaks on youthful features? Probably not.
 A new study suggests that gravity's role in aging has been exaggerated, and that the downward migration of facial skin over time is merely an illusion. The real culprit, the study found, is the loss of volume underneath the skin. 
 ''People assume that the face falls because when you pull back on the cheeks everything looks better,'' said Dr. Val Lambros, a plastic surgeon in California and the author of the new study, which has not yet been published. ''If you look closely you can see that different points on the face really don't move that much.''
 Dr. Lambros presented the report at a conference of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons in Philadelphia this month. He based his findings on comparisons of photographs of people taken at different points in their lives. Early and recent pictures had to be perfectly aligned, allowing him to track the movement of moles, wrinkles and other facial landmarks. 
 Surprisingly, he said, only a few features shifted over time. The subjects' brows fell slightly and their upper lips thinned. Their jowls became more prominent, but they expanded rather than dropped. Every other feature in the photographs remained perfectly still.
 What actually robs people of their youthful appearances, Dr. Lambros discovered, is something called deflation. ''It's the loss of subcutaneous fat and volume,'' he said. ''It's a deflation of the soft tissue, which you can clearly see in the brow.''
 Other surgeons seem to have noticed this as well. In recent years, more and more plastic surgeons have started using fat injections under the skin to fill out the face rather than stretch it. But the old-fashioned face-lift is not expected to disappear anytime soon. Simply ''pumping up'' a face will not add youth, Dr. Lambros said. In most cases, the procedure is more complicated.
 ''Plastic surgery is not an art form; it's a craft,'' Dr. Lambros said. ''You have to read the face, and see where you need to add and where you might need to pull a bit. You have to do a little of this and a little of that. When you spend time on the details, you get better results.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Facial features stay in place over time, suggesting that a loss of volume, not sagging skin, is the enemy of youth. (Photo by Val Lambros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); DEFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WRITERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%) Face; Plastic Surgery; Surgery and Surgeons; Gravitation and Gravity; Photography; Research

ORGANIZATION: American Society of Plastic Surgeons

PERSON: Anahad O'Connor; Val (Dr) Lambros

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



590 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: When Contraband Prowls Round the Cabin

BYLINE: By ELLEN HURST; As told to Christopher Elliott.

 BODY:
Half an hour into a crowded flight to Phoenix a couple of years ago, something brushed by my feet. It felt like a cat. But I said to myself, ''Wait a minute, I'm on a plane. They don't have cats on planes.'' I looked down, and sure enough, there was a medium-size black cat. It looked frightened. 
 I called the flight attendant and told her that there was a cat under my seat. She was obviously not a cat person, because she bent over and tried to pick it up. The cat scratched her hand and scurried away. She jumped back and lost her footing, nearly landing in a passenger's lap. ''I hope the cat had all its shots,'' I heard her say to no one in particular.
 A few moments later, she announced: Would the cat's owner please come forward?
 No one responded. 
 I heard the flight attendants talking about the fact that there was no cat on the passenger manifest. They speculated it might be a stowaway. It took 10 minutes before a passenger finally 'fessed up. It turns out that she had hidden the cat in a backpack, and it had clawed its way out.
 Meanwhile, everyone on board was trying to capture the cat. Crew members were chasing it through the cabin and grabbing it, but it kept escaping. The cat became so anxious that it began soiling the carpet. The passengers who weren't busy hunting the cat were complaining about the smell. Finally, the cat passed under my seat again and I was able to snatch it by the scruff of its neck. It was trembling and its eyes were about the size of large marbles. I handed the cat back to its owner, and it spent the rest of the flight locked in an economy-class restroom.
 Some passengers stared at the owner, giving her a look of, ''What were you thinking?'' Others were saying, ''Aw, poor kitty.'' The owner kept saying over and over, ''I thought it would be O.K.''
 Even though it was a morning flight, the flight attendants offered me a drink. I declined. I thought they needed one more than I did. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: ELLEN HURST -- Software consultant, Austin, Tex. (Photo by Frank Curry for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRLINES (78%); PETS (73%) Airlines and Airplanes; Cats

PERSON: Ellen Hurst; Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



591 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: China to Consider Resuming Human Rights Talks, Powell Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said Monday that China had agreed to discuss the American request for a new dialogue over the detention of Chinese citizens without due process and other human rights violations. The talks broke off earlier this year because of Chinese objections to American criticism of its practices.
 Mr. Powell also said he had sought to encourage China to have a dialogue with Taiwan to resolve its differences with Taiwanese leaders. But on this subject, Chinese leaders responded negatively, giving Mr. Powell what an aide said was ''an earful'' of criticism over American military aid to Taiwan. 
 Speaking to reporters after a morning of meetings with top Chinese leaders, Mr. Powell said the agreement to discuss a possible resumption of the human rights dialogue came as he again expressed American concern to the foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing, about the arrest of a research assistant working for The New York Times.
 As he had after meeting with Mr. Li on Oct. 1, Mr. Powell said the foreign minister would ''look into the matter,'' but he said he had been told that the research assistant, Zhao Yan, was being dealt with according to Chinese law. ''We did have a pretty candid exchange on the subject,'' Mr. Powell said.
 Senior State Department officials said after Mr. Powell's comments that Mr. Zhao's arrest illustrated the general problem of the lack of rule of law in China, where dissenters and others are often seized and punished without due process, and that this should be the subject of broad Chinese-American talks.
 A senior official said the Chinese improved their human rights record two years ago, but lapsed last year into the practice of arresting people without regard to their legal rights. The United States introduced a resolution criticizing China at the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva this year.
 ''They were extremely unhappy about that resolution,'' the official said. As a result, on human rights, ''we have not been able to have talks, even at the routine level.'' His comments were made on Mr. Powell's plane as he headed toward Seoul after spending a day in Beijing.
 Mr. Powell said he had told Chinese leaders that China had been ''moving backward'' on human rights ''with respect to detention of journalists, with respect to other individuals who have not been able to move about as freely and participate in civil society as freely as we would like to see.''
 He said that for the past year, the United States and China had not discussed this issue ''as openly and candidly as we should.'' He said that one advantage of a broader dialogue, as opposed to talking about individual cases like that of Mr. Zhao, was that it would encompass Chinese concerns about American criticism.
 On Taiwan, American officials have recently been saying that although China has been helpful in holding negotiations with North Korea on its nuclear program, Chinese leaders have become increasingly vocal about American support for Taiwan's government.
 The Chinese official news agency reported that President Hu Jintao told Mr. Powell that it was in the interest of China and the United States to oppose Taiwan's independence. Mr. Hu was reported to have said that he appreciated American support of a one-China policy, but that harm was being done by American support of Taiwan's activities.
 China has claimed sovereignty over Taiwan since the Communist victory in the Chinese civil war in 1949, and has long objected to any diplomatic, economic or military ties Taiwan has with other countries. Despite American support for Beijing's position that Taiwan is part of China, successive American administrations have given Taiwan military aid to defend itself against attack.
 Chinese criticism of the United States has accelerated as Taiwan's president, Chen Shuibian, has started talking about constitutional changes that the Chinese see as possibly leading to independence, something they view as anathema.
 As for North Korea, State Department officials said China was engaging in ''a very active period of diplomacy'' to press the North Korean government to stop boycotting talks about its nuclear arms program. ''I see China as a full participant, and not just as a convener in the talks,'' Mr. Powell said, referring to discussions involving China, Russia, Japan, South Korea and the United States. 
 A State Department official said that with effort by China, it was possible that talks on North Korea could resume in a few months.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Seoul Tightens Security
 SEOUL, South Korea, Tuesday, Oct. 26 (AP) -- South Korea's military tightened roadblocks and traffic checks north of Seoul after finding signs of possible infiltration by North Korean agents on Tuesday, officials said.
 South Korean border guards found a hole in the wire fence that forms the southern boundary of the 2.5-mile-wide Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Koreas, a Defense Ministry spokesman said. The hole was discovered early Tuesday near Yeoncheon, a border town 40 miles north of Seoul. North Korea had no immediate comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); DUE PROCESS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); JOURNALISM (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); WRITERS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Arms Sales Abroad; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Zhao Yan; Li Zhaoxing (Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); SWITZERLAND (71%) China; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



592 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: This Season, Heisenberg Wears a Red Sox Rally Cap

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
I'm the biggest sports fan I know who hardly ever watches a game.
 I was watching a dinosaur movie with my daughter last Wednesday while my Red Sox were completing the greatest comeback in the history of baseball and vanquishing the Yankees. Even as my wife, in the next room, relayed scores posted on the Internet suggesting that Boston was winning, I refused to turn on the game.
 The reason is something I call quantum baseball. It caused me to lose the World Series for the Red Sox 18 years ago, when I realized that I seemed to have terrible powers, powers that could be used for good or evil -- but mostly, it seems, evil. 
 So I didn't watch last week, and it worked. And I didn't watch this weekend as the Sox, hoping to overcome history and fate, went two-up against St. Louis in the World Series.
 As a young man I watched the Red Sox lose to the Cardinals in seven games in 1967. I was a middle-aged unemployed writer in 1975 when they lost to Cincinnati in the most beautiful World Series ever played. In 1978 I raced home from work to see Bucky Dent's home run disappear over the Fenway wall and make the Yankees division champions, ending Boston's season.
 So by 1986, when the Red Sox faced the Mets in the World Series, I had long since learned the lesson: In the end the Red Sox would lose. 
 My gloominess got me banished from watching at my girlfriend's house. So it was that I was alone in my house on the night of Oct. 25, 1986, when I switched on the television to find Boston ahead in the 10th inning of Game 6 and one strike from victory.
 And I succumbed and said the magic fatal words.
 ''I'm about to see the Red Sox win the World Series!'' I exclaimed to my cat. I felt almost dizzy.
 That instant of belief, of course, was what the universe was waiting for. It was as if a circuit suddenly closed and a signal had flashed instantaneously across space-time and into Shea Stadium. Within moments, a wild pitch had let in the tying run and Bill Buckner, the first baseman, let a ground ball through his legs, scoring the game winner. The next night the Red Sox lost the seventh and deciding game. Again.
 What does this have to do with science? This is the science section, remember? Well, that is where the ''quantum'' part comes in.
 About a century ago scientists began to realize that beneath the too, too solid veneer of what had passed for reality for 2,000 years there was some pretty funny and fuzzy business going on. Its central silliness is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which sets limits on what you can know about a subatomic particle. Knowing an electron's velocity blurs its position, and vice versa.
 In quantum mechanics the old Newtonian certitudes are replaced by a mathematical entity called a wave function that spreads throughout space, giving the probability of finding an electron, a ballgame or even the universe in one state or another, one place or the other.
 When we do an experiment, say to find the electron, the wave function ''collapses'' to a particular point in space and time. But before that, the electron has a small probability of being anywhere, the way Tim Wakefield's fluttery knuckleball might go anywhere before plopping into the catcher's mitt (or eluding it).
 Before I uttered those magic words in my living room that night in 1986, the Red Sox existed in a limbo of neither winning nor losing.
 But it's easy to imagine that in baseball, where a quarter of an inch or a hundredth of a second can be the difference between a home run and a grounder to first, the Heisenbergian touch can have a profound effect, and my words -- just the thought -- were enough to collapse the wave function and the Red Sox. The branch of the universe in which the Red Sox are winners split away into some other parallel space, as near as an irrevocable breath, as unreachable as a black hole.
 Now I am aware, on some level, that my fears are silly. Despite its fuzzy chancy foundations, or perhaps because of them, reality on our level is surprisingly robust, and we can't push it around by hoping and praying. Computers and televisions go on when we click the switch. Physicists are fond of pointing out that while measurements may be subject to quantum indeterminacies, the wave function itself is perfectly predictable and calculable. 
 But I'm not the only one who, knowing better, succumbs nevertheless to the shadows of the lizard brain. One of my best friends, an outspoken atheist, admits to being terribly superstitious. Over the course of her life, she says, she has given away a small fortune in jewelry, purses and bits of clothing she decided were jinxed. An editorial in this newspaper last week repeated an old theory known as the Cubs jinx, that the team having the most players who used to play for the Chicago Cubs, an even more star-crossed franchise than the Red Sox, will lose.
 Baseball, like quantum mechanics, is a game of statistics, where we have faith that as the numbers mount over the long run, luck will be overridden by skill and daring. And for a player, it's not so crazy to think that if wearing a particular pair of underpants makes you feel lucky, that feeling might relax you and give you an edge when you're 60 feet from Roger Clemens with a very hard ball in his hands.
 But what do the rest of us get out of our hexes, our lucky caps, our quantum fantasies of influence and control?
 Most of us, I suspect, would rather believe that the devil is running things than that no one is in charge, that our lives, our loves, World Series victories, hang on the whims of fate and chains of coincidences, on God throwing dice, as Einstein once referred to quantum randomness. I've had my moments of looking back with a kind of vertigo realizing how contingent on chance my life has been, how if I'd gotten to the art gallery earlier or later or if the friend I was supposed to have dinner with had showed up, I might not have met my wife that night, and our daughter would still in be an orphanage in Kazakhstan. 
 Anything but the void. And so we keep hoping to luck into a winning combination, to tap into a subtle harmony, trying like lock pickers to negotiate a compromise with the ''mystery tramp,'' as Bob Dylan put it, putting our lucky caps on, turning our bracelets, refusing to look.
 And yet life too seems robust, buoyed by zillions of chance interactions reinforcing and contradicting each other. We are people, with desires and memories and a sense of humor -- not Ping-Pong balls. 
 I contend that I might have met my wife anyway, since we belonged to overlapping circles of writers and artists. And maybe the fate of the Red Sox is equally robust. I haven't decided yet whether to watch the rest of the Series. My friend says she finally subdued her superstitious behavior because she wants her daughter to grow up free and fearless. I'm taking inspiration from that.
 It's a new morning as I write this. I'd like to believe that I've served my time away from the games and that if the Red Sox can throw off the Yankee curse, maybe I can grow up to live without quantum anxiety, and so can my own daughter. Now that Boston is ahead, maybe I'll start watching the Series.
 If the Sox fall apart, you'll know why.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by George Pfromm II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); PHYSICS (63%) Baseball; Playoff Games; World Series

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK METS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (55%) Boston Red Sox; New York Mets

PERSON: Dennis Overbye

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



593 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: From the First, Rochester Ferry Was Burdened by Failings in Fine Print

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
When a gleaming new ferry arrived in port this summer, it was supposed to lift the spirits of this economically depressed city.
 Officials had worked for years on the project, with the city and state investing a total of more than $30 million to make it a reality. The result was a high-speed luxury ferry, the Spirit of Ontario, capable of carrying 774 passengers and 238 cars across Lake Ontario to Toronto in two and a half hours -- 30 to 60 minutes faster than the trip by car.
 ''We look forward to many years of smooth sailing,'' William A. Johnson Jr., this city's mayor, said in June at the inauguration of the privately run service, which he said would attract tourists and make the city an international gateway.
 But after 80 days of service, the $42 million ship was docked and then ordered impounded by a federal judge, its operator deep in debt and creditors knocking at the door. A combination of bad luck and bad planning appears to be largely to blame, and local legislators are calling on the state comptroller and attorney general to find out what went wrong. 
 ''It was a colossal disaster,'' the mayor acknowledged recently.
 It was more bad news for a city that has had more than its share.
 Rochester, a city of 220,000, has tried to redefine itself after struggling with years of layoffs by its main employer, Eastman Kodak, and its chronically high homicide rate. When a Toronto newspaper columnist traveled here last year to see why anyone from Toronto would visit, she concluded that they would not, calling Rochester ''beleaguered'' and ''depressing.''
 Now, with the ferry halted, its owner and operator, Canadian American Transportation Systems, and city officials are accused of ignoring warning signs in their eagerness to move the project forward.
 ''Taxpayers had very little overview and access to the records, and that was a major flaw in the deal,'' said George Conboy, president of Brighton Securities, a locally owned investment firm. Mr. Conboy, who examined some of the plans, said that the developers were better dealmakers than business executives, and that they found a receptive ear in the city's mayor.
 ''The mayor is a very softhearted, well-intentioned man who desperately wanted development for the city,'' he said.
 People here have been dreaming of a Lake Ontario ferry for five decades, ever since two ferry services to Cobourg, Ontario, stopped running. In the late 1990's, two Rochester natives, Dominick DeLucia and Brian F. Prince, took up the idea of developing a high-speed ferry that could whisk people 171 miles across the lake to Toronto.
 The two men, friends since graduate school, had made their fortunes at Lehman Brothers in New York City. They formed Canadian American Transportation Systems and spent several years putting together their plan, arranged for financing from Dutch and Australian lenders. Early on, they won the support of the mayor, who said the project was among his top priorities.
 ''In the upstate area, we don't have many wins,'' Mayor Johnson said. ''We're perceived as gloomy and desperate. This ship was changing all that.''
 One skeptic was William Nojay, the chairman of the Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority, which was originally asked to coordinate and administer the public funding for the project.
 Pressure to approve the ferry plan was immense, Mr. Nojay said. ''We were struggling,'' he said of the city. ''There was a feeling -- and there still is -- that we need to put Rochester on the map.''
 During lengthy negotiations, Mr. Nojay said, he became increasingly concerned. He said that the ferry's backers did not have enough capital and that they fought the most basic conditions, including that their financial assets be verified. They also refused to guarantee that Rochester would remain the ship's home port, Mr. Nojay said, and would not agree to disclose future ownership changes.
 ''Basically, we said, 'This is a half-baked plan; let's develop it further,''' Mr. Nojay said.
 He wasn't the only person who was troubled. So were some local business leaders. ''Very early on, it was too iffy,'' said John R. Riedman, a wealthy insurance executive who looked at the proposal and declined to invest. ''Nobody wanted to disclose anything to anybody. There were a lot of unanswered questions.'' 
 The developers eventually found help from a city agency, the Rochester Urban Renewal Agency, which took over the role as the conduit for the tax money going to the project. 
 The city agreed to invest $16 million in a new port terminal, made other improvements to the port and loaned the ferry company $1.3 million. State officials agreed to $14 million in financing, made up of a $6.6 million loan and the rest in grants. Mr. DeLucia said he and his partner each invested $2 million. Others invested, too, he said.
 The state contribution was less than was hoped for, Mr. DeLucia said, but was enough to get the project going. ''We always wanted $20 million, and we got $14 million,'' he said. ''All the parties -- the city of Toronto, the port of Toronto, the county of Monroe, the city of Rochester and the Australians -- looked at it, and everybody said O.K.''
 By the spring, the ferry had been built in Australia, and the ship set out for its new home at the port of Rochester. En route to Lake Ontario, the ferry hit a pier in New York City in a docking accident and needed repairs. Almost immediately after that, the engine began malfunctioning. 
 For seven weeks, the ferry sat idle. The company took in no fare revenue but kept incurring expenses, one of the largest being payroll.
 When the ferry began service on June 17, it was well received but already in trouble. The company, distracted by the accident and engine problems, was also unable to resolve other significant issues. 
 The company tried but failed to have customs fees waived and had to pay Canada $2,500 a day. With stricter regulations emerging to prevent terrorist attacks, trucks, which could have brought up to an additional $18,000 a day in revenue, were not allowed on the ship. The ship was initially registered with the Bahamas Maritime Authority and not the United States or Canadian government, meaning the company had to carry registered pilots on its voyages. That cost $6,000 a day, much more than anticipated, the company said. 
 The president of Canadian American Transportation Systems, Cornel Martin, said the company had written assurances from various government officials that these problems would be resolved, but they were not.
 By mid-July, the company stepped up efforts to gain state approval for video lottery terminals on the ferry, hiring lobbyists in Albany and Toronto and maritime lawyers in Washington. The efforts failed. Meanwhile, gas prices soared, and the company was unable to pay its fuel bill.
 Ridership increased in the first months, and many trips in August were sold out. Still, the ferry was drowning in bills. ''It was clear by the end of August that financial pressures were building,'' Mr. Martin said.
 When the developers were unable to raise additional cash, they announced on Sept. 7 that service would stop immediately. Ticketholders were not reimbursed.
 But while the ship has sat idle since then, its operators have not.
 Ferry officials say they are working to renegotiate debt, raise up to $10 million from new investors, put a new management structure in place and resolve the bureaucratic issues. In recent weeks, they have won limited approval for lucrative commercial truck traffic, even in the antiterrorism climate. They've also taken steps to reflag the ship in the event that service resumes.
 The Australian financiers, who would not comment, opened the books to Mayor Johnson for the first time after the ferry stopped running. He said he saw no indication of malfeasance. Nor did the developers mismanage money, he said; they simply ran out of it.
 United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, who said he had been talking regularly with the Australian financiers since service was halted, said that the ferry had a 50-50 chance of resuming service and that he remained hopeful. On a campaign stop here on Monday, Mr. Schumer called the ferry ''an important economic engine for the region'' and said, ''We hope to get it back and running as quickly as possible.''
 The company ''made its share of mistakes,'' admitted Mr. DeLucia, who said he was negotiating daily to revive the ferry. Earlier this month, the operator presented a plan to the lenders, he said, and hoped to strike a deal within a couple of weeks.
 That was welcome news to Mayor Johnson, who said: ''Every day, every where I go, people say, 'You've got to get that ferry up and running again.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Spirit of Ontario, which can carry 774 passengers and 238 cars, set off for Toronto for the first time on June 17, but was shut down on Sept. 7. (Photo by Annette Lein/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAKES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); JUDGES (68%); WRITERS (64%); HOMICIDE (64%); CRIME RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TRENDS (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Ferries; Spirit of Ontario (Ferry); Economic Conditions and Trends; Ferries

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Canadian American Transportation Systems

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Michelle York; William a Jr (Mayor) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (95%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LAKE ONTARIO (93%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Rochester (Ny); Toronto (Ontario)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



594 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Shares Down Slightly; Dollar Touches an 8-Month Low

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Crude oil prices kept stocks under pressure yesterday, leaving the major indexes with slight losses. Questions over economic growth and the presidential election weakened the dollar and contributed to investors' uncertainty.
 The value of the dollar slid to an eight-month low early in the day as foreign investors worried that the price of oil and electoral question marks could hurt the economy. Overseas stock markets posted significant declines. 
 While oil prices, which exceeded $55 a barrel for the first time last week, declined modestly yesterday, many analysts say they are too high and will start to weigh heavily on the economy if they remain above $50. In New York, crude oil for December delivery settled at $54.54, down 63 cents, after rising as high as $55.67 during the trading session.
 ''For the first time, you're really starting to see companies mention oil in their earnings reports this quarter,'' said Chris Johnson, manager of quantitative analysis at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati. ''Up until now, high oil prices have been little more than a nuisance for investors. Now, it's shaping up to be a real problem.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 7.82 points, or 0.08 percent, to 9,749.99, its lowest close since last November. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.94 point, or 0.09 percent, to 1,094.80, and the Nasdaq composite index eased 1.1 points, or 0.06 percent, closing at 1,914.04. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was an exception to yesterday's trend, up 3.89 points, or 0.69 percent, at 571.67.
 Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered decliners by 12 to 11. Volume was 1.38 billion shares, compared with 1.48 billion late Friday.
 A strong report on home sales offered some strength to the market. The National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes rose 3.1 percent in September to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 6.75 million units, reversing two months of decline. The figure was better than the 6.51 million unit pace that economists had expected.
 ''The housing data came out and the market bumped up a little bit,'' said Todd Leone, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities, ''but it didn't have a real lasting kind of impact. Today, it's all about oil, and when the futures go down, stocks go up.''
 BellSouth reported that its profit fell in the third quarter on flat revenue, and the company missed Wall Street forecasts by 2 cents a share. BellSouth shares slipped 13 cents, to $26.42.
 The consumer products maker Kimberly-Clark dropped $4.03, or 6.4 percent, to $59.03, after it fell short of estimates by a penny a share, despite a 5 percent rise in profit.
 Kellogg had better news, surpassing Wall Street expectations by 4 cents a share and increasing its profit forecast for the rest of the year. Its stock rose 74 cents, to $43.15.
 The embattled insurance broker Marsh & McLennan fell 37 cents, to $26.42, after news reports said its chief executive was stepping down in the wake of bid-rigging accusations. After the close of trading, Marsh announced that the executive, Jeffrey W. Greenberg, had indeed resigned.
 News of a buyout sent shares of the International Steel Group soaring $5.57, or 18.8 percent, to $35.25. As part of a two-stage transaction that would create one of the world's largest steel companies, a privately owned Dutch steel maker, the LNM Group, said it would buy International Steel for about $4.5 billion in cash and stock. 
 Delta Air Lines rose 54 cents, or 16.7 percent, to $3.78, on hopes that the carrier was nearing agreement with its pilots for further concessions that would help it avoid a bankruptcy filing. Delta also said it had reached financing deals. 
 TXU, an electric utility holding company, gained $8.44, or 16 percent, to close at $61.25, on volume of more than 15 million shares. TXU quadrupled its dividend and said its Texas power unit would earn more. 
 Google, whose stock has been soaring in recent days, added a further $14.97, or 8.7 percent, to $187.40. 
 In the bond market, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 102 7/32, and its yield was unchanged at 3.97 percent. Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.531	98.969	High Rate	1.855	2.040	Investment Rate	1.890	2.090	Low Rate	1.830	1.030	Median Rate	1.840	2.015	Total applied for	$45,374,713	$41,451,001	Accepted	$27,918,733	$25,750,481	Noncompetitive	$1,533,846	$1,023,910	

Both issues are dated Oct. 28, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 27, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on April 28, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Trading assistants at the eurodollar futures pit of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday. The euro rose against the dollar to $1.2804. (Photo by John Zich/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills since July. (October: 1.855%)(Source by the Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Currency; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (80%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Chicago Mercantile Exchange; European Union

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (80%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (80%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



595 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Tries to Repair Its Image in Japan

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Citigroup said Monday that it would close an investment management unit in Japan and pledged to strengthen oversight of its entire Japanese operation, five weeks after regulators shut down its private bank in one of the toughest penalties ever delivered to a financial institution in the country. 
 In an effort to repair Citigroup's tarnished image, its chief executive, Charles O. Prince, bowed deeply before reporters and television cameras in Tokyo on Monday and apologized for what he called ''the company's failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements in Japan.'' Such formal public apologies are expected in Japan from companies accused of wrongdoing and are seen as a necessary first step in repairing relationships with regulators and corporate clients. 
 Last month, the Financial Services Agency, Japan's bank regulator, ordered Citigroup to close its private banking business, which caters to clients with more than 100 million yen ($932,400) to invest, after finding that a lack of internal controls enabled some employees to engage in fraudulent transactions. In particular, the regulators discovered that the office did little to monitor against money laundering and had misled customers about investment risk. 
 After that action, Citigroup decided that it would also close Cititrust and Banking, a subsidiary that provides investment management services and advice on investing in real estate to wealthy individuals and institutions. Citigroup said in a statement that it had found ''internal control, compliance and governance issues in that subsidiary.'' 
 The bank is worried that the Cititrust unit, which employs about 150 people, might be found in violation of ''fire wall'' regulations that outline the kinds of products and services that can be offered by banks, brokerage and other financial firms, according to a Citigroup official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 Together the Japanese private banking operation and the Cititrust unit make up only a tiny part of Citigroup's sprawling international operations. So the closings are not expected to have a noticeable effect on the bank's net profit, which was $17 billion last year. 
 But Citigroup's image has been damaged by the action against its private banking operation in Japan, the world's second-largest economy, along with the prospect of lawsuits from Enron creditors and charges of irregular bond trades in Britain. 
 Mr. Prince met Monday morning with the chief of the Financial Services Agency, Hirofumi Gomi, to explain the bank's plan to strengthen regulatory compliance in Japan. Mr. Gomi said he encouraged Mr. Prince to make sure that executives in New York play an active role in strengthening the operation in Japan, according to Kyodo News. 
 Citigroup's plan includes changing the Japanese management structure so that all divisions report to a newly created position of chief executive for Japan. Previously, the heads of divisions reported directly to senior executives in New York, a system that Japanese regulators said contributed to the lapses in Japan.
 Citigroup also pledged to increase employee training on Japanese banking laws and regulations and to set up an independent committee to monitor the bank's progress in improving its operations. 
 ''The control and compliance fabric has to be strengthened,'' said Douglas Peterson, the new chief executive for Japan. ''We can't afford to again have reputation damage like we've had in Japan.'' 
 Monday's announcement comes less than a week after three senior Citigroup executives in New York were forced to resign because of the problems at the private banking operation in Japan. The ousted executives included the chairman of Citigroup's international operations, Deryck C. Maughan. In addition, 12 executives in Japan have resigned or been fired.
 Mr. Prince pledged on Monday to crack down on unethical behavior and on employees who skirt regulations. 
 ''Under my leadership, lack of compliance and inappropriate behavior simply will not be tolerated and we will take direct action to ensure that proper standards are upheld and that these problems do not reoccur,'' Mr. Prince told reporters. 
 Both publicly, and in private comments, Citigroup executives painted a picture of lax oversight in Japan that allowed aggressive private bankers to ignore regulations to pursue a profit-at-any-cost sales strategy. Their practices included brokering real estate and art deals, even though banks in Japan are not allowed to do so, failing to check whether clients had criminal ties, and in at least one case, ignoring a warning from a Citigroup employee in another country about suspected money laundering by a private bank client.
 Japanese regulators began uncovering violations during an inspection of the private banking unit in late 2003. One reason the regulators issued such a severe punishment was that it was the second time they had discovered many of the illegal practices. Regulators found similar problems during a 2001 inspection and ordered Citibank to improve its compliance system.
 Analysts said Citigroup has a long way to go to repair its reputation with regulators and customers but said the decision to send the chief executive to Japan to apologize personally was an important first step.
 ''In Japan, if you're caught with your pants down, you're expected to apologize,'' said Stephen Church, an analyst at the financial consulting firm Analytica Japan. ''In this regard, they have, at last, done the right thing.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Citigroup officials, Charles O. Prince, right, and Douglas Peterson, apologized yesterday for violating Japanese regulations. (Photo by Yoshikazu Tsuno/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ETHICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (67%); LITIGATION (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); BOND MARKETS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Securities and Commodities Violations; Shutdowns (Institutional); Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun; Charles O Prince

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (85%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



596 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Resentment Toward G.M. Is Growing In Germany

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
Is General Motors jilting Germany for Poland because of the war in Iraq?
 A German politician suggested as much last week, saying in a radio interview that G.M.'s Opel division had shifted some auto production from its plants in Germany to a factory in Gliwice, Poland, to reward the Polish government for its support of the Bush administration.
 G.M. dismisses political motives, noting that Poland's far lower labor costs give it a compelling economic incentive to move. But this is only one of several brickbats General Motors has had to absorb in the 11 days since it announced that it would cut up to 12,000 jobs in Europe, the majority in Germany. 
 The cover of this week's Stern newsmagazine has a picture of a red, white and blue cowboy boot crushing a crowd of Opel workers. Stamped on the boot's sole is the G.M. logo. The magazine describes General Motors as the ''brand killer from Detroit,'' using ''Wild West'' methods.
 General Motors is no stranger to bad publicity in the wake of layoffs. But in Germany, the company's painful moves have coincided with a fraught period in German-American relations. It is little surprise that the anger at G.M.'s cutbacks has taken on an anti-American flavor.
 The company's blunt warning of job losses also ruffled feathers in a country with a long history of worker-management comity. Strikes are illegal and labor talks follow time-honored rituals. German carmakers like Volkswagen and DaimlerChrysler have resisted deep cuts in their payrolls, at least in their home country.
 General Motors, critics said, ignored these rules, which compounded its problems. 
 Rather than thrashing out its cuts in advance with Opel's union and workers' councils, as is the custom in German companies, G.M. announced them directly to the employees and the news media.
 The company further rankled workers by not dispatching an executive to the Opel factory in Bochum to explain its decision. The factory, in the economically depressed Ruhr Valley, is viewed as the most likely to be shut down. Workers there staged a six-day strike to protest the cuts.
 ''I don't think they know anything about Europe, otherwise they would have done things completely differently,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research in Gelsenkirchen. ''I've never seen such lousy communication at such a difficult moment.''
 Executives at General Motors said they communicated directly with workers in the interests of transparency. At German carmakers, such labor negotiations are often carried out behind closed doors, with union leaders leaking the company's plans to the news media before the company.
 ''We pledge to speak to our employees first,'' a spokesman for G.M. Europe, Tony Cervone, said. ''We're handling this in a way that is consistent with the level of integrity we value as a company. That's based on a corporate culture that transcends national boundaries.''
 G.M. did not send someone to Bochum, Mr. Cervone said, because the company felt it would not be safe, given the emotion of the workers. The strike, though brief, reverberated through Opel's other plants because the Bochum factory makes components that are used throughout Europe.
 Under German law, General Motors must reach an agreement with Opel's workers before putting its cost-cutting plan into effect. The workers are demanding that no plants be closed, and that no one be laid off involuntarily. G.M. said it could reach its goal of reducing costs by 500 million euros ($630 million) a year without closing factories, but it has not ruled out forced layoffs.
 Analysts say G.M. has no choice but to reduce its head count in Europe sharply. ''They have a top-line problem because their image is so bad that they can't sell their cars,'' said Arndt Ellinghorst, an analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Frankfurt. ''They really misread the market.''
 Other carmakers have opted to cut more generous deals with their employees. DaimlerChrysler, after threatening to move production to South Africa, signed a deal with its union, IG Metall, that provides smaller wage increases and more flexible work rules. But it did not cut jobs.
 The company said the deal would reduce its labor costs by 500 million euros a year by 2006, the same amount as G.M. Mr. Ellinghorst and other analysts said they doubted it would save that much.
 Despite the criticisms leveled at General Motors, there are signs that its tougher style may become more common in Germany. KarstadtQuelle, a financially troubled department store chain, recently announced 5,500 job cuts, as part of an overhaul of the company.
 Volkswagen is in tense negotiations with IG Metall over a contract for 103,000 assembly line workers. The company is demanding a two-year wage freeze, and warns that unless it reduces its labor costs by a third over the next six years, 30,000 jobs could be in jeopardy.
 Volkswagen has not announced a single layoff, however, and it is pledging an across-the-board job guarantee if the union accepts its deal. Analysts say that Volkswagen, as a German company partly owned by the state of Lower Saxony, does not have G.M.'s freedom.
 ''Volkswagen and Lower Saxony will do anything to secure jobs,'' Mr. Ellinghorst said. ''If market conditions continue like this for another few years, they will have similar cost problems as Opel.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at G.M.'s Opel plant in Bochum, Germany, protesting the company's plan to cut up to 12,000 jobs. G.M. has also been criticized for making its decision without negotiations, which is against German custom. (Photo by Frank Augstein/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (88%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); STRIKES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%) Automobiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Production; Relocation of Business; Wages and Salaries; Automobiles; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Opel, Adam, Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%) Germany; Europe; Gliwice (Poland); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



597 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Bush Camp's Greatest Hits

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:

This advertisement for President Bush began running in at least a dozen battleground states on Monday.

PRODUCER: Maverick Media.

THE SCRIPT: A narrator says: ''President Bush and Congressional allies: strong leadership to protect America; tax relief; common sense health care; strengthen and protect Social Security. John Kerry and liberal allies: higher taxes; voting to tax Social Security benefits; government-run health care; a record of slashing intelligence; and reckless defense cuts. Alone in the booth, why take the risk?'' President Bush says, ''I'm George W. Bush and I approve this message.''

ON THE SCREEN: The spot opens on a presidential ballot. The choices underneath ''President Bush and Congressional Allies'' are ''strong leadership,'' ''tax relief,'' ''common sense health care'' and ''strengthen and protect Social Security.'' As red check marks appear in each of those boxes the screen flashes a progression of happy Americans: a little girl, a blue-collar worker, an old man in a sun hat, a woman with graying hair. When it says ''John Kerry and liberal allies in Congress'' the choices are ''higher taxes,'' ''voting to tax Social Security,'' ''government-run health care,'' ''slashing intelligence'' and ''reckless defense cuts.'' This time, the progression of Americans look decidedly less pleased: a father with his son; an elderly woman; a woman and a little boy in a batter's helmet. The spot ends showing Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, casually dressed.

ACCURACY: Mr. Kerry has promised to raise taxes, but only on those earning more than $200,000 a year. Mr. Kerry and other Democrats voted to increase the number of people who would have to pay taxes on Social Security benefits, but they did so as part of former President Bill Clinton's 1993 package to reduce the budget deficit, which some economists credit with setting the stage for the record economic expansion that followed. Mr. Kerry is not proposing ''government-run health care.'' His plan would expand existing government-run programs like Medicare to help cover the uninsured. But independent experts say his plan would not affect 97 percent of the public. Mr. Kerry did propose capping intelligence spending for five years in 1994, a year after the first terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, but for two of those years intelligence spending did not reach the levels of the proposed cap anyway. Mr. Kerry has voted for eliminating or ceasing production of several weapons programs. But Vice President Dick Cheney moved to end many of the same programs when he was defense secretary for Mr. Bush's father.

SCORECARD: This is a sort of greatest-hits compilation of attacks Mr. Bush's campaign has made against Mr. Kerry all year. Like past advertisements in which many of these charges have been made, it will probably have mixed success. Some voters have said they are concerned that Mr. Kerry is proposing a government takeover of health care, despite news media reports calling this accusation overblown. Attacks on Mr. Kerry's credentials to be commander in chief seem to have helped Mr. Bush maintain a lead in polls when it comes to who would better protect the nation, but not enough to give him the sort of decisive lead his strategists would have liked. JIM RUTENBERG


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MEDICARE (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Political Advertising

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



598 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: OHIO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: The Intense Battle for the Hearts and Minds of Voters Takes Its Toll in Stark County

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Oct. 24 

 BODY:
Voters in this battleground of battlegrounds know they should feel lucky. 
 The presidential candidates have seriously contested less than half of the nation. But for Stark County, a political bellwether, the nation's politics are so local that a commercial promoting Senator John Kerry holds up Canton as an example of job loss under George W. Bush. 
 President Bush has been to Canton twice in four months, most recently on Friday. His sister, Dorothy Bush Koch, spoke here on Saturday. Senator John Edwards campaigned here on Wednesday. 
 Yet if the political attention is more intense in Stark County, so are the political turmoil and anxiety. Voters here say they feel more interested and involved than in previous campaigns, but also more depleted. 
 ''It's a terrific experience,'' Michael Pastrikos, 51, said of the hometown politicking. ''It shows respect, and it makes sure the candidates understand what the issues are.''
 Yet Mr. Pastrikos said he could not wait for this terrific experience to be over. Why? ''The pressure and the stress, and the damage they've caused on television,'' he said.
 With political advertisements interrupting gardening shows on the radio and soap operas on television, the campaign has washed into every corner of life here, touching even one of the most hallowed of escapes -- high school football. Mr. Pastrikos spoke at halftime Saturday night, as the McKinley Bulldogs paused in demolishing the Hoover Vikings at Fawcett Stadium, on the campus of the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
 Before the game, Ohio Republican Party workers passed out cards bearing a picture of Mr. Bush with Chris Spielman, the former Ohio State University and Cleveland Browns star. ''Evil can only exist if good people do nothing,'' Mr. Spielman was quoted as saying, urging a vote for the president.
 Standing with a friend who supports Mr. Bush, Mr. Pastrikos, a Kerry supporter, argued that most commentators had it backward: It was not the voters of the county or the nation who were so at odds, but the candidates who were deliberately driving them apart.
 ''Our country's being divided by this,'' he said. ''And it's sad.''
 It is a little poignant that, while elections are meant to crystallize the highest American ideals of democracy, the language connected to them is of death and destruction: states are battlegrounds; volunteers are ground troops; advertising is an air war. By that metaphoric standard, it seems both campaigns felt compelled this year to destroy Stark County in order to save it. 
 The Cleveland media market, which includes Stark County, has had more spending on presidential advertisements during this election -- more than $40 million -- than did all of Ohio in 2000, said Evan Tracey, of the Campaign Media Analysis Group in Arlington, Va. ''Cleveland, Ohio, has been essentially the eye of the storm,'' he said. In places like this, he said, ''it's gone beyond just trying to touch voters, and it's almost trying to become invasive to voters, to get into every aspect of their lives.''
 Beyond the candidates and their parties, groups like the National Air Traffic Controllers Association are also weighing in, pushing their own agendas and complaints -- in the controllers' case, that Mr. Bush has not hired more of them. (''If a mountain is rapidly approaching, please press 1,'' a recorded voice is heard saying, as a jumbo jet is shown in the clouds. ''Otherwise, please hold.'') 
 Swelling the commercial cacophony on television are office-seekers as local as state representative and county commissioner.
 ''I'll be glad when I can turn on the television and not see a political ad,'' said Jeannie Freitag, 58, a retired teacher. ''Bringing the campaign here, that was good. But the advertising is awful.''
 Despite the dawn-to-dawn barrage of advertisements, voters here do not seem particularly cynical. If anything, they are taking the campaign even more seriously. But they wonder if Canton's image has been damaged by it, and if the divides that have opened up will soon close. They wonder if their concerns will remain the winners' concerns after Election Day.
 ''I hope they don't forget about us,'' said Sandy Zeiger, 33, a dental hygienist, as she ate dinner Friday night at John's Bar and Grille.
 Her friend Karen Hoffman, 36, said the stakes were so high that she could scarcely stand the stress of awaiting the outcome. ''It's really emotional for me,'' said Ms. Hoffman, the manager of a clothing store. ''I'll listen to the Zogby poll, and I'll watch 'Hardball' on MSNBC, and I wonder, Am I really voting because of the facts or is it all biased opinion and smear campaigns?'' 
 Issues that can fade into slogans and abstractions at campaign headquarters remain vivid and complex in northeastern Ohio. A new Wal-Mart is hiring hundreds here, while manufacturers are shedding jobs as they relocate plants overseas or to states where unions are weak. Some soldiers are returning from Iraq as other reservists prepare to go.
 For the first time in their lives, Ms. Zeiger and Ms. Hoffman said, they attended a political protest on Friday, outside Mr. Bush's speech at the Palace Theater downtown. Ms. Zeiger said that her boyfriend's manufacturing job had been ''outsourced to India'' and that her own hours had been reduced because people were losing dental insurance.
 Of more than two dozen voters interviewed, several said the loss of manufacturing jobs began under President Bill Clinton, in what they called an inevitable economic transition. 
 Nancy Troyak, 55, said this campaign had exposed such raw feelings over economics that she could no longer talk politics with her eight elder siblings.
 ''They live in Pittsburgh, and they still have the blue-collar mentality that 'Someone took my job,''' said Ms. Troyak, a coal miner's daughter who has an M.B.A. and is a part-time instructor in business at Kent State University's Stark campus. She spoke while waiting to see Mr. Bush, standing with her ticket in a line 200 yards long. 
 She said of the election, ''This is the first one I've ever noticed that's dividing the family.''
 Some voters relish the intensity. Dennis and Carol Hickman have posted Bush-Cheney signs on their lawn. With a brash laugh, Mr. Hickman, 55, said he enjoyed teasing his father, a Kerry man.''He's very serious about it,'' Mr. Hickman said. ''I throw the anti-Kerry jokes just to get a reaction out of him.'' 
 But David G. Baker, a political scientist who is dean of Kent State's Stark campus, said he had noticed a marked drop in political discussion, at least between those who disagree.
 ''Because it is so divided, so closely divided and contested, and people feel so deeply, there actually isn't a whole lot of debate,'' Mr. Baker said in a telephone interview. ''I think people have learned you don't get in these pleasant, jocular exchanges. They get pretty nasty pretty fast, so they avoid it.''
 He said that in his subdivision of 52 houses, his neighbors had put out many signs for local candidates, but, apparently in hopes of avoiding argument, not a single sign for a presidential contender. 
 Stark County, which went narrowly for Mr. Bush in 2000, has voted for the winner in every election since 1962, save in 1976, when it supported Gerald Ford over Jimmy Carter. In a county poll at the end of September by the local newspaper, The Repository, Mr. Bush led, 46 percent to 44 percent. The margin of sampling error was four percentage points. 
 Like many others, David C. Kaminski, The Repository's editor, is looking forward to the end of the campaign, while wondering when that might occur. He is preparing his reporters to cover legal challenges to the vote. 
 Mr. Kaminski said that his staff was discouraged over the summer by an unaccustomed ''nasty tone'' in calls and letters from partisans. 
 Several voters said they hoped the politicking had helped the county's economy. But there are costs, too. At the farmers' market on Saturday, Mike Snider, 50, a bus mechanic who does not support either major candidate, said he was annoyed that 10 buses had been pulled out of service and used to block the streets outside Mr. Bush's event.
 Joseph Concatto, the chief of staff to the mayor, Janet Weir Creighton, a Republican, said the president's visit in July cost the city $18,000 in overtime wages. 
 Mr. Concatto added that, at a time the city is trying to build its job base, he was not happy to see Mr. Kerry advertising that Canton had lost jobs. ''I don't know that we want to be on the forefront because we're losing jobs,'' he said. 
 The people who seem the most jaded by all the political attention are the television reporters. On Cleveland's Fox Channel 8, the correspondent covering Mr. Bush observed that the candidates would be in Ohio ''again and again and again.''
 ''They should have mailboxes here, don't you think?'' he asked. 
 Over on NewsChannel 5, an anchor suggested, ''They should just get an apartment in the meantime and just stay here over the next two weeks.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the intense attention being focused this year on Stark County, a political bellwether in Ohio, misstated the starting year of its history of going the same way as the nation in every presidential election except one. The streak began in 1964, not 1962. (In 1976 the county went for Gerald Ford over Jimmy Carter.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: It was anti-Kerry signs versus anti-Bush signs on Friday in Canton, Ohio, with city buses blocking the street, when President Bush visited town for the second time in four months. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (70%); SPORTS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Public Opinion; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%) James Bennet; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Canton (Ohio); Stark County (Ohio); Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



599 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Voter Guide 2004; THE BATTLEGROUND; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: Neck and Neck Around the Country

BYLINE: By ALAN GREENBLATT. 
Alan Greenblatt is a staff writer at Governing magazine.

 BODY:
The presidential campaign has been characterized as a battle in a few closely contested states, but this election also reveals how voters are polarized by region. The coasts are leaning toward John Kerry, while Southern, Plains and Rocky Mountain states are providing President Bush with his firmest support.
 The states that are closest are in those regions most in flux. Rapid population growth in the Sunbelt states of Florida and the Southwest has led to bifurcated political cultures in which newcomers are challenging the accepted order. Mr. Kerry is gaining strength in Rust Belt states leaking jobs -- most prominently in Michigan and normally Republican Ohio. And suburbanization in the Upper Midwest is putting generally Democratic states like Minnesota and Wisconsin within Mr. Bush's sights.
 The bulk of the most hotly contested local races are taking place in states that appear to favor Mr. Bush, including the races for governor in Indiana, Missouri and Montana and the Senate contests in Alaska, Oklahoma, South Dakota and both Carolinas. 
 In the presidential battleground states, as elsewhere, the race is dominated by a few key issues -- Iraq, terror, health care and the economy. Here is a look at 11 of the states that polls indicate are the most competitive.
 In addition, several states are bellwethers, among them New Jersey (included below). Mr. Kerry is still leading there, but if Mr. Bush carries the state, he will win more comfortably than he did four years ago. Similarly, if Mr. Kerry carries a state like Arkansas, which Mr. Bush won by 5 percentage points in 2000 and where he is ahead, Mr. Kerry is likely to be the next president. ALAN GREENBLATT

COLORADO
Registration has surged by about 10 percent this year in this fast-growing state and enrollment glitches have already caused concern. Conservative transplants from Southern California tilted Colorado firmly into the G.O.P. column, but the spike in Hispanic population -- Hispanics now represent nearly a fifth of the state's population -- has fueled Mr. Kerry's hopes, in conjunction with the Senate campaign of State Attorney General Ken Salazar. Running against Peter Coors, the beer magnate, Mr. Salazar has been polling better than Mr. Kerry among Hispanics and voters generally. A ballot initiative to divvy up the state's electoral votes based on the percentage of the popular vote has drawn national attention, but support for it appears to be slipping.

FLORIDA
Mr. Bush has helped engineer more than $10 billion worth of aid to hurricane victims. Mr. Bush's former housing director, Mel Martinez, a Republican, is running for Senate against Betty Castor for the seat being vacated by Bob Graham, a Democrat, helping to lift the president's numbers among voters of both Cuban and Puerto Rican heritage above 2000 levels. But Democrats retain a slight lead in voter registration. And health care concerns among the state's many elderly and low-income workers work against Mr. Bush. Mr. Kerry's supporters also remain energized by the disputed outcome in 2000. Ballot measures include something for everyone -- a proposed minimum wage increase with greater appeal for Democrats and, for conservatives, a cap on lawyers' fees and a parental notification requirement for minors seeking abortions.

IOWA
Mr. Bush has employed the powers of incumbency to try to break a deadlock here, holding a bill-signing ceremony in Des Moines on Oct. 4 to extend tax breaks. He also signed off on a disaster package that included $2.8 billion for farmers and ranchers. And on Oct. 15, his administration slapped a 15 percent duty on imported Canadian hogs. Still, in recent polls neither candidate holds a lead outside the margin of error. The economic picture is mixed and health care remains a prime concern of the elderly, who make up 15 percent of the population. People are nervous about conditions in Iraq, but some undecided voters remain unpersuaded of Mr. Kerry's leadership qualities in the war on terror. In 2002, Iowa was notable for many closely contested Congressional races, but the House races are less volatile this time, and Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican, is considered a shoo-in for a fifth term.

MICHIGAN
Mr. Kerry has not appeared here since mid-September and that fact, coupled with Mr. Bush's focus on terrorism, has helped tighten some polls in this state. Mr. Kerry has rested easier here than in the other big Midwestern battleground states and is still favored to win. The reason is that Michigan has been a leading job loser since Mr. Bush took office, shedding 15,000 payroll jobs in September alone. ''There's never been a day where the positive economic message nationally was not answered the next day by bad news in the state,'' said Ed Sarpolus, a pollster in Lansing. The Bush campaign is counting on a gay marriage amendment on the ballot to attract socially conservative voters, but its effect may be offset by gambling and education measures that are expected to increase turnout in heavily Democratic Detroit.

MINNESOTA
The debates helped shore up Mr. Kerry's support in this traditionally Democratic state, but the contest remains as close as any presidential election in recent memory. (Minnesota has gone Democratic in every presidential contest since 1972.) The Minneapolis-St. Paul area is growing faster than most other urban centers along the northern tier and many of the newcomers don't share the state's historic penchant for accepting high taxes in return for a high level of government service. Tim Pawlenty, the freshman Republican governor, has been hailed for closing a $4.6 billion deficit by cutting spending and not raising taxes. His home turf -- the increasingly Republican outer suburbs -- now accounts for a third of the statewide vote. Still, Democrats have been galvanized by opposition to the war in Iraq, which has consistently been greater here than nationwide.

NEVADA
In this gambling capital, they'll lay you a line on the election, but nobody's ready to bet serious money on the outcome. Nevada offers a test of the voting proclivities of two major demographic groups swelling the population in the nation's fastest-growing state. Hispanics tend to favor Democrats, but don't vote in proportion to their share of the population, while Anglo retirees from California and the Southwest do vote and are big fans of the state's low tax rates. Democrats have been edging ahead of Republicans in registration this year, but a judge blocked a Democratic attempt to keep the rolls open for citizens whose forms were said to have been destroyed by a Republican registration organization. Among the ballot measures this year is a proposed minimum-wage increase that Democrats hope will attract Hispanics.

NEW HAMPSHIRE
The state that gets early primary attention is receiving unaccustomed wooing at the campaign's end. This is the only Northeastern state Mr. Bush won in 2000 and he's struggling to win here again. Massachusetts transplants and commuters along the southern tier have mixed feelings about Mr. Kerry, dubious about some Republican charges against him but also hostile to tax increases. The state has a staunch antitax culture, so the G.O.P. message plays well. Veterans are also a major constituency. But concerns about health coverage in rural areas play to Mr. Kerry's advantage, as does a generally progressive tilt on social issues. Gov. Craig Benson, a Republican, is having a tough go of it in his first re-election bid against John Lynch, a business executive, in part because of scandals involving appointees and the former state attorney general.

NEW JERSEY
Voters across the country harbor concerns about progress in Iraq, but are uncomfortable with the notion of breaking faith with the president in wartime. That dynamic has put this normally Democratic state in play for Mr. Bush. New Jersey residents express high levels of anxiety about terrorist attacks. (About 700 state residents perished in the World Trade Center attack.) Democrats habitually win statewide races here and Al Gore carried the state by 16 points in 2000. Party officials were so confident that they sent staff members to help in other states. But the party has been weakened by Gov. James McGreevey's resignation announcement in August. Mr. Kerry maintains an edge in polls, although not a comfortable one. If he loses, it will be a sign that national security issues played well for Mr. Bush.

NEW MEXICO
If Mr. Kerry can't win this state, which Mr. Gore carried by just 366 votes in 2000, he will have a hard time winning the election. New Mexico provides a good mix of Democratic voters, including the nation's highest percentage of Hispanic residents (42 percent). A political committee led by Bill Richardson, the popular Democratic governor, has spent more than $800,000 in its efforts to register new voters, particularly Hispanics and American Indians. (The Democratic secretary of state turned back a Republican lawsuit seeking to require new registrants to show identification when voting.) Mr. Richardson is also a major voice for the Kerry campaign in local advertising. Rural voters are concerned about access to health care. Over all, registration favors the Democrats, if only barely, but Mr. Bush is aided by a fairly healthy economy (the state is an oil and natural gas producer) and by defense issues.

OHIO
The state has been a major job loser over the last three years, making the economy the race's major focus, but Iraq and security are concerns as well. Debates about policy, however, may be swamped by some of the country's loudest fights over voting procedures. Democrats and J. Kenneth Blackwell, the Republican secretary of state (and a state co-chairman of the Bush-Cheney campaign), have been engaging in court battles over provisional voting. (A federal judge sided with Democrats, but Mr. Blackwell won on appeal on Oct. 23.) Republicans have complained about voter fraud, including allegations that a man was paid with crack cocaine to sign up fictitious voters. Tax increase proposals and scandals involving state Republican officials have hurt the Republican cause here, but a gay marriage ban on the ballot should help turn out conservatives.

PENNSYLVANIA
Mirroring the nation as a whole, this state has populous, heavily Democratic areas to the east and west (Philadelphia and Pittsburgh) that bound larger expanses of heavily Republican territory. With those areas canceling each other out, the battle will be won in the Philadelphia suburbs. They tend to vote Republican, but are progressive on issues like abortion, the environment and gun control. (Contentious Congressional races in the southwest corner of the state will promote local turnout.) Huge battles are erupting at the county level over voting issues, including registration, identification and polling place disputes. Some counties have mailed absentee ballots listing Ralph Nader, an independent presidential candidate, before the United States Supreme Court rejected his case seeking a place on the state's ballot.

WISCONSIN
The state had been leaning toward Mr. Bush, but regular Democratic voters appear to have come home to Mr. Kerry since the presidential debates. The state has a dovish tradition on defense issues and Iraq is an unpopular cause with many voters. But suburban residents between Green Bay and the Illinois border are pleased with the low unemployment rate and are leaning more Republican. Loss of manufacturing jobs has hurt Mr. Bush, and the debate over importing prescription drugs from Canada -- a major issue for Mr. Kerry -- has gathered a lot of attention. Mr. Bush took credit for supporting a federal dairy price support program at an Oct. 7 appearance in Wausau, but Congressional Republicans excised the measure the next day. Sen. Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat seeking a third term, has sought to make an issue of the soon-to-expire dairy program.


GRAPHIC: Charts: COLORADOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000BUSH: 8.36 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 9RECENT POLL Oct. 14-17[1] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 51%KERRY: 45%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 2.2 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesFLORIDAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000BUSH: 0.01 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 27RECENT POLL Oct. 15-19[2] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 48%KERRY: 47%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.0 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesIOWAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 0.32 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 7RECENT POLL Oct. 15-18[3] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 49%KERRY: 43%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.4 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesMICHIGANMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 5.13 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 17RECENT POLL Oct. 18-22[4] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 43%KERRY: 49%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 2.4 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesMINNESOTAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 2.41 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 10RECENT POLL Oct. 9-11[5] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 43%KERRY: 48%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 0.8 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesNEVADAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000BUSH: 3.54 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 5RECENT POLL Oct. 15-18[3] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 52%KERRY: 42%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: down 0.2 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesNEW HAMPSHIREMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000BUSH: 1.27 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 4RECENT POLL Oct. 16-18[6] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 47%KERRY: 46%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.3 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesNEW JERSEYMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 15.84 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 15RECENT POLL Oct. 14-17[2] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 45%KERRY: 49%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.3 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesNEW MEXICOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 0.06 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 5RECENT POLL Oct. 16-18[6] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 46%KERRY: 48%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 0.7 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesOHIOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000BUSH: 3.51 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 20RECENT POLL Oct. 17-20[1] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 47%KERRY: 48%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.8 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: UncertainPENNSYLVANIAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 4.17 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 21RECENT POLL Oct. 16-20[2] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 46%KERRY: 51%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.1 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: NoWISCONSINMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000GORE: 0.02 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 10RECENT POLL Oct. 16-19 [1] Margin of error +/-4 pts.BUSH: 50%KERRY: 44%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.1 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: Yes(Sources by Dave Leip's U.S. Election Atlas
Ballot Access News
Polls by [1]CNN/USA Today/Gallup, [2]Quinnipiac University, [3]MSNBC/Knight-Ridder, [4]EPIC/MRA, [5]The Minnesota Poll and [6]American Research Group)
 (Illustrations by James Bronzan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); POPULATION SIZE (68%); HURRICANES (63%); SUBURBS (55%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; States (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%) Alan Greenblatt; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Colorado; Florida ; Iowa; Michigan; Minnesota; Nevada; New Hampshire; New Jersey; New Mexico; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004



600 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Economy Improves, but Not Optimism; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: In Pennsylvania, a Swing State, Few Feel Flush

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Oct 23 

 BODY:
It has become much easier to find a job here in the last year, but few people are feeling flush.
 George Firestone, who locates underground cables for telephone repair crews, recently learned that he would not be getting the $1.50-an-hour wage increase he had been expecting. His wife, Nicole, has $4,000 in bills after lung surgery last year, even though they both are covered by health insurance.
 ''We've pretty much abandoned our plans to buy a house,'' Ms. Firestone said as the couple ushered their three children into a Wal-Mart store here in this classic midsize American city with a mix of basic industries and white-collar services. ''Prices for groceries and gasoline are going up every week. We're paying about $40 a week for gasoline.'' 
 With the presidential election looming on Nov. 2, economic growth and hiring continue to march forward. But soaring oil prices and a persistently weak job market have made the recovery more fragile and sluggish than it seemed just a few months ago.
 Middle-income consumers, who kept buying houses and cars through the downturn, are now feeling squeezed between higher prices and stagnant wages. Because much of their recent spending was financed with borrowed money rather than higher incomes, many are either feeling tapped out or simply ready for a pause.
 ''We just finished a big addition, and we bought a lot of furniture to put in it,'' said Tracy Wagner, a stay-at-home mother whose husband works as a mechanical engineer. ''Unless we move, we won't need to spend as much this year.''
 President Bush and Senator John Kerry trade dueling economic outlooks almost every day. Mr. Bush boasts that the nation has added 1.8 million jobs in the last year and that tax cuts have helped the economy rebound. Mr. Kerry points out that real household incomes and employment have both declined since Mr. Bush took office while the number of people in poverty is up.
 Both candidates are right, up to a point. Analysts estimate that the economy is growing at a relatively robust annual pace of about 4 percent, above its average trend rate. And there is no doubt that lots of Americans are in many ways enjoying more creature comforts than ever before.
 Thanks to the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates sharply, to their lowest level since 1958, the rate of homeownership has climbed to a record 69 percent. Americans, on average, live in bigger houses, drive bigger vehicles, surf the Internet with faster connections and talk on cellphones more than they did four years ago.
 But a long list of economic indicators suggests that many Americans are poorer today than they were when Mr. Bush took office.
 Median household income and median household wealth, adjusted for inflation, are still slightly lower than they were four years ago. Consumer debt, meanwhile, has soared to new records.
 Monthly debt payments, as a share of take-home pay, are just below the record levels set earlier this year. Mortgage foreclosure rates and write-offs for bad credit card debt are also near record levels, despite extraordinarily low interest rates.
 ''Most American households are financially worse off today than they were four years ago,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm based in the Philadelphia suburb of West Chester. Median household incomes and median household wealth, he said, were hit hard by the weak job market, high energy prices and the explosion of mortgage debt.
 ''The fruits of the economic recovery have largely accrued to upper-income households,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''Those are the one who benefited from the surge in house prices. They also enjoyed rising investment income and it is their part of the job market that has been strongest.''
 That poses a difficult challenge for whoever wins the presidential election. With oil prices surging to $55 a barrel from $30 last summer, economists have already reduced their forecasts for economic growth, and sustained high prices could lead to more painful jolts.
 Mr. Bush was able to soften the last downturn by pushing through tax cuts totaling $1.9 trillion over 10 years. But with the federal budget deficit hitting $415 billion this year, and foreign investors increasingly jittery about America's debt to the rest of the world, the next president will have little ability to cut taxes even more.
 Nor can the next president expect much help from the Federal Reserve, which fueled consumer spending by cutting interest rates 13 times from early 2001 to June 2003. Worried about provoking a new round of inflation, the Fed is now increasing rates gradually and is expected to keep raising them for at least the next year.
 The combined impact of tax cuts and cheap money has contributed to what Ethan Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, called the ''supersizing'' of American lifestyles.
 ''Rising living standards are not a new phenomenon,'' Mr. Harris noted. ''What's different about this period is that the rise in spending is being financed by lower savings and higher borrowing.''
 Most economists believe that the economy expanded at an annual rate of more than 4 percent in the third quarter of 2004 (the Commerce Department is scheduled to report the data on Friday) and that growth will average about 3.5 percent next year.
 But surging oil prices have created new uncertainty, raising questions about whether business investment will pick up the slack as consumer spending grows more slowly.
 Despite Mr. Bush's repeated declaration that the economy is strong and getting stronger, consumer confidence has plunged in the last few months. The University of Michigan's monthly survey of consumers showed an unexpectedly sharp drop this month, according to preliminary estimates, and the Conference Board is expected to show a similar drop in its survey.
 ''Absent a sudden, strong reacceleration in employment growth, we think it is therefore just a matter of time before spending growth slows further,'' warned Ian Shepherdson of High-Frequency Economics, an independent investment analyst based in Valhalla, N.Y. ''The risk of a seriously soft holiday season is growing by the day.'' 
 Allen Sinai of Decision Economics, a forecasting firm, said, ''The corporations I'm talking to had a pretty good year.'' 
 But ''corporate America is still sitting on tons of cash,'' he said. ''I've never seen a more risk-averse bunch of executives than the ones I've been talking to.''
 Federal Reserve officials are watching the potential impact of oil prices with growing apprehension, generally estimating that the rising costs of imported oil have already amounted to a $75 billion tax on the economy.
 ''I don't mean to conjure up the grim days of the 1970's, when oil price shocks hit the economy very hard,'' said Janet Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, in a speech last week. ''But what adds to concerns about the higher oil prices is the possibility that they might continue, or even worsen, cutting further into people's and firms' ability to spend.''
 The fragility of the recovery is apparent here in Pennsylvania, a political swing state that has lost tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs over the last four years. Job creation has picked up noticeably over the last year, with statewide employment climbing by 147,000 jobs in the 12 months through September.
 But that still leaves the state with 71,200 fewer jobs than it had in March 2001, when the recession officially began, and the adult population has climbed during that period.
 In York, an area with manufacturing and service companies, the unemployment rate is comparatively low at 4.4 percent and even a few factories have begun to rehire workers. ''We could find jobs for 400 people right now,'' said Michael Smeltzer, director of the Manufacturers' Association of South Central Pennsylvania. ''That is a huge shift from a year ago.''
 But the picture in the state is mixed. Several big employers have closed all or part of their operations in the last several months. Glatfelter, a long-time producer of specialty paper products, is eliminating about 100 jobs at its paper mill in Spring Grove. 
 Breuners Home Furnishings, based in Lancaster and one of the nation's biggest furniture retailers, is expected to close most of its 47 stores nationwide. Because Breuners owned numerous stores in Pennsylvania, its demise should have helped lift sales at local rivals.
 But Wolf Furniture, a family-owned chain with eight stores in the area, said it was simply keeping on track with sales from last year.
 Mr. Smeltzer, at the manufacturing association, said executives were still nervous about the future, particularly given the uncertainty about oil prices.
 ''The jury is still out on whether this economic recovery is sustainable,'' Mr. Smeltzer said.
 That could be an ominous sign. For the last several years, most economists have been expecting a ''hand off'' from consumers to corporations as the main engine of growth. The theory has been that tax cuts and low interest rates propped up consumer spending through the downturn, and that business investment would pick up as the global economy improved.
 Business spending did indeed revive over the last year, after plunging in response to the stock market fall and the economic downturn. But business investment still remains comparatively modest, even though profits have climbed by more than 30 percent over the last year.
 The Conference Board, which surveys chief executives once every quarter, found that business confidence dropped noticeably in the summer as well as in the fall.
 If business investment continues to lag, the big question is how much energy America's consumers have left in them.
 Mr. Harris of Lehman Brothers predicts that consumers will continue to keep spending to maintain the lifestyles to which they have become accustomed. But people like Tracy and Jeff Wagner do not fit that pattern.
 Mr. Wagner, a mechanical engineer, accepted a lower-paying job when his previous employer decided to cut back. The family stayed in their two-bedroom house, then took advantage of low interest rates to reduce their mortgage and take out a home-equity loan to pay for a new addition.
 Tracy Wagner expressed little desire to make new purchases. As for her husband, she added, ''I don't think he is expecting his income to go up anytime soon.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nicole Firestone of York, Pa., with her children, Justin, left, and Shannon, said she and her husband had ''pretty much abandoned'' their plans to buy a home. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Tracy Wagner of York, Pa., said she did not expect her family income to rise and that she and her husband planned no new purchases. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''One Economy, Two Tales''Throughout the campaign, President Bush and Senator John Kerry have pointed to different statistics to buttress their arguments about the Bush administration's economic record.What President Bush HighlightsTAX CUTS (Average 2004 savings, by economic group)QUINTILELOWEST: SECOND$98: 475MIDDLE: 756FOURTH: 1,227TOP: 4,669Graph tracks home ownership through the Clinton and Bush years.2000 CLINTON: 67.4%2004* BUSH: 69.0%Graph tracks wages (seasonally adjusted average, hourly, in 2000 dollars) through the Clinton and Bush years.2000 CLINTON: $14.122004 BUSH: $14.51What Senator Kerry HighlightsGraph tracks jobs (change in nonfarm payroll) from 1997-2004+.Graph tracks net worth (household median, in 2000 dollars) through the Clinton and Bush years.2000 CLINTON: $89,3002004 BUSH: $84,400Graph tracks poverty rate (percentage living below the poverty level) through the Clinton and Bush years.2000 CLINTON: 11.3%2004 BUSH: 12.5%*Through the third quarter+Through September(Sources by Economy.com
Census Bureau
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); FOOD PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POVERTY RATES (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy; Automobiles; Housing; Sales; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: YORK, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

 
