

1201 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: An Old Utopian Makes a Comeback, Domes and All

BYLINE: By JONATHON KEATS. 
Jonathon Keats is most recently the author of ''Virtual Words'' (Oxford University Press). jonathon--keats@yahoo.com

 BODY:
In the winter of 1975, R. Buckminster Fuller made a movie called ''Everything I Know.'' Over a two-week period, a crew filmed him sitting in a chair, speaking extemporaneously to the camera about anticipatory design, the geometry of the universe and his invention of the geodesic dome. By the time he had finished talking, the film was 42 hours.
A pithy two-hour excerpt of ''Everything I Know'' greets visitors to ''The Utopian Impulse,'' a new exhibition about Fuller's visionary ideas and their influence on the Bay Area, opening Friday at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. ''We couldn't find a player that could handle 42 hours of video,'' said Jennifer Dunlop Fletcher, the exhibition's curator. On the monitor behind her, the video played and Fuller said, ''My information stimulus from the brain is always terminal, so all my inputs are finite.'' 
Fuller's loquaciousness, more even than the geodesic domes that made him famous, was his primary stock in trade. ''He spent a lot more time talking than doing,'' Ms. Fletcher said. Fuller died in 1983.
Even the things he created were most compelling for the ways he described them. For instance, his three-wheel automobile -- represented in the exhibition by a large photograph overlaid with patent drawings -- was a commercial flop after a prototype crashed at the 1933 Chicago World's Fair.
Yet his underlying notion of doing ''the most with the least'' -- streamlining the car like an airplane for maximum efficiency -- was decades ahead of Ford's steel-trap thinking, an example of anticipatory design (synthesizing art, science, engineering and economics) if ever there was one. By the 1960s, Fuller had found a mass audience, not within the auto industry but within the emerging counterculture, for which the idea of doing less with more was apposite. He gave lectures of epic length, inspiring renegades half his age to act on his beliefs.
The Whole Earth Catalog, first published in Menlo Park, Calif., in 1968, was dedicated to him. ''Fuller's lectures have a raga quality of rich, nonlinear, endless improvisation,'' read an introductory tribute by Stewart Brand, the publisher. From Mr. Brand's LSD-enhanced perspective, Fuller preached self-sufficiency, which Mr. Brand sought to realize via his catalog -- a mail-order sourcebook for everything from hunting boots to CB radios. ''I was persuaded by Fuller that tools and techniques were the essence of human progress,'' he wrote in an e-mail, ''whereas politics often was a complete distraction.''
Ms. Fletcher has included several vintage Whole Earth Catalogs in the exhibit, as well as one product that Fuller consulted on personally: the Oval Intention geodesic tent, first produced in Berkeley in the '70s by the North Face. ''When you talk about the efficiency of being able to assemble a geodesic dome with one hand behind your back,'' said Ms. Fletcher, ''that's the North Face tent.'' And unlike the trussed domes Fuller built, it didn't break or leak.
After Fuller died, at 87, enthusiasm for his teachings cooled outside a small circle of acolytes, who sought, through seminars and books, to turn the freest of free thinkers into the high priest of a cult. Only in the past decade have his ideas re-emerged.
Thom Mayne's 2007 San Francisco Federal Building, for example, incorporates a ''living skin'' of automatically adjusting windows said to be influenced by Fuller. Represented by a 2007 study model in the exhibition, Mr. Mayne's building embodies the practical application of one of Fuller's most outlandish ideas: to enclose Midtown Manhattan under a dome that would moderate temperature swings to foster a ''Garden of Eden interior.''
Yet the most fertile 21st-century application of Fuller's ideas has been in realms he could scarcely have imagined. ''Fuller had the notion that if you just had access to information, all the world's problems would be solved,'' Ms. Fletcher said. The Internet has finally made that possible, albeit not for everyone.
The One Laptop per Child initiative, a nonprofit organization that gives cheap, durable tablets called XO Laptops to children, is arguably the most ambitious attempt to address the global imbalance in information access. So far, 2.6 million XOs have been distributed in countries from Uruguay to Rwanda. Yves Behar, the San Francisco-based designer responsible for the XO, did not create it in accordance with the geometry of the universe, but he considers himself indebted to Fuller. ''I think the notion of the utopian design project is alive in my generation of designers, and Buckminster Fuller has had a lot to do with it,'' he said. ''The confidence to challenge the status quo has come from pioneers such as Bucky Fuller.''
If Fuller's ideas serve technology well, technology has returned the favor. His resurgent influence can partly be attributed to nostalgia for midcentury design and '60s counterculture. But the Web has proved more decisive in his renewed popularity, allowing him to speak freely again, unconstrained by disciples.
Despite attempts by the Buckminster Fuller Institute to control video of Fuller's lectures, most of ''Everything I Know'' has been anonymously uploaded to YouTube.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Images from an R. Buckminster Fuller exhibition include, clockwise from top left, a Pacific High School dome, an air-ocean map, another Pacific High School photo and a Dymaxion car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LLOYD KAHN/SFMOMA
 SFMOMA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1202 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: A Strategy To Vote Dead Shares

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
There was an old joke in which a man said that when he died he hoped to be buried in Chicago, so that he could continue to vote.
Emmis Communications, an owner of radio stations around the United States, not to mention in Slovakia and Bulgaria, is based in Indianapolis, which may be on its way to becoming the Chicago of capitalism.
Put briefly, Emmis and its controlling shareholder have hatched an ingenious plan to make the company's preferred shares all but worthless and strip them of their rights.
To do that requires getting two-thirds of the preferred shares to agree, which would normally be impossible. 
But not if Emmis can persuade a state judge in Indiana to bless its strategy to allow dead shares to be voted.
If it succeeds, that strategy could have serious ramifications for investors in other companies. ''It is not a good thing,'' said Charles Elson, a law professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. ''Ultimately, the court has to protect the minority investors or the minority shares will be worthless and no one will invest.''
Here's the situation. Back in 1999, when radio properties were hot, Emmis sold convertible preferred stock at $50 a share. The shares were to pay 6.5 percent a year in dividends. The dividends were cumulative, meaning that if they were not paid the company would still owe them and would have to pay them before any money could be paid to common shareholders. If dividends were not paid for a year and a half, the preferred shares would be entitled to elect two directors.
Like all preferred shares, those shares offered investors greater security and higher income than an investment in common stock, but less chance of a big upside if the company did well.
If the company went private, it would have to redeem the shares at $50 plus accrued dividends. Emmis has not paid dividends on the preferred since 2008, and a little over $11 in unpaid dividends has accumulated. The market price of the shares collapsed after dividend payments were halted.
The provision in the preferred stock contract that allows the terms to be changed with the consent of the owners of two-thirds of the shares is fairly standard. It assumes that investors in a company in trouble might want to cut a deal that gave them something rather than the nothing that they might receive if the company went bankrupt.
Emmis is not doing very well, but it has sold some radio stations and is bringing down debt. A big part of its reported profits in the most recently reported quarter -- $56.8 million -- stemmed from its effective repurchase of most of the preferred shares at a large discount to face value. It stated in its quarterly report that those shares had been ''extinguished.''
But as far as Emmis is concerned, extinguished is not the same as gone. It figures that they can still be voted as the company's board wishes. And the board wishes to extinguish nearly all the rights of the preferred stock. It wants to cancel the unpaid dividends and never pay another dividend again. The only right remaining would be to convert each $50 preferred share into 2.44 common shares. At current prices, the conversion value is about $2.
How does Emmis think it can vote the dead shares? It says it did not really buy them, even though they are no longer alive under tax and accounting rules. Instead, the company says, it entered into a ''total return swap.'' The previous owners of the shares got a price -- often about $15 or $16 -- and no longer have any economic interest in the shares. But Emmis says those owners still have the voting rights and, as part of the swap, have agreed to vote them as Emmis orders.
Last week Emmis, which is incorporated in Indiana, asked a state court in Indianapolis to issue a declaratory judgment that its actions were proper. It names as defendants in the suit several institutional investors who own preferred shares and are resisting the company's move.
The company is represented by James A. Strain, a partner at Taft Stettinius & Hollister. Company officials have told investors he wrote the Indiana law and was confident that the Emmis strategy was legal. Taft's Web site states Mr. Strain, who declined to be interviewed, was ''one of the architects of the Indiana Business Corporation Law.''
There does not appear to be any direct precedent in Indiana, or anywhere else, for this particular strategy.
In Delaware, where most major corporations are incorporated, courts have held that a company need only comply with the contract with preferred investors, loopholes included. That is what Emmis claims it is doing.
''We've got a contract,'' Patrick M. Walsh, the company's chief financial officer, told me. ''The rights are spelled out in that contract. We feel like we are acting in the corporation's and the shareholders' best interests.''
But there are also cases in Delaware that could point the other way. ''For many years, Delaware decisions have expressed consistent concerns about transactions that create a misalignment between the voting interest and the economic interest of shares,'' the state's Supreme Court said in a 2010 decision that quoted articles by Henry Hu, a law professor at the University of Texas.
I asked Professor Hu, who was also the first director of the division of risk, strategy and financial innovation at the Securities and Exchange Commission, to look at the Emmis plan.
''I would think that a Delaware court would strain hard to say that not only is there a misalignment, but this is a negative economic interest,'' he said, and added that the shares would be voted in the interests of the common shareholders, who were seeking to profit by taking away the rights of the preferred shares.
The battle is even more complicated than the above would indicate. Unable to get two-thirds of the shares that had been issued, Emmis decided to issue some more to a newly created employee benefit plan. The right to vote them will go to Jeffrey H. Smulyan, the Emmis founder and chief executive. Add those votes to the ones it already has, and the company would have the two-thirds majority even if every actual investor in the stock voted against the plan.
A shareholder meeting on Monday will approve creation of the employee benefit trust and issuance of the preferred shares. Since Mr. Smulyan controls a majority of the votes, through super voting shares, the outcome is not in doubt.
After that vote, the company plans to hold another shareholder meeting as soon as possible, perhaps within weeks. At that meeting, the preferred shares are to be stripped of their rights, and the directors elected by the preferred shares are to be kicked off the board.
Financing the purchases and ''total return swaps'' was not easy for Emmis. Its bank lenders demanded and got $1.1 million in fees to allow the purchases, but did not provide the cash. That came from a $35 million loan from a fund run by Sam Zell, the real estate investor whose previous venture into the media world, taking over the Tribune Company, ended in bankruptcy. Emmis is paying an interest rate of 22.95 percent.
Emmis management is not happy with the criticism it has been receiving. Mr. Smulyan told me he did not want to see the minority preferred shareholders left out in the cold, and that such an outcome would not happen if the institutional investors blocking the deal would stop being so ''greedy and unrealistic'' and agreed to sell out on terms the company deemed to be fair.
Mr. Smulyan tried to take Emmis private in 2006 and again in 2010, with the last effort blocked by a failure to get support from enough preferred shareholders. He told me he had no intention of making a third try. Instead, he said, he had acted only after some preferred investors asked for a way to sell their stock.
He argues that his strategy is not very different from a tactic companies sometimes use, of soliciting consents from bondholders or preferred shareholders at the same time as they tender for the securities. That tactic can be very coercive, but at least the votes are cast by people who have a stake in the company when they cast them.
I learned of this case from James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, who wrote in the current issue of that publication that a victory for Emmis ''would shake the presumption that contract law applies even when, from the point of view of the insiders, it would be more convenient if it didn't.''
There are 126,221 preferred shares of Emmis now held by investors who have neither sold out to Emmis nor joined the blocking group. Most of those shares appear to be owned by individual investors, some of whom probably paid $50 a share for them in 1999.
If there is no settlement, and if the Indiana court rules as Emmis expects, those shares will be worth about $2, thanks to a voting arrangement that the old Chicago Democratic machine would have found all too familiar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Articles by Henry Hu, a professor at the University of Texas, were quoted in a ruling about the economic interests of shares. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Jeffrey Smulyan, the founder and chief executive of Emmis. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREFERRED STOCK (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NEW ISSUES (76%); STOCK REDEMPTIONS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GOING PRIVATE (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); JUDGES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); BULGARIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1203 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Romney Supporters Yearning for the Personal Side

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio -- The voters were pleading with Mitt Romney to share personal details of his life. They stood at town-hall-style meetings and chatted before rallies, clamoring for a story or an anecdote that would help them connect with the real Mitt Romney.
''I wish that you would speak more to a lot of the things that I think you should speak about -- the fact that you were pastor at your church, the fact that you were a missionary, the fact that you do speak about helping with the Olympics,'' Mary Toepfer, 40, of Warren, Ohio, said at a recent event.
Without these kinds of stories, she added, ''it's hard for us, who are trying to support you, to address them when trying to explain to them why you would be the better candidate.''
Another voter, another day, spoke up in Bexley, Ohio, beseeching Mr. Romney to open up. ''I'd like you to share with all the American citizens that are watching right now,'' the man said, ''to show the American people that you have a lot of heart.'' 
On the campaign trail these days, voters often talk frankly of their yearning to get more from Mr. Romney. Some Republicans seem so eager for a leader who can rouse the passions of the party faithful that they are offering advice directly to Mr. Romney, suggesting that if he revealed more of himself and made more of a human connection, he could better harness the enthusiasm of the conservative grass roots for defeating President Obama.
But even if Republican voters appear increasingly eager to fall for him, it is not clear that Mr. Romney can satisfy their desire for warm, revealing moments. His campaign advisers say that as the primary season winds down, they expect Mr. Romney will have more opportunities to talk about himself in a personal way.
He has already started to appear again in more settings that lend themselves to intimate exchanges with voters and will soon do longer interviews, which he has largely avoided, during which he can dole out tales about himself.
Still, the aides say Mr. Romney has a natural reticence -- he regards talking about himself as bragging, they say. And they are all too aware of his susceptibility to awkward or off-key statements when it comes to disclosing personal information, like the story he told to voters in Wisconsin on Wednesday about his father, as head of American Motors, closing a factory in Michigan and moving the production to Wisconsin.
They say they also do not want to distract from his chief campaign theme, how his experience as a businessman and a governor has prepared him to help fix the economy.
''I think people underestimate the trauma there is out there for voters who want someone to help them,'' said Stuart Stevens, a top Romney strategist. ''There's a balance between an election being about you, and an election being about the voters.''
The challenges for Mr. Romney were clear in some recent campaign appearances. Standing at a Romney rally in Kirkwood, Mo., a few days before the state's caucus this month, Ginny and Ray Lester, both retired, said they were leaning toward supporting Mr. Romney, but wished he would share more of himself.
''He's got some good stories to tell, and I don't think he tells them very well,'' Mrs. Lester said, wondering aloud why Mr. Romney rarely talks about how he supported his wife during her struggles with multiple sclerosis and breast cancer.
Mr. Lester added, ''I don't think Romney toots his own horn enough.''
At a University of Chicago appearance before the Illinois primary, a professor introducing Mr. Romney mentioned that the candidate was named after his father's first cousin, Milton Romney, who was a quarterback for the Chicago Bears in the 1920s. Mr. Romney took the story and ran with it, joking, ''I think by naming me Mitt Romney they assumed I would inherit some of his athletic talent -- I did not.''
The crowd clearly loved the line, and yet Mr. Romney never mentions it without prompting.
Similarly, while friends and fellow Mormons give accounts of his generosity, Mr. Romney tends not to volunteer them. It is tricky, of course; talking about his family's charitable foundation could remind voters of just how rich he is (an estimated net worth of $200 million), while mentioning his lay counseling of fellow Mormons would draw attention to his faith, about which many evangelical Christian voters are wary.
Still, there are tales that presumably could do no harm.
''There's so many stories of Mitt helping and reaching out and helping other people, and he's very modest about it and he doesn't talk about it,'' said his wife, Ann, when asked by Neil Cavuto of Fox News this month why she and her husband rarely talk about how he supported her during her illnesses.
Now, she and other surrogates are trying to do the job that Mr. Romney seems uncomfortable, or unwilling, to do himself. On the stump, Mrs. Romney often talks of warm family moments, and she recently made two Web videos, filled with images and memories of the couple and their five sons. Garrett Jackson, a personal aide to Mr. Romney, has also been deployed to start a blog intended to offer a window into the candidate's daily life.
Aides, however, talk about finding the right balance. Especially in the modern political era of Twitter and nonstop blogs, they worry that opening up with some personal stories could lead to every little personal quirk becoming fair game for criticism.
While the Romney campaign expects it will have another chance to re-introduce Mr. Romney to Americans if he becomes his party's nominee, some Republican voters are hungry -- now -- for a better sense of him.
At an event this month, a man asked if Mr. Romney would share the story of when he had closed down his Bain office and traveled to Manhattan with his staff to look for a partner's daughter who had disappeared after a party. The voter said he had seen pro-Romney ''super PAC'' advertisements recounting the ''rescue,'' but he wanted to hear the story from the candidate.
''I haven't thought about that for a while, so let me see if I can get the facts straight,'' Mr. Romney began, a hint of hesitation in his voice.
But he quickly gained confidence, and started into a tale about how the Bain team had printed out fliers and scoured the streets.
''And so there we were, a bunch of folks in suits walking around in the parks of New York and in the streets and showing pictures and saying when we saw teenagers, 'Have you seen this girl?' '' Mr. Romney said.
The crowd sat mesmerized. When he reached the happy ending -- the girl was found safe in a New Jersey home -- the audience erupted in applause, clearly eager to hear more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney after a campaign event in Youngstown, Ohio, this month. Mary Toepfer, below, used such a gathering to ask Mr. Romney to share more personal stories with supporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1204 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Line on Iran Places the Administration in a Bind

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER, THOM SHANKER and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As American and European diplomats prepare for crucial negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program, the White House finds itself caught in a bind: for the diplomatic effort to work, American officials say, the Iranian government must believe that President Obama is ready and willing to take military action.
Yet tough talk, necessary as it might be for successful diplomacy, contributes to a sense that war may be unavoidable. And it masks the fact that Mr. Obama, and his military commanders, remain deeply worried about the consequence of an attack on Iran's nuclear facilities, either by Israel alone or a strike that could draw in the United States.
''Obama had two main objectives -- to deflect Israeli pressure to conduct or acquiesce in a premature war, and to neutralize Republican criticism that he is too soft on Iran and too hard on Israel,'' said Robert Malley, program director for the Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group. ''On those fronts, mission accomplished.'' 
But, Mr. Malley added, ''victory came at a price.'' By stating clearly that containment of a nuclear-armed Iran is off the table, Mr. Obama may have committed America to military action to halt Iran if other means fail to do so, Mr. Malley said.
Some White House officials acknowledge that in an election year when Republican candidates are calling for tougher action against Iran, the misgivings expressed by the Pentagon -- both publicly and privately -- over a strike could provide the president with some political cover.
A classified war simulation conducted by United States Central Command this month to assess the repercussions of an Israeli airstrike, for example, found that an Israeli attack could lead to a wider regional war, draw in the United States and leave hundreds of Americans dead, providing recent evidence to the skeptics -- not only in the Pentagon but also in the White House and intelligence community as well -- who have warned that any action by Israel against Iran could prove perilous.
At the same time, some current and former administration officials worry that any hesitancy about considering military action that is expressed in the United States could lull the Iranians into thinking that they do not need to make concessions at the negotiating table, just at a time when the diplomatic effort has taken center stage.
''For diplomacy to work there has to be a coercive side,'' said Dennis B. Ross, a former senior official at the National Security Council who handled Iran policy. ''If the Iranians think this is a bluff, you can't be as effective. The message to the Iranians is: you've got an option.''
And even Israeli officials who have pushed for tougher action from the United States say they would much rather see a diplomatic end to the crisis. ''At the end of the day, Israel doesn't want to strike Iran either,'' one Western diplomat said.
Added David Makovsky, an Israel expert at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy: ''The next move on the chess board is diplomacy. It has to be diplomacy, and there has to be an effort to get diplomacy to work.''
But some White House officials clearly feel that diplomatic options for resolving the crisis are being overlooked amid all the talk about force. The risk, they say, is that the debate will take on a momentum of its own.
There is also a sense at the White House that the administration is not getting enough credit for putting together a global coalition to enforce economic sanctions against Iran that is also creating the conditions for a possible diplomatic solution to the problem -- even as administration officials say the military option is never off the table.
White House officials declined to discuss these deliberations on the record, citing their extreme sensitivity, both with the Israelis and with other parts of the administration, chiefly the Pentagon.
Mr. Obama, after his meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel this month, warned Republican candidates and others against ''loose talk'' of war. Yet at a news conference with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, the president said the window for diplomacy with Iran was ''shrinking.''
There are differences of opinion among top administration officials about the likelihood of a pre-emptive Israeli military strike.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., for example, is said to be less worried than Mr. Obama that Mr. Netanyahu will pull the trigger in the coming months, several officials said. Mr. Biden bases his judgment on his long relationship with Mr. Netanyahu, which dates from the prime minister's first stint in office in the 1990s.
But unlike the internal administration debate over Afghanistan, the White House and Pentagon appear to be on the same page about Iran. Whatever the cliche about military leaders being more gung ho about going to war than their civilian counterparts, the reality is that the American military has often led the argument against military engagement, including in the recent conflict in Libya, past conflicts in Bosnia and Rwanda, and even now on the question of whether the United States should engage militarily in Syria.
The concern about going to war with Iran that is emanating from the Pentagon did not start with Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta. His predecessor, Robert M. Gates, as well as Adm. Mike Mullen, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were equally outspoken.
''Both of those guys were counseling on the risks of military action, and quite publicly,'' said a senior military official. ''Their successors have reaffirmed that -- and that is where the building's leadership is on this.''
Senior Pentagon civilian officials and military officers say the cautious Iran comments from Mr. Panetta and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the current chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are not part of any organized messaging campaign by the White House.
''As is appropriate in addressing a matter of this importance, senior leaders from across the government -- led by the president -- have discussed the potential consequences of a military conflict with Iran,'' said George Little, the Pentagon press secretary.
The warnings, officials said, reflect the assessments by both leaders that an Israeli preventive attack on Iranian nuclear facilities may provoke a round of counterattacks that might lead to a wider war that would involve the United States after years of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Pentagon officials said they were aware of reports in the Israeli news media of high-level unhappiness, up to and including the office of Mr. Netanyahu, at the stern warnings issued by Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey.
''The chairman's job is to provide options and to provide the risks and benefits of various options,'' a senior Pentagon official said, referring to General Dempsey. ''But ultimately, the civilian leaders -- the National Command Authority -- make the final decision.''
Several military officials said the cautious tone set by Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey flowed directly from the fact that one of the military's metrics in weighing potential conflict is the body bag.
''We are going to bear the brunt of any retaliation from Iran,'' said another senior military officer. ''It will be our men and women, whether overt and ugly or covert and just as ugly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Monday after speaking on Iran, North Korea and nuclear security during a conference in Seoul, South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); ISRAEL (96%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1205 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Its Budget Blueprint, Mostly Along Party Lines

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A fierce two-day debate over a Republican budget plan portrayed as either a path to prosperity or a road to ruin ended Thursday with House passage of a blueprint that would transform Medicare, cut domestic spending to levels not seen since World War II and order up a drastic overhaul of the tax code.
The plan, which passed 228 to 191, with no Democratic votes and 10 Republican defections, will form the template around which much of the 2012 election will be fought. Democrats will try to hang its extensive changes to Medicare around the necks of vulnerable Republican candidates, along with the accusation that Republicans supported a program to punish the poor and elderly while rewarding the rich with still more tax cuts. Republicans will say theirs is the party willing to make the tough choices to tame a soaring federal debt. 
''It is so rare in American politics to arrive at a moment in which the debate revolves around the fundamental nature of American democracy and the social contract, but that is exactly where we are today,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee and the architect of the blueprint, adding, ''Today's budget is a vote of confidence for the American experiment.''
Democrats said they saw nothing brave in voting to decimate programs for the poor, like food stamps and Medicaid, while offering potentially huge tax cuts for the rich.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said, ''Today's vote stands as another example of the Republican establishment grasping onto the same failed economic policies that stacked the deck against the middle class and created the worst financial crisis in decades.''
The budget's prescriptions will not become law this year. Leaders of the Democratic-controlled Senate have made clear they will not pass any budget, and instead will rely on spending caps established last July during the showdown over the federal debt limit.
But the plan drafted by Mr. Ryan will probably become the standard by which Republican candidates for the House, Senate and White House are measured. Notably, Representative Denny Rehberg, who is seeking a Senate seat in Montana, was one of the 10 Republicans who voted no.
And the plan will remain a political focal point of Congress for months.
The budget orders six House committees to draft plans to cut the deficit by $261 billion by early May to help avert automatic cuts to the military that will take place under last summer's agreement unless a broad deficit reduction plan is passed.
Cuts that are relatively abstract now will become concrete in a matter of weeks -- and will hit nutrition, health care and welfare particularly hard. The House Judiciary Committee will have the task of raising nearly $40 billion over 10 years by curbing medical malpractice suits. The House Government Oversight Committee must find nearly $80 billion over the coming decade, largely from federal workers' pensions. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, whose jurisdiction spreads from health care to welfare, must find $97 billion in savings.
''I don't know how you write any of these bills because the numbers are going to be pretty dramatic,'' said Representative Steven C. LaTourette, Republican of Ohio, citing $47 billion that must be cut from the transportation budget in the coming fiscal year, just as senators are pressing to preserve current levels of infrastructure spending.
And because the Senate will not follow suit, some Republicans say the exercise will yield nothing but rancor and political pain.
''I don't know that other than the comity of the committee, it will make much difference anywhere,'' said Representative Frank D. Lucas of Oklahoma, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, which must cut $33 billion, largely from nutrition programs. ''We're all smarting a bit, but sometimes we all have to pull the wagon to get there.''
Under the Ryan plan, spending would be cut $5.3 trillion below President Obama's budget through 2022. Medicare would be reduced by $205 billion. Medicaid and other health programs would be cut $770 billion. Other entitlement programs, including welfare, food stamps, agriculture subsidies and transportation, would be cut by nearly $2 trillion.
Programs at the discretion of Congress would be cut $352 billion below the levels requested by the president over 10 years. To do that, House spending bills will have to come in well below the caps set last July. In the fiscal year that begins this October, the House plan sets spending on domestic programs $19 billion below the limit in last summer's Budget Control Act.
Medicare would be turned into a subsidized set of private insurance plans, with the option of buying into the existing fee-for-service program. The annual growth of those subsidies would be capped just above economic growth, well below the current health care inflation rate.
The Republican budget mandates the repeal of Mr. Obama's health care law and assumes the elimination of the government-backed mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
It also orders up a sweeping overhaul of the tax code. The six existing personal income tax rates, topping off at 35 percent, would be reduced to two -- 10 percent and 25 percent -- with the revenue loss offset by the elimination of unspecified tax deductions and exemptions.
Under the House plan, the current $1.18 trillion deficit would fall to $797 billion in the coming fiscal year, compared with $977 billion under Mr. Obama's plan. But by 2016, the deficit would fall to $241 billion by Republican estimates. The Congressional Budget Office estimates Mr. Obama's budget would still have a $529 billion deficit.
The Ryan plan would accumulate $3.1 trillion in additional debt through 2022. The president's would add $6.4 trillion.
Passage is only the start of the process. Representative Fred Upton of Michigan, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which will be responsible for producing the most cuts, said he had known for only a couple of weeks what was expected of him.
Making the cuts will not be easy. For instance, the House Financial Services Committee must produce 10-year savings of $29.8 billion, which budget experts believe will come from dismantling the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The federal government took over both programs in 2008. But Representative John Campbell, Republican of California and the co-author of bipartisan legislation to phase out Fannie and Freddie, said he did not believe the exercise should make or cost money.
''What we do with Fannie and Freddie should be linked to housing finance, not about plugging a $10 billion hole in the federal budget,'' he said. ''That would be very short-sighted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan, right, Republican of Wisconsin, is the architect of the blueprint. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (69%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (60%); MEDICAID (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1206 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Appealing to a Justice's Notion of Liberty

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The way to frame a Supreme Court argument meant to persuade Justice Anthony M. Kennedy is to talk about liberty. It is his touchstone and guiding principle, and his conception of liberty is likely to determine the future of President Obama's health care law.
If the administration is to prevail in the case, it must capture at least one vote beyond those of the court's four more liberal justices, who are thought virtually certain to vote to uphold the law. The administration's best hope is Justice Kennedy.
The point was not lost on Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who concluded his defense of the law at the court this week with remarks aimed squarely at Justice Kennedy. Mr. Verrilli said there was ''a profound connection'' between health care and liberty.
''There will be millions of people with chronic conditions like diabetes and heart disease,'' he said, ''and as a result of the health care that they will get, they will be unshackled from the disabilities that those diseases put on them and have the opportunity to enjoy the blessings of liberty.'' 
Paul D. Clement, representing 26 states challenging the law, had a comeback. ''I would respectfully suggest,'' he said, ''that it's a very funny conception of liberty that forces somebody to purchase an insurance policy whether they want it or not.''
Justice Kennedy's understanding of liberty is idiosyncratic, and there is every reason to think that both lawyers' arguments in the concluding minutes of the argument on Wednesday afternoon resonated with him, said Helen J. Knowles, the author of ''The Tie Goes to Freedom: Justice Anthony M. Kennedy on Liberty.'' (The title is telling. Another book on the justice, by Frank J. Colucci, is called ''Justice Kennedy's Jurisprudence: The Full and Necessary Meaning of Liberty.'')
''I really don't think Justice Kennedy has any idea at the moment how he's going to vote in these cases,'' Professor Knowles said.
Indeed, the evidence from the key argument on Tuesday, on the constitutionality of the health care law's requirement that most Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty, was mixed.
Justices tend to ask more questions of the lawyers whose positions they oppose, and Justice Kennedy posed six questions to Mr. Verrilli and just three to the two lawyers challenging the law.
The questions to Mr. Verrilli were, moreover, mostly easy to read. They were crisp expressions of discomfort with the administration's arguments.
''Can you create commerce in order to regulate it?'' Justice Kennedy asked.
''This is a step beyond what our cases have allowed, the affirmative duty to act to go into commerce'' he said. ''If that is so, do you not have a heavy burden of justification?''
''Can you identify for us some limits on the commerce clause?'' he asked.
Those questions fit neatly within one strain of Justice Kennedy's understanding of liberty, one he discussed at length last year in an opinion for a unanimous court.
Limiting federal power, he wrote, ''protects the liberty of all persons within a state by ensuring that laws enacted in excess of delegated governmental power cannot direct or control their actions. By denying any one government complete jurisdiction over all the concerns of public life, federalism protects the liberty of the individual from arbitrary power. When government acts in excess of its lawful powers, that liberty is at stake.''
The case concerned a federal prosecution of a domestic dispute. Mr. Clement was the lawyer on the winning side.
But there is another strain to Justice Kennedy's conception of liberty, one that may help Mr. Verrilli. ''When you think about liberty relative to Kennedy,'' Professor Knowles said, ''the element most important to him will be the idea of individual responsibility. He thinks the government has the power to ensure that the responsible exercise of liberty be done in an educated manner.''
That impulse seemed to inform the most closely scrutinized exchange on Tuesday.
''The young person who is uninsured,'' Justice Kennedy told Michael A. Carvin, a lawyer for private parties challenging the law, ''is uniquely proximately very close to affecting the rates of insurance and the costs of providing medical care in a way that is not true in other industries. That's my concern in the case.''
Mr. Carvin responded that the law actually frustrated individual responsibility. ''They're compelling us to enter into the marketplace,'' he said, but ''they're prohibiting us from buying the only economically sensible product that we would want, catastrophic insurance.''
That answer may or may not have satisfied Justice Kennedy, but it was alert to his thinking. As Ilya Shapiro wrote in The Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy in 2010, ''Justice Kennedy's jurisprudence is a constant struggle to find the right balance between liberty and responsibility.''
Justice Kennedy's critics say his pronouncements on liberty are empty of real content.
In 1992, joining with Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and David H. Souter to uphold the core of the constitutional right to abortion identified in Roe v. Wade, Justice Kennedy wrote by way of explanation that ''at the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life.'' Justice Antonin Scalia later mocked this as the ''famed sweet-mystery-of-life passage.''
Justice Kennedy has participated in three decisions on the scope of federal power under the Constitution's commerce clause. He twice voted to strike down the law before him. Most recently, he voted to uphold a law allowing federal regulation of home-grown medicinal marijuana.
He wrote an opinion in one of the cases, a concurrence explaining why a law concerning guns near schools had to go. The decision rested, he wrote, on ''the theory that two governments accord more liberty than one,'' which he said gave rise to a ''grave constitutional obligation if democratic liberty and the federalism that secures it are to endure.''
Writing in The New Republic in 2010, Eric A. Posner, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said Justice Kennedy's writing could be vapid and disappointing for its lack of rigor. ''Liberty, in his mind, explains the right to abortion, but does not stand in the way of certain limits on abortion,'' Professor Posner wrote. ''In what sense, then, does this commitment to liberty have explanatory power?''
Justice Kennedy may be hard to read, but it does not stop people from trying. The Supreme Court chamber grows a little quieter when he asks a question, and other justices seem to grow more attentive. And the lawyers who argued before him this week indicated intimate familiarity with his writings and a fine-tuned sensitivity to trying to satisfy him.
On hearing that Justice Kennedy had concerns about how young people without insurance affect others' rates, Mr. Carvin paused before he answered.
''I may be misunderstanding you, Justice Kennedy,'' Mr. Carvin said. ''I hope I'm not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Justice Anthony M. Kennedy (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, center, with Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., left, and Justice Clarence Thomas at the Capitol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) (A19) CHARTS: Ask Me No Questions ... Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote in a 2005 paper that ''the secret to successful advocacy is simply to get the Court to ask your opponent more questions.'' Studies have confirmed this theory, finding that justices tend to ask more questions of the lawyers whose positions they oppose. During arguments this week over three questions on the health care law, like-minded justices tended to focus their questions on the same lawyers.: Is the individual mandate constitutional?
If the individual mandate is ruled unconstitutional, must the rest of the health law fall as well?
Was Congress entitled to impose conditions on the states in expanding the Medicaid program? (Sources: The Supreme Court
 ''Inferring the Winning Party in the Supreme Court from the Pattern of Questioning at Oral Argument,'' Lee Epstein, William M. Landes and Richard A. Posner.) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); HEART DISEASE (68%); DIABETES (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (64%); WRITERS (63%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (91%); JOHN ROBERTS (73%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1207 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Science) TED TALKS In this collection of the best TED conference talks, the producer and director J. J. Abrams tells of a ''mystery box'' he received as a child that he never opened, explaining that his fascination with the unknown drives his work. Bonnie Bassler, above, a molecular biologist, discusses a chemical language that allows bacteria to communicate. Robin Ince, a comedian, riffs on the relationship between science and wonder. And the inventor Skylar Tibbits speaks about the future of building and the nascent science of self-assembly.
8 P.M. (CBS) UNDERCOVER BOSS The chief executive of Yankee Candle learns how his company works at the store level when he dons a disguise (a curly wig and a soul patch) and pretends to be a new hire. But his go-getter attitude raises eyebrows when he expends considerable effort on customer service, and he almost blows his cover when he speaks up testily about a store's sloppy appearance. 
8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Rita Wilson, right, the actress and a producer of the film ''My Big Fat Greek Wedding,'' travels to Greece to piece together her family history. She visits her father's birthplace and hometown, then follows in his footsteps to Bulgaria, where he lived in difficult circumstances before traveling to the United States.
8 P.M. (Fox) KITCHEN NIGHTMARES The fourth season concludes as Gordon Ramsay visits Zocalo, a Mexican restaurant in Philadelphia, with plans to improve the food by teaching the chef to use high-quality ingredients (and to cook with the types of cheese that recipes call for).
9 P.M. (13) SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY AT 100 This installment of ''Great Performances'' celebrates the San Francisco Symphony's centennial with Itzhak Perlman, who performs Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto, and the pianist Lang Lang, who plays Liszt. The program also includes narration about the history of the orchestra.
9 P.M. (HGTV) LIVING ABROAD The host Chi-Lan Lieu heads to a new international destination for each episode of this series, which profiles Americans living all over the globe. In the premiere episode Americans living in Tokyo learn to speak and read Japanese and experience culture shock as they adjust to costly, compact apartments; puzzle out the complex subway; and share a dynamic, vibrant metropolis with millions of others. At 9:30 Americans in Dubai describe a place that adheres to religious traditions and abounds with opulence.
9:30 P.M. (TMC) THE JOB (2009) Forget data entry. The temp agency in this film, directed by Shem Bitterman, wants candidates for much more serious, and lethal, work. Bubba (Patrick Flueger), who is unemployed and desperate for a job so he can get married, accepts a murder-for-hire offer without being fully prepared for the responsibilities.
11 P.M. (Showtime) DRIVE ANGRY (2011) Nicolas Cage (below right, with David Morse) plays a man who escapes from hell to save his grandchild from a cult of Satan worshippers in this movie from Patrick Lussier. ''The details of his character are both preposterous and beside the point,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. Amber Heard plays a gruff waitress with a chip on her shoulder who joins Mr. Cage to ''drive angry'' in a 1969 Dodge Charger in order to find the nefarious cult leader before the next full moon. Mr. Scott wrote that the film could almost be mistaken for a ''whole retrospective of disreputable '70s B pictures'' from ''the same vintage as some of its cars.''
11:35 P.M. (FLIX) EATING RAOUL (1982) Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov play a strait-laced married couple who dream of moving out of Los Angeles and opening a restaurant in the country. But they are stuck in a Hollywood apartment building crawling with swingers and drunks. One reprobate breaks into their home and assaults Mary, so Paul kills the man with a frying pan. Finding a lot of cash in the dead man's wallet, they get an idea for raising money for their dream restaurant and clearing their community of unsavory characters. In his review in The Times, Vincent Canby called the film ''a very funny comedy about sex, murder and cannibalism'' that is ''full of smiles, punctuated here and there by marvelously unseemly guffaws, but most of the time it works its little wonders quietly.'' THOMAS GAFFNEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORMAN Y. LONO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FAMILY (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); BACTERIA (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (65%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (62%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: J J ABRAMS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (78%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (78%); JAPAN (51%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1208 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: And Now, the Wait for the Health Care Ruling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''On Day 3, Justices Weigh What-Ifs of Health Ruling'' (front page, March 29):
Medicare for all would be constitutional. Everyone would be automatically covered regardless of employment or health status. 
Businesses and individuals would pay a tax that varies with ability to pay. Business managers would be able to concentrate on their business without the distraction of having to provide insurance. Individuals would be able to switch jobs without worrying about insurance, and would choose their own doctors and hospitals. Based on experience, most retirees and their children are strong supporters of Medicare.
Medicare has a better record of controlling provider fees and administrative costs than private insurance companies. Under our private insurance system, medical costs are 17 percent of our gross domestic product, while in other advanced countries the costs don't exceed 12 percent.
Whether or not the Affordable Care Act is ruled unconstitutional, it's time to start building support for enacting Medicare for all.
LAURENCE SEIDMAN Swarthmore, Pa., March 29, 2012
The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Delaware.
To the Editor:
Justice Antonin Scalia said that how the court rules could not be divorced from the realities of the political process in Washington, which he said was beset by ''legislative inertia.''
Justice Scalia, thank you for announcing that the political dimension of the health care law is, in your opinion, relevant to deciding its constitutionality. Thanks to you, should a 5-to-4 decision by the Roberts Court invalidate the law, your statement will ratify the decision as a political one.
JEAN C. RUSH Tucson, March 29, 2012
To the Editor:
On Wednesday, as the Supreme Court was deciding whether to throw out the entire health care law if the mandate was declared unconstitutional, Justice Antonin Scalia asked, ''You really want us to go through these 2,700 pages ... item by item and decide each one?''
Yes, Justice Scalia, I'd like you and your colleagues to do that. You're paid to decide the constitutionality of acts of Congress, not throw out entire laws because of their length.
CARRIE ABELS Montpelier, Vt., March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (68%) VERMONT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1209 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Global Agreement Said to Be Near on Drawing From Oil Reserves

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY; David Jolly reported from Paris and Annie Lowrey from Washington.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Francois Fillon, the French prime minister, suggested Thursday that a deal was near among developed countries, including the United States, to tap strategic petroleum reserves to reduce gasoline prices.
There are ''good prospects'' for a deal, Mr. Fillon told France Inter radio, adding his voice to those of other French officials who have said in recent days that the idea, which they attributed to the Obama administration, was under discussion among countries including the United States, Britain and Japan.
''If we reach an accord with the other developed countries, we'll draw on our stocks, push down the price for a limited time,'' Mr. Fillon said. ''It's a way to face a crisis that is largely due to the situation today in Iran. But we shouldn't expect any miracles. It could allow us to stabilize the price, reorient it a little lower.'' 
The price of U.S. crude oil futures for May delivery fell nearly 2 percent Thursday.
Domestic political concerns on both sides of the Atlantic may be a factor in the current discussions. President Barack Obama faces a re-election in November, with gasoline prices at $4 a gallon or more in some states.
His French counterpart, President Nicolas Sarkozy, may be feeling even greater pressure to act, with gasoline prices in the Paris area at more than 2 a liter, or $10 a gallon, and a first-round election test less than one month away.
Nations build oil stockpiles, like the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the United States , to insure against major shocks to supply, like those caused by wars or natural disasters. Last June, the United States and its allies agreed to release 60 million barrels of emergency oil reserves to replace lost Libyan production, helping to soften a spike in prices.
Oil prices have risen for a number of reasons, including sanctions against Iran in the standoff over its nuclear ambitions, reduced exports from Syria, Yemen and South Sudan, and demand from India and China. Central banks' quantitative easing policies, which leave more dollars, yen and euros chasing a finite quantity of the commodity, may also be contributing to the rise in prices.
Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the largest oil producer in the world, said Wednesday in an opinion piece in The Financial Times that the kingdom would also do its utmost to hold prices down so as not to derail the global economic recovery.
''The use of strategic stocks is supposed to be the last bullet,'' Olivier Jakob, an oil analyst at Petromatrix in Zug, Switzerland, wrote in a report Thursday. ''If Western powers are seriously envisaging this, then it only shows the lack of commitment they have received from Saudi Arabia to replace the Iranian oil that is falling under the embargo.''
''Looking at the way Europe has managed the Greek crisis,'' he added, ''we should now expect a sound bite about stock releases every day.''
Mr. Fillon's remarks followed similar comments from other French officials. Valerie Pecresse, the budget minister, sought Wednesday to temper expectations of immediate action, saying the government was waiting to see fresh data on the oil market from the International Energy Agency, the Paris-based body that analyzes oil market conditions.
The I.E.A.'s executive director, Maria van der Hoeven, said last week that any move to tap reserves -- something normally coordinated by the I.E.A. -- would be up the countries involved. But in an apparent softening of the I.E.A.'s position, she said in a statement Thursday that the agency was concerned by the impact of high oil prices while the global economic recovery remained fragile.
''The I.E.A. is closely monitoring market developments and will remain in close contact with member countries to exchange views about the oil market situation,'' she said. ''As we have mentioned many times, the I.E.A. was created to respond to serious physical supply disruptions, and we remain ready to act if market conditions so warrant.''
An Obama administration official said Wednesday that no decision had been made about how to proceed. ''While this is an option that remains on the table, no decisions have been made and no specific actions have been proposed,'' Josh Earnest, the deputy White House press secretary, said at a briefing in Washington, Bloomberg News reported.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Francois Fillon, France's prime minister, spoke of a possible deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Gas prices at an Exxon Mobil station in Albany, N.Y., last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); FUTURES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS FILLON (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (58%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CHINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1210 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Quinn Exempts Part of Hudson Yards From Living-Wage Bill

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, already facing skepticism over her handling of legislation that would raise wages for some private-sector workers, has decided to add an exemption for one of New York's biggest pending developments, Hudson Yards.
A large portion of the Hudson Yards project, a 26-acre mixed-use development along the city's Far West Side, is specifically excluded from the proposed so-called living wage legislation in a draft that was written by Ms. Quinn's office and is now circulating among supporters of the bill. 
Ms. Quinn plans to ask her colleagues next month to approve the long-debated bill, which would require companies and developers that receive substantial city subsidies to pay their employees at least $10 an hour. She had already announced that the legislation would exempt tenants in projects that receive city subsidies from paying the living wage; only the direct employees of the developers and some contractors would be affected.
The Hudson Yards exemption caught many of the bill's supporters by surprise, according to people who were briefed about the legislation in telephone calls in recent days and in a meeting on Thursday morning.
Some supporters of the legislation were already concerned that it would not apply to enough employers, and raised concerns that the bill was being further weakened.
Councilman G. Oliver Koppell, a Bronx Democrat and one of the bill's sponsors, acknowledged on Thursday that some advocates of the measure were unhappy with the new exemption, which would affect the portion of the Hudson Yards development between 10th and 11th Avenues.
''While I'm not happy with excluding any project, the fact that one project is excluded, if that's something that the speaker's office insists on -- in my view, that should not derail the whole deal,'' Mr. Koppell said.
A spokesman for the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which has pushed for a living-wage measure and has been working with Ms. Quinn's office on a compromise, emphasized on Thursday that the language was a work in progress.
''We are still hammering out the details of the bill based on the framework of an agreement that was announced in January,'' the spokesman, Dan Morris, said in an e-mail. ''We do not yet have a final bill. A number of issues and proposals are still being discussed. We expect the bill to be finalized in the next few weeks.''
A spokeswoman for Ms. Quinn, Maria Alvarado, made the same point, saying in an e-mail: ''The final version of this bill and its details are still being drafted. The legislation has not been finalized.''
A spokeswoman for the developer, the Related Companies, declined to comment.
The living-wage bill is opposed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and by the real estate community. But the Partnership for New York City, a business group, said in January that it would support a version of the legislation that exempted tenants.
The proposed living wage is significantly higher than the state's minimum wage, which is $7.25 an hour, and would be even higher, $11.50 per hour, for employers that did not provide employee benefits.
The legislation is one of three measures addressing economic inequality that have proved challenging for Ms. Quinn as she has prepared to run for mayor next year. On Wednesday, the Council approved a bill that would require landlords who receive city subsidies to pay janitors, security guards and other service workers a ''prevailing wage.'' Ms. Quinn has said she does not support a third proposal, which would require many employers to provide paid sick leave.
Related is one of the city's largest developers, and it has been a significant contributor to political campaigns. Its employees have donated $34,200 to Ms. Quinn's campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LIVING WAGE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); APPROVALS (72%); RETAILERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1211 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Light Blue Skies Ahead for Glasgow Rangers

BYLINE: DAVID KILPATRICK


HIGHLIGHT: As Glasgow Rangers continue to struggle financially, the club and its fans drew solace from last week's Old Firm derby win against Celtic. 

 BODY:
GLASGOW -- In the 140 years of Glasgow Rangers' history, the past six weeks have arguably been the most turbulent, as the defending champions in Scotland's Premier League faced the prospect of ceasing operations as the club went into administration (the British form of bankruptcy) because of financial mismanagement.
As the news surfaced in the middle of February of debt in excess of 35 million (about $56million), with tax liabilities and penalties that may reach as high as 75 million (about $120 million), the league punished the club by deducting 10 points from Rangers in the standings, effectively taking the title and handing it to their crosstown archrivals, Celtic.
Not only were any hopes of another title for the 54-time league champions dashed, their ability to finish the season was in jeopardy until players took remarkable action, agreeing to pay cuts of 75 percent for the top earners, 50 percent for those in the middle and a 25 percent reduction for the players earning the least.
Rangers and the United States men's national team midfielder Maurice Edu sat down with the Goal blog two days beforelast Sunday's match against Celtic, at the Rangers training complex, Murray Park. He explained the players' choice to accept pay cuts:
"It was, it is, difficult. To be placed in that situation in those circumstances is something I don't think anyone saw coming nor did anyone welcomed. But at the same time we were placed in that situation, with our backs against the wall, and the only thing we could do was try to stick together and do what was best, not only for the group, but for the club going forward. As a collective we made a decision on what was the right approach, the best way to protect everyone and keep this squad together and avoid a more disastrous situation. Now we're just trying to focus on the playing side. Obviously it's not an easy task, because it's still in the back of our minds. People's lives have been altered and affected. But at the end of the day, we all love playing for this club."
Not only did this action mean players would remain with the team, the club was able to avoid firing front office staff and other employees. Still, major uncertainties remain as administrators seek to secure a more viable financial plan and decide from among five groups bidding to purchase the club. Three losses in a row at the club's fabled fortress, Ibrox, are evidence that the off-field crisis affected the team's performance on the field.
Still, heading into last Sunday's match, Rangers fans had reason to fear further indignity as Celtic would clinch the title with a win at Ibrox, something that has not happened since 1967, and where the Light Blues had never lost four in a row. Some thought the script was written for a final act. At the prematch news conference, a French journalist left veteran Lee McCulloch dumbstruck when he asked how it felt to prepare for what might be the last Old Firm derby. Celtic fans hoping to drive the last nail in Rangers' coffin carried one on their way toward Ibrox for the match.
But as Richard Wilson, author ofInside the Divide: One City, Two Teams The Old Firm, explained via email, the threat to Rangers is a threat to Celtic and all of Scottish soccer. "Rangers and Celtic are the main economic drivers for the game," he wrote. "They generate around 85 percent of the income and all of the significant commercial deals are reliant on the presence of the Old Firm. The two clubs rely on each other for emotional, commercial and financial sustenance."
Given the severity of the crisis, players were not the only ones making sacrifices to ensure the club's survival. Fans have raised more than 250,000 (about $399,000) to help with short-term costs. As Gordon Stewart, the secretary of the Rangers Supporters Trust, said, "the true extent of the situation may still be unknown but the future has begun to look brighter."
With perhaps nothing more than pride on the line, that was enough, as Rangers had the last laugh on a surprisingly warm and sunny day, spoiling the visitor's party with a thrilling 3-2 win in a match many claimed was the most intense and entertaining in the storied Old Firm rivalry.
Rangers were winning, 3-0, with a two-man advantage, before the American defender Carlos Bocanegra was red-carded and Celtic came back with two goals in the last five minutes. When the final whistle blew the score was 3-2 for Rangers, and the players and fans celebrating a victory of historic and symbolic magnitude. Before the match, Edu (who played the full 90 minutes) hoped a win over Celtic could "bring some joy back to the club after this kind of dark period."
With joy came hope the dark days for Rangers had passed.

        
Old Firm Clash on Tap for Edu's Debut
        
Rangers' Americans Most Likely on the Way Out
        
In Glasgow, an Altered Landscape but the Same Old Firm
        
Yanks Abroad: Edu No Longer the Lone Ranger
        
May 14-15: This Weekend's Top European Matchups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) Glasgow Celtic; Glasgow Rangers; maurice edu; Edu, Maurice; Soccer; Scottish Premier League; Glasgow (Scotland)

ORGANIZATION: Scottish Premier League

PERSON: Edu, Maurice

GEOGRAPHIC: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (94%) SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Glasgow (Scotland)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1212 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: Two-Year College To Charge More For Top Classes

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A two-year-school will charge more for top classes, a panel advises more testing for obesity drugs, claims for jobless benefits hit a four-year low and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:
jobless benefits

        
Two-year college to charge more for top classes. (National)
        
Panel recommends more testing for obesity drugs. (Business)
        
Claims for jobless benefits hit a four-year low. (Business)
        
The Supreme Court and health care reform. (Economix)
        
Older women struggle to make ends meet. (Economix)
        
OnStar stages a show for helicopter parents. (Wheels)
        
Half of American mobile customers own smartphones. (Bits)
        
Making sense of the wacky weather. (Green)
        
When less treatment is more. (Well)
        
$200 a month beauty treatments for babies? (Motherlode)
        
Among doctors, a fierce reluctance to let go. (The New Old Age)
        
Selective schools are even more selective this year. (The Choice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); BARIATRICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (83%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); SMARTPHONES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1213 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Morning Buzz, March 30: No More Synthetic Marijuana

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER REEVE


HIGHLIGHT: Morning Buzz: What we're reading in The Times and elsewhere, including articles about Comptroller John C. Liu's campaign problems and a simple safety tip for subway riders. 

 BODY:
N.Y./Region
A former Yonkers councilwoman and a political operative were both found guilty of corruption in a Manhattan federal court on Thursday. The operative had testified he secretly gave the former councilwoman, Sandy Annabi, what prosecutors said totaled $195,000 because he had fallen in love with her, and not to buy her support for development projects, which she did provide.
The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, is expected to call for New York University to reduce the scope of its expansion plan in Greenwich Village. The university's other option, to more intensely develop land already within its realm, has also faced local resistance.
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, has exempted Hudson Yards employers from her proposal to require employers receiving substantial city subsidies to pay workers at least $10 per hour.
The existing pedestrian thoroughfare some call Sixth-and-a-Half Avenue, which connects 51st and 57th Streets in Midtown, may gain official recognition by the addition of stop signs to increase public safety.
According to the latest report from the New York State Department of Labor, although the city added 25,000 jobs last month, the unemployment rate still managed to rise, reaching 9.6 percent, up from January's 9.3 percent.
The New York Police Department is being sued for what plaintiffs and the New York Civil Liberties Union say are aggressive policing tactics in and around buildings that participate in the city's Clean Halls program. Landlords in the program allow police officers access to their buildings in an effort to reduce crime.
"Sources" reported that a Manhattan lawyer who insisted on focusing "on really odd points" led two fellow jurors in a deadlock on a rape charge against a New York City police officer, Michael Pena, who was convicted in the sexual assault on a 25-year-old woman. [Daily News]
Although City Comptroller John C. Liu said he had a letter from city ethics officials approving campaign activities at the comptroller's office, he was able to produce only a memo signed by his general counsel. [New York Post]
The Sixth Precinct's commanding officer, Brandon del Pozo, said he advised the Greenwich Village McDonald's that was the site of three violent episodes in the last year to adopt tactics as one would for a bar. [DNA Info]
In the Rockaways in Queens, police officers are waking up sleeping subway riders to help them avoid becoming crime victims. [Daily News]
Would-be millionaires from all walks of life bought lottery tickets for a chance at the $540 million Mega Millions jackpot. What would someone do with the winnings? A London banker said she would retire and spend time with her horses. A homeless woman said, "I would take care of a lot of people." [New York Post]
Both the New York City and State health departments banned the sale of synthetic marijuana on Thursday. The substance, which has been available in New York City for several years, is manufactured in labs and sprayed onto plant leaves before being sold under names like "Galaxy Gold" and "Spice." [Metro]
One World Trade Center will soon overtake the Empire State Building as the tallest building in New York City. [Capital New York]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); VERDICTS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); ETHICS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); HORSES (69%); CANNABIS (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); LOTTERIES (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%) Morning Buzz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1214 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Vice: Panic attacks, nausea, skin rashes -- it's bananaphobia! A chat with those who fear and loathe the elongated yellow fruit. -- (Via Grub Street.) ...
: ... And a report on a sister sickness: rampomania! A wild-foods advocate deplores the packs of foragers now swooping down on ramps, and offers advice for ensuring the plant's survival. -- Patrick Farrell
Serious Drinks: For your weekend pleasure, an excellent primer on bourbon. -- Eric Asimov 
: The long-dormant Willett Distillery, just south of Bardstown, Ky., has returned to whiskey-making, increasing the number of active Bourbon distilleries in Kentucky to 14. The reborn Willett plant is a rarity in the bourbon world: a small, independent, family-owned distillery. -- Robert Simonson 
Men's Journal: The complete tool kit for Marcus Samuelsson's chock-full vegan soup at his Red Rooster Harlem, with orzo, spinach, miso, rice wine and avocado. So flavorful, they insist, that you can hold the bacon! -- Glenn Collins 
LA Weekly: Son of a Gun, Hungry Cat, La Cevicheria, Sea Harbour and Providence make a list of the best seafood restaurants in the Los Angeles area. ...
: ... While Acme, Isa, Tertulia and Crown join this men's mag's crop of the "sexiest" new restaurants in America. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Westchester Magazine: Julia Sexton swoons over a bottle of boutique maple syrup made in the Hudson Valley. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Times: A slippery sort of gold rush is on in Maine, where anglers are making fortunes catching elvers -- little eels that are much in demand in Asia -- and selling them for as much as $2,200 a pound. -- Patrick Farrell
I Married An Irish Farmer: Blog wisdom: "Don't ask yourself why you're making clotted cream, just do it." -- Jeff Gordinier
Nation's Restaurant News: Despite mild weather and a rebounding economy, a key economic indicator for the nation's casual dining restaurants in March -- same-store sales -- won't just decline but will sink to the lowest level since December, 2010, according to an analyst for Janney Capital Markets, who predicted that now the restaurant sector "apparently needs to regain some momentum just to reach flat." -- Glenn Collins 
Tasting Table: We smell a future food-truck business model: Make way for broodjes, the Dutch version of sliders. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Gems are awaiting you among the lesser-known nebbiolo wines of the northern Piedmont. Ed McCarthy explores. -- Eric Asimov
Eater: Spring is here and soft-shell crabs are starting to arrive. Here's where to eat them in New York. ... -- Jeff Gordinier 
Epicurious: ... Another spring favorite has a little spring in its step: rhubarb, pumped up to 80 proof as Rhuby, an organic spirit that makes a mean cocktail. -- Patrick Farrell
The Jewish Daily Forward: More musings on why matzo ball soup, kreplach, gefilte fish and kasha varnishkes are suddenly chic. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Herbivoracious: Rice + mushrooms = kinoko gohan, otherwise known as a bowl of Japanese comfort. -- Jeff Gordinier
Eater: Diane Chang, the young New Yorker held up in New York magazine this week as emblematic of a wave of 20-something eating-out obsessives, tells her own story. Yes, she says, food is nice, but it's not everything. -- Patrick Farrell
The Austin Chronicle: How to go vegetarian in Texas. -- Jeff Gordinier
Poetry Foundation: "The Ice-Cream Man," a heartbreaker of a poem from Michael Longley, one of the literary lions of Northern Ireland. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISTILLERIES (91%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); WINE (87%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (87%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SAME STORE SALES (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (66%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (61%); MEAT FREE DIETS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1215 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Michaels Stores Files for I.P.O.

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The initial public offering of the arts and crafts giant is expected to be one of the most hotly anticipated I.P.O.'s of the year. 

 BODY:
Michaels Stores, the Texas-based purveyor of knitting needles and pipe cleaners, is planning to raise as much as $500 million in its public debut, according to a filing made with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday.
The initial public offering for the arts and crafts giant, which was reported earlier this week, is expected to be one of the most hotly anticipated offerings of the year. Michaels plans to list itself on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "MIK." The company said it plans to use the proceeds from the offering to pay down debt and for "general corporate purposes."
The amount of stock to be offered in the Michaels debut, and the price at which those shares are expected to sell, has not yet been made public. The preliminary size of the offering given in the filing is used to calculate registration fees, and could change before the stock goes public.
The private equity firms the Blackstone Group and Bain Capital have owned Michaels since they took it private nearly six years ago in a landmark $6 billion deal. The company lost $29 million in 2007 and $7 million in 2008, according to the S.E.C. filing, but has been turning around as the fog of a consumer recession has lifted. Last year, Michaels - which has 1,066 stores as of this month - generated a profit of $176 million.
John B. Menzer, the company's chief executive, made $2.5 million in total compensation last year, according to the filing.

        
Michaels Stores Prepares for an I.P.O.
        
No Tears as Shareholders Approve Michaels Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Bain Capital; Blackstone Group; Michaels Stores; The Blackstone Group; The Blackstone Group|BX|NYSE; I.P.O./Offerings; Private Equity; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Bain Capital; The Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (55%) The Blackstone Group; BX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN B MENZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1216 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: When 'For Richer, For Poorer' Is Put to the Test

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Being unemployed for long periods can test even strong marital unions. But there are several strategies couples can use to help them cope -- both financially and emotionally. 

 BODY:
This week's Your Money column discusses how long-term unemployment can take a toll on couples' relationships. 
Couples who don't communicate well in good times tend to run into the most trouble. But even the strongest unions are likely to hit some rough patches when a spouse's situation doesn't improve for many months, and possibly years, causing the family's finances to spiral downward.
I spoke with several experts, all of whom recommended different strategies to both help stabilize the couple's financial situation, while keeping them connected as a couple.
What sort of coping mechanisms or tools have you used to help pull through a a financially challenging period? Please share your thoughts in the comment section below.

        
How Far Would You Go for a Financial Comeback?
        
Americans Split Over Whether Recovery Will Endure
        
Fresh Takes on the Job Market for the Unemployed
        
Some Tips for Unemployed Older Americans
        
F.T.C. Claims Abusive Tactics by Two Debt Collection Firms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (66%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (51%) Money and Relationships; Unemployment

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1217 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: How the White House Thinks It Can Bring Jobs Back to America

BYLINE: CHRYSTIA FREELAND


HIGHLIGHT: In her latest Page Two column, Chrystia Freeland lays out why the U.S. President believes manufacturing need not be the agriculture of the 21st century. 

 BODY:
Call it the triumph of Rhineland capitalism. For decades, the Anglo-Saxon consensus has been that manufacturing was in decline and that its replacement by the service sector - as most glitteringly represented by finance - was both inevitable and welcome. Only dirigiste Europeans, the transatlantic conventional wisdom had it, thought the government could or should try to hang on to its industrial base.
Then came the financial crisis. That, obviously, made a lot of people question whether finance should play quite so central an economic role. In the United States, another consequence was the unexpectedly successful government rescue of the Detroit carmakers.
The result is a new enthusiasm in the White House for manufacturing, most concretely manifest in the president's proposal to tax manufacturers at 25 percent, three points lower than the general 28 percent corporate tax rate he is proposing. The idea caught some flak from economists, who happily rehearsed the usual cautions against the government trying to pick economic "winners" and "losers."
In a speech this week, Gene Sperling, the wonkish director of the National Economic Council and assistant to the president for economic policy, laid out the intellectual justification for the policy shift. His arsenal is a fistful of academic studies. You can start with "Restoring American Competitiveness," by Gary Pisano and Willy Shih, published in the Harvard Business Review in 2009. And you can read my column this week, in which I talk to Mr Sperling and unpack his argument.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CORPORATE TAX (54%) economics; Gene Sperling; industrial policy; U.S. economy; Sperling, Gene; Factories and Manufacturing; United States Economy; Harvard Business Review; Detroit (Mich); Page Two

ORGANIZATION: Harvard Business Review

PERSON: Sperling, Gene

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (88%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1218 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: 6 Tips About College Admissions Results

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Some words of wisdom from readers who've survived the college admissions process. 

 BODY:
For students, the results of the college application process can be both an exhilarating and painful experience. There are the surprises of being accepted into reach schools, and the rejections from colleges once considered shoe-ins. And, of course, the purgatory of the wait list.
Once all those acceptances, rejections and deferments are tallied, there is the stark realization that it is time to choose your future. Many students have until May 1 to make up their minds.
For some, the choice will be easy. For others, the decision will require further analysis, financial calculations and, perhaps, some soul searching to find the right fit. 
On Thursday, readers of The Choice gathered around our virtual kitchen table to share admissions results and reassurances. Here are some words of wisdom from readers who joined us:
1. Don't take it personal.
Here's what one reader, identified only as "R," had to say:
I had a brilliant English teacher who looked at a room full of the top students at my competitive New England high school and said, "The elite colleges pull out the files for all of the most qualified applicants, stand at the top of a long staircase, and toss them down. The ones that reach the foot of the staircase are admitted. Accept admissions decisions, good or bad, with a grain of salt and some humility." 
I went to a great college (not Ivy), was accepted to Teach for America, and now attend a top graduate program and I have no doubt that the caliber of the institutions I attended shaped me in a positive way. That being said, I've never forgotten my teacher's advice and I pass it on as often as possible. The top programs are worth fighting to get into, but neither admission or rejection is as personal as it feels. Good luck!
Eln, who has two daughters who are now college grads, said:
Both my daughters (Vassar 08 and Mount Holyoke 11) were accepted to several schools that were dream schools and rejected or wait listed by a couple of dream schools too. They both professed to be happy with their acceptances and were really happy with their eventual choices.
BTDT reminded students to remember the important things in life:
Remember, whether you are crying tears of joy or sorrow about your admissions decisions, you are not defined by the institution that awards your college degree. Getting in doesn't mean life's doors are now open to you without effort and drive. Being rejected doesn't mean your dreams are suddenly and forever dashed. Sure, celebrate or mourn for a bit, but then realize that the truly important stuff - the love of family, the support of close friends, the desire to learn and explore - really hasn't change at all. No matter what your envelopes say, you have survived a lengthy and often exhausting process of self-reflection and you should be commended. Well done. The world eagerly awaits your contributions.
2. Choose between price and prestige.
"M," a current college student at a "Top 20 school in Chicago (University of Chicago or Northwestern, your guess)" said:
Although I absolutely LOVE my school, sometimes I feel guilty that my parents are paying so much for my education. Some days of class are a waste, and some material I feel like I could learn at a state school for a fraction of the price.
If you will struggle with student loans for decades after you go to an Ivy League or equivalent, it isn't worth it. There is no magic education wand that these Top 20 schools have. You are only paying for pedigree.
One parent, "j janas," acknowledges that the choice is a tough one to make:
My son was accepted at my alma mater, a fairly selective private liberal arts college. However, the acceptance felt almost like a rejection, as he did not receive one penny of merit aid. We have saved for his education since he was a baby, but obviously his college savings took a huge hit with the economic times. So now, this college is out of the picture because we cannot fathom him finishing college with approximately 80K in student loans to cover what we don't have in savings. His other top choice is a well regarded public university which is much less expensive. I just wish that the choice of the college that he attends be based on the best fit for him, not the one we can best afford.
3. Visit your prospective campuses. (Again.)
Some advice from one parent to another:
One hint to parents - accepted student weekends are super important (they turned the tide for both my kids in their eventual decisions) and sincere conversations with financial aid officers about differing financial aid packages can make a difference.
4. Develop a P.R. strategy about your college plans.
One reader, Jennifer, suggested the silent treatment:
I think the hardest part is not just being rejected at face value by these schools, but having to endure the incessant questions posed by teachers and other students: "Were you accepted? Did you get money? Where are you going?" Although all of the people involved in this process are very supportive, it hurts to admit you are rejected from your top choice.
In these times, I feel as if it is almost better to not tell anyone where you are applying - though it's hard, it will make potential rejections or even waitlists all the more easy.
A mother named Anne, has an alternative solution for students who feel pressured when others ask about their college plans:
Years ago one of my sons solved that by announcing to everyone who asked that he had decided to attend truck-driving school, rather than college. Boy, that shut everyone up quick! In fact, he went on to graduate from a public university, and then on to get a masters and gainful employment. But it's still fun when we run into people in town who want to know how our truck-driving son is doing!
5. Have a good weekend. Seriously.
A post-results plea to parents, from a reader:
And parents, be kind to your kids. No matter if they got into their first choice or their fifth. Celebrate with them in some way whether it's a dinner out or a batch of homemade cookies. Make sure they know that if they did not get into their first choice that you are disappointed FOR them, not disappointed IN them. That's a big difference and even at 17/18 many kids want their parents to be proud.
6. Make the most of your choice.
A college student named Katherine is happy that she chose not to apply to an Ivy League school:
I was one of the only students at my (very competitive) high school who did not apply to an Ivy League school. Instead, I applied to places that I believed would accept me and offer financial aid. I ended up at Texas Christian University with a partial scholarship and a year's worth of credit hours already under my belt. I've had the most amazing professors in the world, ones who truly care about and are focused on their students. I'm graduating early with a fantastic and fulfilling education and I do not regret my decision in the least. It isn't where you go; it is what you make of it when you get there.
More advice from GN, a parent:
There are many pathways to success and happiness. My daughter last year decided to attend a liberal arts college instead of an Ivy after being accepted at many schools (including Ivies) and deciding that she felt she would be happier at a liberal arts college given the atmosphere, smaller classes, and fit for her. Scholarship money at the smaller college was not the deciding factor but certainly made the cost about half of what the Ivy would have been. She is now very happy about her choice, loves school and is very glad she made the choice she did. Great education is available at many schools, and largely is what you make of it and the work you put into it.
And, for now, a final word from "AD":
Our society puts entirely too much emphasis on where you go to school, and not nearly enough on what you do when you get there. Every major college and university in the United States has top notch professors, researchers, artists and a bevy of intelligent students from a variety of backgrounds. Find them and make the most of these resources.
After you choose your school, please remember: the student who pushes him/herself to learn more, experience more and engage the professors and your intelligent colleagues more, will get infinitely more from their college education than the student who does the minimum to get by. A student from the lowliest state college, who has done this will benefit more from their college experience, and be better prepared for the world a head than the disengaged and disinterested student from the most prestigious private college.
Best of luck to the Class of 2016, where ever you go to College or University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (93%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Admissions Buzz; Admissions Lore; College Applications; For Parents; For Seniors

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1219 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Budgeting Around the World

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: What share of consumer spending goes to things like housing, entertainment and health care in the United States, Canada, Britain and Japan? 

 BODY:
The Bureau of Labor Statistics recently released a fascinating report on how American consumers spend their money, and how that compares to spending behavior of their counterparts in other rich countries.
The numbers refer to 2009, when the United States recession hit its lowest point, so of course spending habits may have changed since then. The comparisons are still striking, though. For example, Americans spend a relatively small share of their spending on clothing as well as recreation and entertainment, at least compared to their counterparts in these other countries.
Not surprisingly, Americans devote a higher share of their budgets to out-of-pocket health care costs -- 6.9 percent, versus about 4 percent in Canada and Japan and 1.4 percent in Britain.
These other countries, like all rich countries aside from the United States, also have some form of government-subsidized universal health care, which helps brings down consumers' out-of-pocket costs. You might assume, then, that citizens of these other countries actually pay about as much as Americans do for health care once you take into account taxes and government spending.
You'd be wrong, though. 
If you look at rich countries' total health care spending per capita, the United States still comes out spending significantly more than its peers:

        
Some Good Economic News, but Will It Last?
        
Job Losses Across the Developed World
        
Going on a Diet? Start Paying in Cash
        
Spending on Housing and Transportation Fell in 2009
        
What We're Reading: Best Presidents Ever

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); DIETING (64%) consumer spending; Food; health care; international economics; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



1220 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Primary Overshadowed by Recall

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The backdrop for Tuesday's primary between Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum in Wisconsin is the bitter battle being waged by the state's unions to recall Scott Walker, the Republican governor. 

 BODY:
For most of this year, the arrival of the Republican presidential contest in town has quickly become the biggest political story of the day in those places.
But not in Wisconsin.
The backdrop for Tuesday's primary between Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum in Wisconsin is the bitter battle being waged by the state's unions to recall Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican. 
Mr. Walker's efforts to revamp the state's collective bargaining laws inflamed public opinion. Earlier this year, Democrats in the state filed petitions with nearly one million names in order to force a recall election. 
The election could happen by early summer. The state's election board is due to rule Friday on whether the petitions are valid, paving the way for a primary in May and the election in June.
That fight is by far the bigger political story in the state and has already dragged both of the presidential hopefuls into the kind of sticky, local squabble that they would normally rather avoid.
Instead of local politicians rushing to praise the presidential candidate of their choice, the last week of campaigning in Wisconsin has featured the opposite: presidential candidates praising the embattled governor.
"The people of Wisconsin, they're looking for someone like a Scott Walker who's willing to tell it like it is," Mr. Santorum told a Milwaukee television station recently. "You know what he believes. You know he's not going to back down."
Mr. Romney also had praise for Mr. Walker. "So I can only tell you that I think his effort to try and rein in the excesses and to try to give the state a more solid financial footing makes a great deal of sense, and I support him," Mr. Romney said.
The outcome of the primary in Wisconsin is crucial for Mr. Santorum, who has been struggling to show that he can win in Rust Belt states, where the campaign against President Obama may be won or lost.
That has proved difficult for Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, who lost to Mr. Romney in Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. Polls that once gave Mr. Santorum a lead in Wisconsin now show him falling behind Mr. Romney, in some cases by double digits.
Mr. Santorum has trailed Mr. Romney in national polls for weeks now, and Mr. Romney recently won a number of key endorsements, including one Friday from Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. On top of that, Mr. Santorum's campaign has struggled to match the advertising spending on behalf of Mr. Romney. 
Mr. Romney's campaign and the "super PAC" backing him have spent more than $4 million to broadcast commercials in the state, compared with just a half-million being spent by the Santorum superPAC.
But even that level of spending may have a tough time cutting through the attention being paid to the fate of the state's governor. The political clash between the governor and the unions has consumed the state for months - and it's just getting hotter.
NBC's political director Chuck Todd wrote on Twitter on Friday: "Btw, in our new NBC/Marist WI poll, more folks paying attn to Walker recall than WH race. Walker job rating is a polarized 48-48."
A spokesman for the Democratic Party of Wisconsin this week called the effort to oust Mr. Walker the "greatest petition campaign in American history" and said a successful recall would end the governor's "radical overreach and abuse of power."
A spokeswoman for Friends of Scott Walker accused Democrats of "failed policies that would take Wisconsin back to the days of a $3.6 billion budget deficit."
"Governor Walker looks forward to contrasting his record of laying the foundation for a more successful Wisconsin while moving the state forward," said Ciara Matthews, a spokeswoman for the group.
For the Democrats and the unions in the state, Mr. Romney's presence in the state has made him a target as well.
The Service Employees International Union issued a news release on Thursday with the subject line: "Mitt Walker: Failed Walker Ideas + National Romney Platform."
"It is not surprising that Mitt Romney, the presidential candidate for the 1 percent, praised Gov. Scott Walker's attack on our rights and freedoms, but calling him an excellent governor shows how out of touch with the real economy he is," said Dian Palmer, the president of the S.E.I.U. in the statement.
It is not the first time that Mr. Romney has gotten dragged into the squabbles over union rights that have played out in several states this year.
Visiting Ohio in October, Mr. Romney declined to support a Republican-backed referendum that supported tough anti-union legislation in the state. "I'm not speaking about the particular ballot issues," he said. "Those are up to the people of Ohio, but I certainly support the effort of the governor to rein in the scale of government."
When reporters tagged that a flip-flop from his earlier support of the referendum, Mr. Romney quickly revised his statement, saying the next day: "I'm sorry if I created any confusion in that regard. I fully support Governor Kasich's, I think it's called Question 2 in Ohio. Fully support that."
In Wisconsin, both of the Republican presidential candidates have been mindful of making sure that they are on the right side.
Campaigning in Wisconsin last week, Mr. Santorum took a shot at the unions, calling them "bullies."
"I know what it's like to fight the bullies," Mr. Santorum said during his first stop of the day, in Milwaukee. "And there's no tougher bullies than the public employee unions."

        
Will Santorum's Flashes of Anger Help or Hurt Him?
        
Where Are the Republican Elder Statesmen?
        
The G.O.P. Campaign Goes On Unnoticed
        
Santorum Waves Away Economics
        
Romney Is the Winner in Puerto Rico

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PETITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (56%) Gov. Scott Walker; labor unions; mitt romney; primaries; recall; Republicans; rick santorum; Wisconsin; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Walker, Scott K; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Service Employees International Union; Ohio; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%) Democratic Party; Republican Party; Service Employees International Union

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); SCOTT WALKER (91%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Ohio; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1221 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: At the Factory, BMW Tries to Minimize Its Carbon Footprint

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The automaker has squeezed efficiency gains in paint processes, facility cooling and energy delivery at its plant in Spartanburg, S.C. 

 BODY:
BMW is pursuing targets to reduce the environmental footprint of its plant in Spartanburg, S.C. Sean Noonan, chief financial officer at BMW Manufacturing Company and head of sustainability program planning, said in an interview Thursday that much of the heavy lifting had already been done and that further progress at the plant would be measured in smaller steps.
Mr. Noonan spoke Thursday in New York as part of the Investing in a Sustainable Future conference held by The Financial Times. He said the company had stated goals to lower consumption rates of energy and water per car produced, as well as emissions from the plant. "It's a process of continuous improvement to achieve those targets," he said. "We look at how much waste is coming out of each work station, and there's competition to reduce it. We're also looking at ways to avoid the waste in the first place."
Mr. Noonan said it was difficult to translate how meeting those targets necessarily would translate into sales gained or lost. "You can't really determine that," he said. BMW was compelled to push for greater efficiency because "it's our responsibility," he added.
Mr. Noonan delivered a point-by-point summation of BMW's sustainability efforts at Spartanburg, beginning with keeping the building cool. "It's very hot and humid in South Carolina, so it's been necessary to use air-conditioning in the plant," he said. "That's unusual to do in the European production environment, and it's a significant factor in our energy use." In an interview after his address, Mr. Noonan said a team of associates was able to reduce the cooling load by insulating the duct work and reducing the overall humidity in the plant, which made the environment feel cooler than it actually was.
As much as 50 percent of the energy needs of the plant are met with methane generated by the nearby Palmetto landfill, Mr. Noonan said. The cleaned and compressed gas travels 9.5 miles by pipeline to the BMW factory, where a pair of efficient turbines converts it to electricity. Hot water is also captured in a co-generation process.
Perhaps surprisingly, painting cars was identified as the most energy-consuming task at the plant, and BMW has reduced its load 30 percent through the use of an integrated paint process that combines the top and primer coats. "We don't get that many opportunities for that big a return, but they are there," Mr. Noonan said.
A fleet of about 100 hydrogen-powered forklifts provides zero-emission materials handling at the plant. Mr. Noonan said the forklifts' hydrogen refueling is quicker than electric charging. BMW, as readers who follow fuel-cell development know, has championed the adoption of hydrogen in automotive applications.
In Spartanburg, the company has also replaced existing metal-halide lighting fixtures on the production floor and in covered-parking areas with LEDs and other efficient systems. "We also realized that during the economic crisis, with production volumes going down, we weren't using the plant as efficiently as we might," Mr. Noonan said. "We led a big effort to reduce the base load during nonproductive times, including basic things like switching off computers and lights."

        
BMW and G.M. Discuss Collaboration on Advanced Technologies, Including Fuel Cells
        
Force India Formula One Racecar Goes Under the Brush for Charity
        
Feel the Urge to Paint? Use a BMW Z4
        
A Daddy-Daughter Outing at the Auto Show
        
Honda Recalls 554,000 CR-Vs and Pilots for Headlight Failure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (91%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (90%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL MFG (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); MATERIALS HANDLING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); METHANE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (75%); CONSUMPTION (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); LANDFILLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POWER COGENERATION (70%) bmw; carbon-dioxide emissions; energy; fuel cells; hydrogen 7; painting; Automobiles; Factories and Manufacturing; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; South Carolina; Environment; Industry News

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (96%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012



1222 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: In Wisconsin Speech, Romney Makes His Case Against Obama

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Days before the Wisconsin primary, Mitt Romney offered a forceful, and at times lyrical, speech laying out a stark and clear contrast between himself and President Obama. 

 BODY:
APPLETON, Wis. - Just days before the Republican presidential primary, Mitt Romney swept into Wisconsin, sounding general election themes and offering a forceful, and at times lyrical, speech laying out a stark and clear contrast between himself and President Obama.
"Barack Obama and I have fundamentally different visions for America," Mr. Romney said. "He spent the last three or four years laying the foundation for a new government-centered society. I will spend the next four years rebuilding the foundation of our opportunity society, led by free people and their free enterprises."
Mr. Romney, who often stumbles when reading from prepared remarks, delivered the 25-minute speech with the help of two teleprompters, and against a backdrop of both the American and Wisconsin state flags.
On a day when the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended their best first quarter in more than a decade, Mr. Romney also crystallized his basic critique against Mr. Obama, should the economy continue to improve.
"President Obama did not cause the recession, but he most certainly failed to lead the recovery," Mr. Romney said. "All in all, President Obama prolonged the recession and slowed the recovery. President Obama's economic strategy is a bust."
He added: "This is a president who was not elected on the strength of a compelling record of accomplishment but by a compelling personality and story."
If Mr. Romney adopted the tone of the presumptive nominee in his formal speech, delivered in a dark suit and red power tie, he also arrived in Wisconsin with the air of a frontrunner, complete with a lead of 7 percentage points over his chief rival, Rick Santorum, in a new NBC News/Marist poll. Friday morning, Mr. Romney picked up the endorsement of Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, a rising leader in the Republican Party and the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
Mr. Romney, who often says that Mr. Obama does not "understand" America and is taking his cues from the "Social Democrats in Europe," attacked the president on Friday for expanding the influence of government.
"Instead of doing everything possible to promote the power of the free enterprise system to create jobs and get us out of this crisis, Barack Obama has promoted the power of government," Mr. Romney said. "And the results have been predictable and dismal, but he has 'transformed' us, as he likes to say, closer to his vision of a government-centered society."
He did not once mention any of his Republican rivals and kept his focus squarely on the November election, which he noted in his opening remarks was "222 days" away. He ended his speech by urging the crowd to, "Join me. Walk together this Tuesday, and take another step until November 6th."

        
For Romney, a Four-Car Garage With Its Own Elevator
        
Santorum and Foes Spar on Day of Health Care Hearing
        
A.F.L.-C.I.O. President Calls for Romney Adviser's Dismissal
        
For Santorum, It's Three Strikes in a Row in Wisconsin
        
In Toledo, Biden Makes a Working-Class Appeal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (65%) 2012; obama; romney; Wisconsin; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); PAUL RYAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1223 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: For Romney, a Widening Gap Between Urban and Rural Support

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's difficulty in attracting rural voters during the primary season suggests he may have trouble unifying his party's base in the fall. 

 BODY:
After several early roadblocks, Mitt Romney now has a fairly certain path to the Republican nomination. He has received less support, however, among rural and more conservative voters - the base of the Republican Party in recent elections.
It is a similar situation to the one Senator John McCain faced four years ago. Two days after Super Tuesday in 2008, the Los Angeles Times wrote:
With John McCain racking up delegates on a steady march toward the Republican presidential nomination, deeply conservative voters are at a loss. They don't like McCain. They've tried, and failed, to stop him.
Substitute Mr. Romney for Mr. McCain and you have a good assessment of the 2012 Republican race. Dissatisfaction with Mr. Romney among conservative and rural voters has kept blood pumping through the arteries of Rick Santorum's candidacy, just as it did for Mike Huckabee's in 2008.
But the disparity in voting patterns between Republicans in rural counties and Republicans in and around cities this primary season has been even more pronounced than it was in 2008, suggesting Mr. Romney might have an even harder time than Mr. McCain in unifying his base and motivating them to vote in the fall.
One way to gauge the difference in rural and urban voting patterns is to look at a classification system from the White House's Office of Management and Budget, which divides counties into two types:
Metropolitan Counties include "core" counties, which have at least one densely populated urbanized area, and outlying counties that are economically tied to the core county as measured by the share of residents that commute to and from the core county.
Nonmetropolitan Counties include all counties that do not meet the definition of a metropolitan county.
Fuller definitions for each term are available here, but keep in mind that the metropolitan and nonmetropolitan classifications are not exactly synonymous with urban and rural. Nonmetropolitan counties include some less populated or more isolated suburban communities.
In primary states that voted on or before Super Tuesday (limiting the 2008 sample to contests that were held before Mr. McCain had sown up the nomination), Mr. Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, had relatively more support in nonmetropolitan counties than he did in metropolitan areas. But Mr. McCain still won a higher share of the cumulative vote in nonmetropolitan counties. That is not the case for Mr. Romney; Mr. Santorum has won more total votes than him in nonmetropolitan counties.
In addition, the imbalance in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan preferences is substantially larger this election cycle than it was in 2008. Mr. Romney's support is 11 percentage points weaker in nonmetropolitan counties than in metropolitan counties. Mr. McCain was just 3 percentage points weaker in these more rural counties.
A more granular picture of the urban-rural divide is available in the "Rural-Urban Continuum Codes" from the United States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service. The U.S.D.A. assigns every county in the nation a grade from 1 through 9, where a 1 denotes the most densely populated, urban counties and a 9 the most sparsely populated and isolated rural counties (full definitions here).
This shows the same broad pattern. Mr. Romney has won 44 percent of the cumulative vote in the most urban counties and just 29 percent in the most rural ones. He performed slightly better than Mr. McCain in the two types of counties that the U.S.D.A. classifies as most urban, but lagged behind him everywhere else.
It is difficult to pinpoint exactly why Mr. McCain was more successful than Mr. Romney in courting rural voters. Military installations are most often located in less populated regions, and perhaps Mr. McCain's military bona fides made the difference. Mr. Romney never served in the armed forces. Rural voters are also more likely to be evangelical Christians and they tend to have lower incomes, also factors that have not favored Mr. Romney.
But geographic factors have seemed to play a role in the Republican race alongside demographics.
Indeed, the geographic split between Mr. Romney and his Republican rivals has closely resembled the ones typically seen in a November campaign. Mr. Romney, as Democrats sometimes do in the fall, has often won a state by carrying a few high-population urban and suburban counties even while losing almost all others. Whether that will translate into turnout problems for Mr. Romney in November is unclear, but it is a nontraditional pattern for a Republican nominee.

        
Political Geography: Wisconsin
        
Romney's Michigan Win Stands as Climactic Moment in Campaign
        
Romney Could Net 50 Delegates From Maryland and D.C.
        
G.O.P. Campaign Could End Soon - But Not in Louisiana
        
Political Geography: Illinois

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); URBANIZATION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); SUBURBS (64%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (50%) 2008; 2012; John McCain; mitt romney; primaries; Republicans; rural; urban; Politics

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012



1224 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: The Supreme Court and the National Conversation on Health Care Reform

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Many Americans seem to feel they have a right to all the health care they need but should not be required to make provisions beforehand to pay for it, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Once again America is having one of its "national conversations" on health care reform. This time the buzz is over arguments before the Supreme Court on the constitutionality of certain provisions in the Affordable Care Act. The justices' rulings will be landmark decisions, because they will indirectly go much beyond the act itself to our entire system of governance.
A fine synopsis of the issues now before the court is provided in a report by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. The following decision tree illustrates the logical sequence of decisions.
The two major substantive decisions the Supreme Court has to make are: 
1. Whether Congress has the constitutional authority to mandate every legal resident in the United States to have insurance coverage for a specified package of health benefits (hereafter the "mandate") or whether that is an issue for the states to decide.
2. Whether Congress has the constitutional authority to expand eligibility for Medicaid benefits from the highly varied income thresholds that currently define eligibility to anyone under 133 percent of the federal poverty level (hereafter the "Medicaid expansion").
 Severability: If the court ruled that either the Medicaid expansion or the mandate, or both, were unconstitutional, it would then have to decide, for each provision, whether striking it down invalidated the entire Affordable Care Act or whether only the stricken provision was invalidated.
The legal jargon for this issue is "severability." To avoid having entire laws invalidated over one provision that may be found unconstitutional by the court, legislation typically includes an explicit severability clause. For either strategic reasons or inadvertently, such a clause was not included in the Affordable Care Act.
The Supreme Court devoted a session of argument on Wednesday to this issue, and the questioning by the justices suggested a range of opinions on the issue, so what the future of the entire law may be is uncertain.
 The Anti-Injunction Act: To rule on the mandate, the court will first decide whether the Anti-Injunction Act of 1867 applies to the mandate. The crucial issue here is whether the penalty exacted from individuals who choose not to obey the mandate to be insured is to be construed as a mere penalty or a genuine tax.
If the latter, under the Anti-Injunction Act the court should hear the case and rule on it only after someone has actually been forced to pay the penalty for violating the mandate, which could occur only in 2015 or thereafter.
The consensus among legal experts appears to be that the court will not feel bound by the Anti-Injunction Act and will rule on the mandate this year, most likely by the end of June.
 The Mandate: I have discussed the mandate in several earlier posts, including this one. As explained there, a mandate on individuals to be insured is an actuarially necessary complement to two strictures on private insurers that seem to be popular with the public:
1. "Community-rated" premiums, that is, premiums divorced from the health status of any particular applicant for insurance and charged to all applicants for an insurer's coverage
2. "Guaranteed issue," that is, the requirement that an insurer must sell an insurance policy to any applicant willing to pay that insurer's community-rated premium for that policy.
For decades, Americans have lamented in vignettes published by various news organizations the families, stricken with serious illness, who find themselves unable to procure health insurance at premiums they can afford or are refused coverage altogether.
The Affordable Care Act was written to solve this problem by subjecting private health insurers to community rating and guaranteed issue.
But if Americans want the benefits of these two strictures, they must also be willing to countenance the mandate to be insured. It is not legislative hegemony. It is an actuarial necessity.
As I had noted in a post, that insight was shared during the 1990s by many Republican policy analysts and policy makers, including Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, who now views the mandate as a violation of individuals' freedom. Republican legislators then openly countenanced the mandate and embodied it in federal legislation they proposed.
One can also view being insured for at least catastrophic health care a civic responsibility, as is the case in most other industrialized nations, including freedom-loving Switzerland. For example, asked in an interview in Health Affairs in August 2010 how he could defend the mandate to be insured to Swiss citizens, Switzerland's former secretary of health, Dr. Thomas Zeltner, responded:
That's easy. We will not let people suffer and die when they need health care. The Swiss believe that in return, individuals owe it to society to make provision ahead of time for their health care when they fall seriously ill. At that point, they may not have enough money to pay for it. So we consider the health-insurance mandate to be a form of socially responsible civic conduct. In Switzerland, "individual freedom" does not mean that you should be free to live irresponsibly and freeload from others, as you would put it.
Part of American exceptionalism, which we feel sets us apart from other nations, seems to be that Americans believe they have a moral right to critically needed health care, whether or not they can pay for it, but also believe that they should be free not to make financial provision for that event beforehand.
If the Supreme Court strikes down the mandate as unconstitutional - as it very well might, judging from the sharp and skeptical questions asked by the justices in arguments on Tuesday - it could lead to one of two distinct pathways.
First, as the Obama administration asserts, community rating and guaranteed issue would then have to be stricken from the Affordable Care Act. We would be back to the vignettes of Americans complaining about private insurers doing their actuarially sound and defensible thing, which can, however, be so devastating on American families.
An alternative would be to let these two provisions stand and force the insurance industry to live with them. As I explained in an earlier post, it would lead to what actuaries call the "death spiral" of individually purchased insurance, with shrinking risk pools of ever-sicker individuals and, naturally, ever-mounting premiums.
One could lambast the insurance companies for these ever-rising premiums, of course, but informed observers know better: the culprit would be the absence of a mandate to be insured. New York and New Jersey, which imposed community rating and guaranteed issue without a mandate to be insured, are living proof of that assertion. Risk pools there have shrunk and community-rated premiums have skyrocketed.
 The Medicaid Expansion: As is shown in the chart above, the Anti-Injunction Act does not affect the court's jurisdiction over the Medicaid expansion. If I had to bet, the court will rule this provision constitutional. After all, a state does not have to take part in Medicaid, which is heavily subsidized with federal money. The program is voluntary.
For the expansion, the federal government would pick up 100 percent of the cost in the first three years, which descends over time to 90 percent thereafter. For the existing enrollment, the federal government traditionally has picked up 50 to 80 percent of the program's cost.
The opponents of the expansion appear to hold that for the federal government to make all of its generous Medicaid subsidies to a state conditional on that state's agreement to expand Medicaid eligibility to 133 percent of the federal poverty level is so powerful a fiscal incentive as to be coercive and hence unconstitutional, even though participation in Medicaid is voluntary. It strikes me as a stretch.

        
Health Care: Solidarity vs. Rugged Individualism
        
Awaiting the Supreme Court's Health Care Ruling
        
Reaction to the Final Hearing on the Health Law
        
The Supreme Court and Health Care
        
The Leading Liberal Against Affirmative Action

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Supreme Court; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



1225 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Officials Reach Agreement on Euro Zone Bailout Fund

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN -- Seeking to reaffirm their determination to put the two-year-old euro crisis behind them, European finance ministers agreed Friday to create a permanent bailout fund for the euro zone with an effective firepower of almost 800 billion.
But the chance for an additional show of unity following the decision was undermined by the group's chairman, Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, and the Austrian finance minister, Maria Fekter, when she ended up announcing the agreement first. 
The incident led Mr. Juncker to leave the conference center visibly upset and to cancel his scheduled news conference, leaving several issues hanging at the two-day gathering.
Questions also persist about whether the fund, even at about $1 trillion, will be sufficient to deal with crises in major European economies like Spain and Italy.
The finance ministers from the 17 European countries that use the euro, known as the Eurogroup, incorporated huge sums of already committed money to create the headline figure of 800 billion for the new bailout facility.
''Finally, robust firewalls have been established,'' the ministers said in a statement.
Announcing a large bailout fund was viewed as crucial to putting an end to speculation over the fate of the currency union prompted by the huge indebtedness of Greece and financial crises in Ireland and Portugal.
But only 500 billion of the sum is fresh money and, of that, the full amount may not be available until 2014.
Instead, some unused funds from an earlier, temporary bailout facility could be accessed only during a transitional period, and ministers reached the final figure of 800 billion by including 300 billion already paid to Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
Some of these figures were originally meant to count against a new 500 billion fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, or E.S.M., which goes into operation in July.
The sum also is a far cry from the demands of international economic experts and of countries like France, where Finance Minister Francois Baroin called during the past week for a 1 trillion ''nuclear'' deterrent.
But a push during the meeting by Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, and by others to agree on a more substantial firewall was quashed by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, who said that would be unacceptable to Germans.
It also is unclear whether the sum is big enough to nudge donors to the International Monetary Fund, including the United States and China, to pledge more to the fund. Many economic experts and some U.S. officials had favored transferring all unused funds from the temporary facility, an amount currently totaling 240 billion, to the new permanent fund.
Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., said the agreement in Copenhagen would ''support the I.M.F.'s efforts to increase its available resources for the benefit of all our members.'' But she did not say whether the agreement was sufficient for the I.M.F. to direct more of its resources to Europe.
Whether the leaders of the Group of 20 countries would increase the overall global lending capacity of the I.M.F. to $1 trillion, as some reports suggest, ''is yet to be seen,'' said Gizem Kara, an economist with BNP Paribas in London.
The stormy exit of Mr. Juncker on Friday over announcing the agreement cast an unwelcome cloud over the introduction of a bailout mechanism that is meant to be a European equivalent of the I.M.F., and that is supposed to help Europe finally turn a difficult page.
The difficulties began when Ms. Fekter held an impromptu news conference Friday morning and announced that ministers had agreed on the size of the firewall. Mr. Juncker, the chairman of the Eurogroup, then hastily canceled his own scheduled news conference, blaming Ms. Fekter.
''There was no point'' in holding the event because ''the Austrian finance minister announced it,'' he said, referring to the firewall.
Mr. Juncker ''was furious, really furious,'' said an E.U. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.
Speculation is widespread over who will succeed Mr. Juncker when his term as head of the Eurogroup ends in June. The president is chosen by consensus by the members of the group, which holds its next meeting in May. Ministers could make a decision before May, or afterward, in the margins of other major E.U. meetings.
Decisions on several other policy-making posts, including at the European Central Bank, are far from made, as institutions try not to fill top positions with people from the same country.
The 800 billion figure agreed to Friday could help to placate Germany and Finland, where there is widespread concern that a more generous backstop could lead other countries to reduce their commitments to austerity and put other European taxpayers, who would bear the bailout funds' liabilities, at even greater risk.
Earlier in the day, some ministers made clear their reservations about expanding the size of the region's firewall to a sum approaching 1 trillion.
''We are ready to increase the firewall, but 940 billion is not possible for our side,'' Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen of Finland said as she arrived at the conference. ''It's too high and now we are looking for a result which we and other countries would accept.''
Ministers did agreed to capitalize the E.S.M. more quickly than previously planned by making the final instalment of five payments of 16 billion each in the first half of 2014.
The meetings in Copenhagen will continue Saturday among finance ministers from the full European Union.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the Eurogroup, and Maria Fekter, Austria's finance minister, on Friday in Copenhagen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORKIL ADSERSEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EURO CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (67%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (93%); GREECE (92%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1226 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Pragmatism on the Prairie

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN DYKSTRA. 
Gretchen Dykstra is working on a book about North Dakota from 1915 to 1920.

 BODY:
REPUBLICANS often accuse Democrats of being socialists. But in North Dakota, socialism has been thriving for decades. It is the only state with a state-owned bank and a profitable state-owned grain elevator and flour mill, both of which the good people of North Dakota, who mostly vote Republican in presidential elections, embrace and value. Both institutions began embroiled in controversy. With all the vitriol about socialism and radicalism in the national debate today, is there anything we can learn from North Dakota?
All state revenues are deposited in the Bank of North Dakota, which promotes agriculture, commerce and industry in the state. It was the first bank in the country to provide a federally insured low-interest student loan; it supports new farmers in a state that has some of the toughest laws in the country limiting corporate farms; and through partnerships with local banks, it guarantees loans to commercial and industrial enterprises that directly benefit North Dakota. Before he became governor and then a United States senator, John Hoeven, a Republican, was the bank's president. A Socialist Republican? That's weird. 
The high-tech grain elevator and mill towering above the prairies in Grand Forks is one of the largest and busiest in the country. The North Dakota Mill and Elevator Association competes with private grain elevators and mills but receives no taxpayer money to give it an unfair advantage and, like the bank, the association returns much of its annual profit to North Dakota's general fund. Isn't that socialism? What's going on?
At the turn of the last century, North Dakota farmers were hurting. Their farmland was rich, but the farmers were poor. Out-of-state bankers owned their mortgages, Minneapolis financiers and industrialists owned all the elevators and mills, the railroad tycoons controlled freight costs, and together they thwarted competition for the state's lucrative wheat market.
Around 1915, A.C. Townley, a charismatic former Socialist and failed farmer, emerged from the state's western grasslands to establish the Nonpartisan League, America's last great agrarian insurgency. Its platform included calls for a state-owned bank and state ownership of a grain elevator terminal and flour mill. Townley recruited candidates from the Republican and Democratic Parties to seek office. No marginalized third party for the Nonpartisan League. Within a few years, it controlled the legislature and all statewide offices.
The push back was extreme and nasty. In newspapers, pamphlets, lawsuits and meetings, even in faraway private clubhouses of New York, every conceivable insult -- Socialist, Bolshevik, anarchist, atheist, traitor, thief -- was hurled against Townley and his followers. But he gave as good as he got.
To finance the group's efforts, Townley charged farmers membership dues, hired organizers and traveled tirelessly across the state to meet with farmers. Sometimes thousands gathered to hear him speak. He showed a deep empathy for the farmers' plight and a brilliant ability to entertain and inspire.
In early 1919, just months after the league made a clean sweep of state and local offices, its plan was put in place. But within two years, the party had imploded. Townley's imprudence, his conviction for wartime sedition, accusations of management irregularities, splits within the group and relentless opposition all figured in its demise. In 1921, North Dakota held a special election and all three statewide elected officials were recalled, including the governor, a first for the United States. But on the same ballot a proposition to shut the bank failed and it went ahead.
The years ahead were rocky. The bank and the mill survived political upheavals, financial challenges, poor and at times illegal management. But both benefited from refinements, sometimes initiated by the very people who had opposed them. Eventually passions died and pragmatism prevailed.
Although some in North Dakota may be uneasy about the socialist roots of these institutions, today the bank is profitable and respected, providing economic leadership to the state and value to the people; the mill and its flour is a source of pride statewide. The people of North Dakota have long since put aside their anger and fear, and pragmatic government officials just keep doing what's right for the people, socialist or not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); AGRICULTURE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FLOUR MILLING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); WHEAT MARKETS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); FACTORY FARMS (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); LITIGATION (64%); GOVERNORS (58%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NORTH DAKOTA (84%); NORTH DAKOTA MILL & ELEVATOR ASSOCIATION (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (67%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (67%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN HOEVEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1227 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Arts And Crafts Chain Plans Stock Offering

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
Michaels Stores, the Texas-based purveyor of knitting needles and pipe cleaners, is planning to raise as much as $500 million in its public debut, according to a filing made with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday. 
The initial public offering for the arts and crafts giant, which was reported earlier this week, is expected to be one of the most hotly anticipated offerings of the year. Michaels plans to list itself on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol ''MIK.'' The company said it plans to use the proceeds from the offering to pay down debt and for ''general corporate purposes.''
The amount of stock to be offered in the Michaels debut, and the price at which those shares are expected to sell, has not yet been made public. The preliminary size of the offering given in the filing is used to calculate registration fees, and could change before the stock goes public.
The private equity firms the Blackstone Group and Bain Capital have owned Michaels since they took it private nearly six years ago in a landmark $6 billion deal. The company lost $29 million in 2007 and $7 million in 2008, according to the S.E.C. filing, but has been turning around as the fog of a consumer recession has lifted. Last year, Michaels - which has 1,066 stores as of this month - generated a profit of $176 million.
John B. Menzer, the company's chief executive, made $2.5 million in total compensation last year, according to the filing.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWING & CRAFT STORES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: JOHN B MENZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1228 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BELIEFS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Building a Business On Churches for Sale

BYLINE: By MARK OPPENHEIMER. 
Twitter.com/markopp1

 BODY:
AZUSA, Calif. -- In better economic times, workers in this dusty inland town east of Los Angeles built motor homes in the low-slung complex at 975 West First Street.
More recently, it was an assembly site for floats in the Tournament of Roses Parade. Today it is the home of two Hispanic Protestant churches, which rent space for Sunday services in two buildings set on 1.3 acres. So when the site's owners decided to sell the property, they called Raphael Realty.
David and Mary Raphael are real estate agents who deal only in church buildings. It's a rare specialty. They could think of only two other real estate agencies in the country that do what they do, one in Texas and one in Northern California. 
As they gave a tour of the sale property here, which is listed for $1.9 million, the couple talked about their calling.
''We've been doing only religious buildings since 1979,'' said Mr. Raphael, wearing a windbreaker on an unseasonably cold and rainy day. ''We tried houses, and we thought, well, some of these people are telling us things that aren't the truth, so maybe we should try churches.''
The first church they sold was in Long Beach, to a Korean congregation that paid $250,000. ''We became really good friends with the pastor,'' said Mrs. Raphael, who is tall, with long graying hair and fashionable ovoid glasses.
The Raphaels met in a square-dancing class at Long Beach State University in 1971 and married the next year. They were both raised Presbyterian, Mrs. Raphael in Marysville, a small town near Sacramento, and Mr. Raphael in Bellflower, in Southern California. They have two children -- a son who is a collegiate debate coach in Hawaii, and a daughter who is a public school teacher in Compton.
The church world in which the Raphaels were raised seems distant from the exurban sprawl of Azusa, filled with industrial parks and strip malls.
''Southern California, back in the 1950s, things were basically closed on Sundays,'' Mr. Raphael said. ''Maybe one gas station was open. Everybody went to church. Some of the congregations took it for granted you were there, and if you didn't show up, they knew you were sick. They sent somebody to find out if you were O.K.''
But a lot has changed, including preferences in church architecture. ''They don't want the traditional look anymore,'' Mrs. Raphael said. ''They're going for the industrial look.''
She said that because city ordinances require one parking spot for every three seats in the pews, parking is essential. In industrial spaces, ''you can often get permission to use parking from adjacent lots on Sundays,'' when the neighboring businesses do not require the spaces.
''Everyone wants something close to the freeway, with lots of parking and a lot of seating capacity,'' Mrs. Raphael said.
In Azusa now, the growth for them is in immigrant churches -- Asian and Latino, mainly. Churches serving African-American and white communities are closing.
''The younger people aren't coming,'' Mrs. Raphael said.
The Raphaels have six listings now, and while they say the market for church buildings has held up better than the residential market, times are still worse than they have ever seen.
In their first 31 years in the business, they say they never saw a church foreclosure. But in the last two years, they have worked with 10 churches on foreclosure issues.
''We're getting calls like, 'We can't pay our loans, we have to refinance.' And now you can't even get financing at all,'' Mr. Raphael said. ''It's always been hard, because for churches they want 30 or 40 percent down. But now even the Christian credit unions aren't lending.
''The members are out of work,'' he continued. ''They're not tithing, and the churches have gone through their reserves, and now they can't pay the mortgage.''
''Some churches had their buildings paid off,'' Mrs. Raphael interjected, ''but they needed money for programming, so they took out a mortgage, and now they can't pay it.''
''The pastors will ask me if I myself know of job openings for their members,'' Mr. Raphael said.
Across the country, 138 church properties were sold by banks last year, compared with just 24 in 2008, according to CoStar, a real estate information company. And according to LoopNet, a nationwide commercial property sales site, more than 140 church properties were for sale this week in five Southern California counties -- Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego -- and the Raphaels say 10 to 20 of them are financially distressed.
The Raphaels recently represented an African-American pastor who led a once-august church in Los Angeles.
''The piano in the basement had been signed by Ray Charles,'' who had been a member, Mr. Raphael said. ''But the neighborhood had changed -- it was Hispanic. The pastor said he'd knocked on doors to get people to come, but he couldn't speak the language. So he moved the church elsewhere.'' (The piano stayed behind.)
It can be a painful decision to sell a church, and the Raphaels often find themselves addressing church boards that struggle with the decision, even though they have to. ''They have so many memories,'' Mr. Raphael said. ''Their kids were married here.''
By law, the Raphaels cannot refuse to show a building to buyers because of their race or religion. But they have clients who try to ignore the law. They once found a buyer for a synagogue building, but the rabbi would not sell because the buyer wanted it for a mosque.
''Then you have the Christian groups that discriminate,'' Mrs. Raphael said, including one that would not sell to a Buddhist group.
They also had a group that did not want to deal with her because she is a woman. ''At first their agent said a woman shouldn't shake hands with them,'' Mrs. Raphael said.
''Then he called back and said, 'Don't get within 15 feet of them.' Then he called back and said, 'Stay in the car.'
''So Dave dealt with them.
''They didn't buy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dave and Mary Raphael, of Raphael Realty in Azusa, Calif., deal only with religious properties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The first church the Raphaels sold was in Long Beach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); ORDINANCES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); RETAILERS (68%); SUBURBS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1229 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, Businesses Plot Their Own Exit

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Habib Zohori contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- America may be struggling to come up with a viable exit plan for Afghanistan, but Abdul Wasay Manani is sure of his.
The broad-set Afghan butcher spent the past seven years trucking cattle in from the Pakistan border and building a thriving business for himself and his family, serving up some of the best hamburgers in Kabul for the embassies and expatriates and their barbecues.
But this month, Mr. Manani, 38, flew to India for 14 days to scout out a new business, and a new home, ready to leave Afghanistan and everything he worked to build here, just in case things fall apart when most Americans and other foreign troops leave in 2014. ''If the Taliban come like last time, ordering people around with whips, I can't stay here,'' he said. ''I have to leave this country to keep my family safe.''
Many Afghans share his concern. Interviews with business owners, analysts and economists paint a picture of extreme anxiety in both the domestic and international business communities here as the Afghan-United States relationship deteriorates and as the Western drawdown begins. 
In this environment, troubling indicators are not hard to find. More than 30,400 Afghans applied for asylum in industrialized nations in 2011, the highest level in 10 years and four times the number seeking asylum in 2005, according to provisional figures from the United Nations. Meanwhile, the number of displaced Afghans outside the country seeking to come the other way slowed to 68,000 last year, down from 110,000 in 2010 and a big decrease from the 1.8 million Afghans who repatriated in 2002, the year after the Taliban were driven out of power.
The only Western bank operating here said on Wednesday that it would be leaving. Piles of cash equaling about a quarter of Afghanistan's annual economic output were physically carried out of Afghanistan last year. Fewer foreign companies are seeking to do business here, and those already here are downsizing and putting off new investments. And there are businessmen like Mr. Manani who already have a foot out the door, working actively toward a Plan B for life and business outside Afghanistan.
Senior Afghan officials are acutely aware of it, and are alternately worried and angry. ''Sometimes I hear that some businessmen are fleeing and moving their businesses to outside Afghanistan,'' President Hamid Karzai said at a news conference this month. ''Curses be upon such businessmen that made tons of money here and now that the Americans are leaving they flee. They can leave right now. We don't need them.''
Given the importance of trying to bolster economic independence in the overall plan for Afghanistan, the skittish responses and decreasing investment and hiring strike right at hopes that this impoverished nation, still barely on the cusp of modernity, can thrive on its own.
Large companies are expressing worries about security. One of the most significant is Standard Chartered, the only big Western bank with a branch in the country, which said Wednesday that it was turning over its operations to a local Afghan bank and withdrawing mainly because of deteriorating conditions.
Mohammad Qurban Haqjo, chief executive of the Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said the head of one of the country's four big cellphone companies had told him that he planned to take his investments out of the country after 2014.
''It is still two years to go, but we are hearing from our businesses that everybody is raising this question,'' Mr. Haqjo said.
Even those who are trying to stay, foreign companies in particular, have become very conservative. According to the Afghanistan Investment Support Agency, capital spending by foreign companies newly registered in the past year, at $55 million, was the lowest rate in at least seven years, and about one-eighth the rate's peak in 2006.
According to Masuda Sultan, an Afghan-American businesswoman who grew up in Queens, the caution is expressing itself in businesses that are downsizing work forces, for example, or holding off on new investments.
''Among the people I know, there is planning going on in terms of investment decisions,'' she said. ''They are not packing up their bags just yet, but people are looking to diversify abroad or into other business sectors within Afghanistan.''
Some of the companies that are more heavily dependent on the military and the aid economy, like construction and logistics businesses, are trying to stay put by reconfiguring toward the few areas where analysts feel Afghanistan might have growth potential, like mining or trade.
But others are nervous that Afghanistan's nebulous private sector will not be enough to fill the gap left by the United States' military and development spending. World Bank figures back up those fears: the bank estimates that outside aid is equivalent to more than 90 percent of the country's total economic activity, and forecasts a slowdown in growth in the coming years to 5 or 6 percent from about 9 percent, or much lower if security worsens.
That is in part because, despite the billions in reconstruction and aid money poured into Afghanistan, there still is no major manufacturing or technology base that could be a driver of future prosperity. A new Pepsi bottling plant on the outskirts of Kabul is trumpeted as one of the few new investment triumphs.
''There is a sense that they have to change from a war economy to a postwar economy, and people definitely expect it to contract,'' said Thomas Rosenstock, a lawyer, originally from New York, who helps foreign companies entering the Afghan market. ''It's uncertain how dramatic the contraction would be.''
Then there are those who are voting with their cash.
Each week tens of millions of dollars -- some thought to be diverted American aid or drug money -- are packed into suitcases or boxes and loaded onto planes leaving Kabul International Airport for destinations like Dubai, capital flight that is increasing steadily ahead of the 2014 deadline, officials say.
Noorullah Delawari, the central bank governor, recently imposed restrictions limiting the amount a passenger can take out of the country to $20,000 a trip.
But the mountain of departing cash that is officially declared -- about $4.6 billion last year, the same size as the Afghan government's annual budget -- may be matched by money fleeing through other airports and over borders, or seeping out through the black market, an Afghan official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ''We really don't know how much is being moved,'' the official said.
Security officials are still struggling to ensure that people passing through the V.I.P. area of the Kabul airport put their bags through X-ray machines installed a few years ago in part to keep people from sneaking cash out, the official said.
For Mr. Manani, the butcher, and others like him who do not have huge amounts of capital as a safety blanket, the hopes that they can stay at home and still expand their businesses are being tempered by the need to ensure their families' safety.
His plan is rooted in an effort to start a second business in New Delhi with his local Sikh business partner there, he says. That would enable him to get a long-term visa, and so a way out for his wife and five children, as well as his parents, brothers and a sister and their children, all of whom depend on him and would have to move with him, he says.
''Every businessman is just thinking about how to move from here, about how to be safe,'' Mr. Manani said as he stood in front of a big cooler where sides of beef and lamb were hanging. Through the doorway into another room, four workers were busily cutting and packing.
He grew up in the north of Afghanistan and fought in the bitter civil war of the 1990s. There is no way he wants to relive that experience, he said.
''I don't have the energy to take the gun again and start fighting,'' he said. ''That's why I am looking for a way out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A money changer in Kabul, Afghanistan. Interviews paint a picture of extreme anxiety in the country's business communities. (A1)
Scaffolding at a Kabul shopping center where construction has been halted for months. Money for many projects has dried up. More photos: nytimes.com/world.
 Abdul Wasay Manani, a butcher in Kabul, is scouting out a new business in India in case things fall apart in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (88%); TALIBAN (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1230 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Want an Active Investment Manager? Here's What to Look For

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
IF there is one warning label that seems to have little effect, it is the one on the bottom of a securities prospectus: ''Past performance is no indication of future results.''
Yet investors regularly ask for a mutual fund's track record over one, three, five years or more before putting their money in. Sure, the fund may keep going up, and the past performance is an indicator. But what happens if the fund starts to drop? Should the investor sell, or hang on because the fund did well in the past?
A report released this week from Barclays Wealth and Investment Management, ''The Science and Art of Manager Selection,'' aims to lay out the risks of trying to read past performance into future returns when selecting active managers -- as opposed to passive management of your money through index and exchange-traded funds.
Investors are asking the wrong question when they argue whether active or index funds are better, said Aaron Gurwitz, chief investment officer at Barclays and one of the authors of the report. ''The question is, Can you identify managers who are going to perform well in the future?'' he said. ''If you can't, you should be in an index fund. If you can, then you should select managers the way we do.'' 
The report highlights a basic problem in investing -- that the obsession with recent returns hurts long-term performance. Psychologists and behavioral economists call the phenomenon the recency bias, and it is not confined to investing.
''We're like pattern-finding machines,'' said Terrance Odean, professor of finance at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. ''If lightning strikes and something falls off the table, we think the lightning caused it. Or worse, the book falls and lightning strikes and you think the book caused it.''
But searching for patterns does not add up to a good investing policy. ''The investor who is in the market and is constantly seeing patterns better have a good day job,'' Mr. Odean said.
In a paper in 2008, ''All That Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors,'' Mr. Odean and a co-author, Brad M. Barber, a finance professor at the Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Davis, found that individual investors were more likely to buy a stock if they saw something about it in the news or if it had a high one-day return. The two professors attributed this to how difficult it was to do detailed analysis on thousands of stocks before buying one.
But how can investors be broken of their habit? The Barclays paper advocates a mix of what its authors call the art and science of picking active managers.
The art refers to the idea that the ability of most mutual fund and hedge fund managers to outperform their indexes peaks and then declines as more money comes into the funds. (Private equity managers have better luck because they are essentially repeating the same strategy with different companies.)
David Romhilt, the head of manager research and selection at Barclays and the lead author of the report, said active managers went through four phases: start-up, growth, maturity and decline. He sought to identify those managers in the second phase, growth, because that is when they have had enough success with their strategy but not so much success that money has poured in and changed how they invest.
One example of this life cycle is Bill Miller, the chairman and chief investment officer of Legg Mason Capital Management. He outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index from 1991 to 2005 with his Value Trust fund. Then, for five of the next six years he either underperformed or significantly underperformed the benchmark.
The Barclays report does not address individual managers, but its authors say the decline should not be shocking. As assets grow, managers have to take enormous stakes in single companies or diversify into too many different securities. The fund loses the nimbleness it once had.
Of course, there are mitigating factors. The study found that employee-owned firms where managers have a large portion of their wealth tied up in the funds have a better chance of avoiding the bloat that leads other funds to focus on increasing assets rather than managing money.
''When you talk about the manager and the nature of a fund, it goes a long way to humanizing the manager,'' Mr. Gurwitz said. ''It helps investors realize these are sociological organizations, not long lists of numbers.''
As for the science of evaluating managers, Mr. Romhilt said his team looked at four criteria: investment process (which counts for half the weight), organizational structure (25 percent), past returns (25 percent) and due diligence, which a manager either passes or fails.
''A performance track record is not a leading indicator,'' Mr. Romhilt said. ''We intentionally try to raise our guard if the performance is so good. The managers should have an investment process or an institutional structure that is better than we normally see.''
In 2007, he said, he looked at an international growth fund that was in the top 1 percent and attracting interest from many of the firm's clients. He said the manager had 80 percent of the fund in cyclical commodity stocks, but Mr. Romhilt was more curious to hear about the investment process.
''I went into this meeting thinking I would get an incredibly deep thesis on world commodity markets and I was expecting to be blown away,'' he said. ''That was wholly not the case with this manager. He had very well-known, supply-and-demand, emerging-markets' consumption stories. It wasn't anything that someone with access to the Internet couldn't have put together.''
Mr. Romhilt concluded that the strategy was simply market timing. And it turned out he was right. While the fund had been successful on the way up, it got the timing wrong on the way down when demand for many of the commodities it was invested in dried up in 2008.
The other side of the recency bias is knowing when to exit, even if the returns have been good for years. Mr. Romhilt said he regularly reviewed managers with one big question in mind: Would he pick them again today? He said he could tolerate short-term losses as long as the fundamental strategy had not changed. But when there are signs like a rapid increase in assets, excessive concentration in one company, high turnover or a change in investment style, he said, those should signal the investor to stop putting in more money or exit immediately.
This conversation is not always an easy one, since just as investors have a tendency to get into something at its peak, they are loath to sell while an investment is still doing well.
But the authors of the Barclays report make their point with everyone's favorite measure: returns. Mr. Romhilt said that their way of selecting active managers increased returns by 3 percentage points over the relevant benchmarks before fees and 1 to 2 percentage points after fees.
''That's how we're trying to be accountable in the process,'' he said. ''That doesn't mean all our clients got 3 percent. They don't all listen to us, or they apply different strategies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aaron Gurwitz, left, and David Romhilt of Barclays Wealth and Investment Management say there is a method to choosing a money manager. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCT LABELING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WRITERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (85%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1231 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Cuomo Budgets His Way

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York and state legislators are celebrating the completion of a new state budget -- on time, for a second year in a row. This budget increases much-needed funds for schools and relieves local governments of increases in Medicaid costs, saving New York City alone more than $1 billion in the next five years. Public transit in the city did O.K., as did upstate residents who will get some help with roads and bridges. 
While Mr. Cuomo is congratulating himself for turning Albany from ''a model of dysfunction'' into ''a model of function,'' no one should forget what he gave away to win legislators' compliance: Mr. Cuomo broke a campaign promise and approved gerrymandered election districts for the next 10 years. That is bad news for New York's voters and real democratic competition.
That is not the only thing to worry about. This budget also concentrates a lot more power -- too much -- in the governor's office.
New York's comptroller will now be blocked from pre-auditing contracts for goods by the administration's central purchasing operation. Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli's office estimates that there will be about $5 billion in purchasing contracts that will not get the benefit of scrutiny before the administration signs on the dotted line. And the governor's administrators will now be able to shift funds for about $3 billion worth of call centers, technology and other office services from one agency to another without legislative say-so.
Mr. Cuomo will also have a lot more cash to spread around as he likes. For years, legislative leaders gave out money for softball fields or senior centers to favored lawmakers, who then handed out the funds in their districts. The ''member item'' system was riddled with abuse. Instead of financing such projects the right way -- through the normal budgetary process -- the new budget maintains pots of cash for development and economic projects, but the requests will now have to go through the governor's regional economic councils.
Lawmakers have also created a new commission to oversee gambling -- the lottery, racetracks and racinos, Indian-run casinos, slot machines, even bingo and other charitable gambling. Guess who gets to pick a majority of its new members.
Governor Cuomo is a good governor. But even the best executive needs checks and balances. There are too few in this new system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAMING (84%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); SOFTBALL (69%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1232 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: After First-Quarter Rally, Prospect of a Slip Looms

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
Stocks shot out of the gate in 2012 to post their best first quarter in 14 years, but a familiar anxiety is creeping back into the markets.
The surge was fueled by a stream of good data about the United States economy, including the unemployment rate ticking down to 8.3 percent and consumer spending rising for three straight months. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank's program for cheap, three-year loans for banks appeared to have taken the threat of a European collapse off the table.
Those factors helped push the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 3.3 percent for March and 12 percent for the quarter, the best result since 1998. The index closed Friday at 1408.47, rising 5.19 points, or 0.37 percent. It is now trading at levels last seen in May 2008. 
Nine out of 10 S.& P. sectors saw gains in the quarter, with utilities dropping about 3 percent and financial and information technology stocks up the most, each about 21 percent. Bank of America had one of the strongest returns, up 72 percent for the January-through-March period, while the Apollo Group, the for-profit college company, had one of the worst, down 28 percent.
But the widespread optimism that began the year is fading to some degree. The data pointing to the economic recovery is leveling off, showing weaker manufacturing activity and stagnant personal income.
The S.& P. 500 fell during 6 of the last 10 trading days in March. April has traditionally been the best month for blue-chip stocks, and among the best for other public companies. But over the last two years, April has also been the time when early-year rallies gave way to big summer drops. Even investors and strategists who do not expect a big pullback think that at least a short-term decline is in the cards.
''We're stuck with a worry that we're headed for more weakening,'' said Quincy Krosby, the chief market strategist at Prudential Financial. ''It's not as if this is a worry-free move into April.''
Overseas, the outlook has darkened. This week data from China showed industrial profits were down and manufacturing growth was slowing. In Europe, many countries are showing the drag of government budget cuts. Even the economic engine of the Continent, Germany, recently announced that its manufacturing sector was contracting, and its retail sales unexpectedly slipped 1.1 percent in February.
After rising even more sharply than United States markets the first two months of the year, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of European blue chips, was down 1.4 percent in March. Emerging market indexes were down even more sharply.
The biggest threat that most investors see is a return of euro zone debt problems. While the European Central Bank's lending program gave investors renewed confidence, yields on Spanish bonds have been climbing, signaling that investors are growing more nervous. The interest rates on Spanish 10-year bonds rose in March to 5.3 percent, from 4.9 percent.
In contrast to the situation in Greece, most investors do not think the central bank has the resources to help Spain avert default if its economic problems worsen. Spain is the only one of Europe's major economies to see its stock market drop this year, with the IBEX 35 index falling 6.5 percent so far.
''The European Central Bank has not done enough to quell all fears of debt issues in Spain and Italy, and realistically it can't,'' said Michael Gapen, senior economist at Barclays Capital.
In the United States, the sectors of the economy that have shown signs of slowing in recent weeks have been those with a global connection. Shares in energy companies were down 3.4 percent in March, according to S.& P. Capital IQ analytics.
The domestic economy still appears to be growing, if at a slightly slower pace. Forecasts for economic growth this year have remained around 2.2 percent.
Even if the economy does hit a soft spot, many investors expect the Federal Reserve to step in with another bond-buying program that would provide monetary stimulus.
''Whenever the economy wobbles, Bernanke comes out and makes a speech, and everything is all well in the world,'' said Alec Young, the chief global equity strategist at S.& P. Capital IQ, referring to Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Some analysts have grown bearish because they do not think the Fed will be able to step in again when the current program of monetary stimulus, known as Operation Twist, runs out in June.
Doug Kass, a general partner at Seabreeze Partners, began the year in a bullish frame of mind, he said. But he has recently dialed back his expectations for the year, and he said he expected the S.& P. 500 to finish the year down from where it is now.
Mr. Kass and other analysts said a catalyst for a decline in stock prices would probably come from gloomy corporate announcements, starting in early April, about first-quarter corporate earnings.
''It's going to be squishy earnings that knocks this off,'' Mr. Kass said.
Of the 112 companies that have provided forecasts for the first quarter of 2012, 68 of them are projecting lower earnings than what analysts are expecting, while 35 are doing better than expectations and nine are in line, according to S.& P. Capital IQ data.
The data company FactSet is expecting overall corporate earnings to decline for the first time since 2009.
''Given that the markets had a strong rally, you are hard-pressed to see how earnings season would be a positive for stocks,'' said Barry C. Knapp, head of United States equity portfolio strategy at Barclays. ''Estimates have come down, so the hurdle for beating numbers in the first quarter are pretty low. The question is whether they focus on guidance.''
On Friday, the yield on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 15/32, to 98 4/32, and the yield rose to 2.21 percent from 2.16 percent late Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 66.22 points, or 0.5 percent, to 13,212.04. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 3.79 points, or 0.1 percent, to 3091.57.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Forecasts for growth this year remain about 2.2 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (73%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); APOLLO GROUP INC (55%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); APOL (NASDAQ) (55%); PRU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1233 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Increase In Optimism Follows Rise In Spending

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer spending increased by the most in seven months in February as households shook off a steady rise in gasoline prices, the Commerce Department said Friday, leading economists to raise forecasts for growth in the first quarter. 
The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose 0.8 percent in February as demand for long-lasting goods like automobiles rose sharply. It also said spending in January was double the previously reported 0.2 percent gain.
Separately, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index rose to 76.2, the highest level since February 2011, from 75.3 in February. Even with gasoline at about $4 a gallon, Americans were more optimistic about the economy's prospects in March than at any other time over the last year. ''Fears that the economy was going to slow substantially this quarter were overdone. The economy is doing fairly well, given the headwinds from Europe, rising gasoline prices,'' said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa.
With confidence holding up, consumer spending should remain supported in the first half of the year and soften the impact of cooling factory activity on the economy, analysts said.
When adjusted for inflation, spending increased 0.5 percent, the largest gain since September.
That prompted several economists, including those at Goldman Sachs, to raise their first-quarter forecasts for gross domestic product. Goldman Sachs now expects G.D.P. to rise at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, up from expectations for a 2 percent increase.
The economy expanded at a 3 percent rate in the final three months of 2011 as businesses restocked their inventories, but the inventory buildup has most likely run its course and is not expected to help this quarter.
The growth in factory activity in the Midwest slowed in March, another report showed on Friday, with employment and new orders pulling back from recent lofty levels.
That report, the business barometer from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago, slipped to 62.2, from 64.0 in February. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy.
The increase in consumer spending last month suggested that households were taking surging gasoline prices in stride. Prices at the pump averaged $3.97 a gallon in the week to Monday and have risen 62 cents since the start of the year.
Economists said the high cost of gasoline was being mitigated by falling natural gas prices, which have been depressed by abnormally warm weather that has curbed demand.
A 0.2 percent rise in income helped cover some of the increase in spending last month, but consumers also saved less. The saving rate, the amount of disposable income that was put away, dropped to 3.7 percent, the lowest rate since August 2009.
Disposable income, the amount left after taxes and inflation, declined for a second straight month, a trend that could eventually slow spending.
''While households want to spend and will raid their bank accounts to support that habit, unless income gains start improving, consumption will have to slow,'' said Joel L. Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.
 Personal Income and Spending (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GASOLINE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1234 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Baby Boomers Lose Optimism

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
The last five years have been tough on Americans' financial confidence, particularly among baby boomers thought of as upbeat and affluent, a new survey has found.
Roughly half of people born from 1946 to 1964, known as baby boomers, say they are optimistic about the country's financial future, down from about two-thirds in 2007, a survey from the financial services firm Ameriprise found. And just 17 percent say they are ''very optimistic'' about their personal financial future, down from 39 percent five years ago. 
Ameriprise commissioned the research company GfK to do the survey, which was conducted by telephone in December and included 1,006 affluent people born in the 18-year period, as well as 300 parents and 300 adult children of the group. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points, and 6 percentage points for the survey of the boomers' parents and children.
The first version of the survey was done in the spring of 2007, when, Ameriprise noted, the unemployment rate was 4.5 percent. It was 8.5 percent in December, when the latest survey was conducted.
The group born from 1946 to 1964 reported significant drops in their confidence in a number of areas, including their ability to assure a secure future for themselves and their family, to continue their current lifestyle in retirement, to help their children or grandchildren pay for college and to support a charity that's important to them.
Their children also indicated that they were less confident about their financial future. A quarter, for instance, said they were very confident that they can help their children pay for their education, down from almost half five years ago.
How has your view of your financial future changed over the past five years?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (57%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1235 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Competitors on the Court, But Economic Teammates

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
LEXINGTON, Ky. -- The rivalry between Kentucky's two best college basketball teams, which will face off in the N.C.A.A. semifinals on Saturday night, is nothing short of a state civil war. Team flags are flying from car windows, mayors have wagered, and a brawl between two fans, one of them hooked up to a dialysis machine, had to be stopped by the police.
But behind the competition on the court, there is a new collaboration in the economy. The mayors of the teams' cities -- Jim Gray in Lexington and Greg Fischer in Louisville -- are using their positions to persuade their cities, long at odds, to cooperate. 
The effort came from a conversation the mayors had at a basketball game shortly after they were elected in 2010: How do you compete in an age of adapt-or-die economics, when China and India are far bigger threats than the neighboring county?
The answer, they say, is to join forces and become a kind of super-region that will draw talented people from around the world and will be able to hold its own in a competitive global marketplace. It is a particularly urgent task now for local leaders, when the federal government is mired in political deadlock and state governments are broke.
''We need to collaborate domestically to compete globally,'' said Amy Liu, co-director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution, which is helping to guide the effort in Kentucky. ''U.S. cities are competing against rapidly rising markets in Asia, South America and parts of Eastern Europe. They cannot afford to compete against each other.''
Successful economies are increasingly regional, Ms. Liu said. They grow by clustering around universities, companies and skilled people who invent things.
The mayors want to start that sprouting process in the Lexington-Louisville region. They want to create a new brain hub (think Silicon Valley in California and the Research Triangle in North Carolina) whose focus would be inventing and making things in high-tech manufacturing plants.
''Lexington and Louisville had always been fighting, but we've got to get beyond that,'' Mr. Fischer said in an interview. ''The way to get more pie is to make more pie, not to fight over the slice that's in front of us.''
Mr. Fischer, 54, and Mr. Gray, 58, come from backgrounds that seem to have prepared them for the challenge. Both are businessmen from families of F.D.R. Democrats. Both grew family businesses beyond the borders of the United States -- Mr. Fischer by inventing an ice and beverage dispenser and Mr. Gray by building specialty factories for foreign manufacturers in the United States.
President Obama has emphasized high-tech manufacturing as a potential engine for growth in the economy, but some economists argue that the focus is misplaced. Manufacturing has been shrinking as a share of the economy for years, and the economists say that is something best done in cheaper labor markets.
''Even if we do manage to do great things in terms of high-tech manufacturing, that's unlikely to lead to high levels of jobs for Americans in the middle of skill distribution,'' said Edward Glaeser, an economist at Harvard and the author of ''Triumph of the City.'' ''That's the enormous challenge that we face in this country.''
The aim may be ambitious, the mayors say, but it is not such a stretch, considering the large ecosystem of production that is already here -- Toyota's North American headquarters, Raytheon, two Ford plants and a General Electric manufacturing plant. The cities are roughly 80 miles apart, and the region, around 20 northern Kentucky counties, produces nearly half of the total economic output of the state's 120 counties.
Still, the region has lagged in research and development and has a long way to go before becoming a hub of innovation, which is at the heart of the most successful American cities, said Kenneth Troske, a professor of economics at the University of Kentucky in Lexington.
The key is education, Professor Troske said, an area in which the state has lagged badly. These northern metro areas, with their big universities, have high levels of education, but they are islands in a state that ranks 47th in terms of share of adults with a college degree.
This is important because the work force will come from the rest of the state.
''In education, we're flat and at the bottom,'' he said. ''That has to be front and center moving forward, whatever industry we want to attract. We have to have a large majority of our kids getting some kind of post-secondary degree.''
The mayors acknowledge that and say it will take a concerted effort by local government, business leaders, universities and civic organizations to accomplish it. That is what the project, which they call the Bluegrass Economic Advancement Movement, is designed to do.
''Government is a good convener,'' Mr. Fischer said. ''It can bring people together and let the market solve the problem.''
Mr. Gray points to Germany as a model, where college students work on factory floors as well as study at technical colleges in a deliberate state policy to develop a skilled work force. Such collaboration already exists between Toyota and a local community college here, Mr. Gray said, but it needs to expand to smaller companies.
''This is so much more meaningful than just recruiting the next Toyota,'' Mr. Gray said. ''Toyota is the holy grail, and we've got it. It's how you leverage it.''
The project is still in early stages. Researchers are analyzing the region's economy and making a master map of its features.
But Mr. Gray said the economy is ripe for change. Argonne, the Energy Department laboratory that contributed technology to the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, is opening a battery research and development center in Lexington this year in a partnership with the two universities.
''Anyone who waits for the phone to ring and someone to bring them a bunch of jobs, well that model doesn't work anymore,'' Mr. Gray said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The mayors of Lexington, Jim Gray, left, and Louisville, Ky., Greg Fischer, have decided that it's best to cooperate to attract jobs.
 The University of Kentucky and the University of Louisville are playing each other in the Final Four on Saturday, and emotions are high. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); DIALYSIS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (95%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1236 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Health Law At Risk Gives Insurers Pause

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
As the Supreme Court considers the constitutionality of the federal health care law, one option that had seemed unthinkable to its designers and supporters now seems at least possible: that the court could strike down the entire law.
Although it would be folly to predict what the court will conclude, policy experts, insurers, doctors and legislators are now seriously contemplating the repercussions of a complete change in course two years after the nation began to put the law into place.
Their concerns were heightened after three days of court arguments in which some justices expressed skepticism about whether the full law could stand without the individual mandate requiring almost everyone to have insurance.
''Many of us did not get the bill we wanted, but I think having to start over is worse than having to fix this,'' said Robert Laszewski, a health care industry consultant and former insurance executive who opposed the bill. 
Others say, however, the last two years have made it easier for Congress or the states to revisit the issue. The effort was not a waste of time, said Christine Pollack, vice president of government affairs at the Retail Industry Leaders Association, a trade group that represents large retailers and opposed the law. ''There has been an important dialogue that has happened over the last three and a half years that has been a long time coming,'' she said.
The most ambitious provisions would be nearly impossible to salvage, like the requirement that insurers offer coverage even to those with existing medical conditions and the broad expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor. Popular pieces of the legislation might survive in the market, like insuring adult children up to age 26 through their parents' policies, along with some of the broader changes being made in the health care system in how hospitals and doctors deliver care.
Abandoning the efforts and billions of dollars invested since the law was passed in 2010 would result in turmoil for hospitals, doctors, patients and insurers.
Many insurers would have difficulty changing course. ''The risk of repeal and starting from zero frightens them infinitely more'' than having to comply with the law as written, said Michael A. Turpin, a former insurance executive who is now a senior executive at USI Insurance Services, a broker.
Maryland's health secretary, Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, said he was worried about the 50,000 people nationwide who are enrolled in a federally financed insurance program because they are seriously ill and cannot find coverage otherwise. If the entire law is thrown out, those people ''don't have other options,'' he said.
Numerous provisions in the law have already gone into effect, like steps aimed at closing the coverage gap in Medicare drug plans and some of the regulations governing the profits of health insurers. The federal government has also spent about three-quarters of a billion dollars helping states set up new exchanges for people to buy coverage in 2014 when the full law goes into effect.
''The part I struggle with is how you undo two years worth of implementation,'' said Dr. Glen R. Stream, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. ''It would leave tremendous uncertainty about what is the direction we're going in and that uncertainty would obviously affect the patients directly.''
Health insurance companies, which would be freed from some of the already existing regulations limiting their profits, would have to readjust their thinking about how best to compete. While companies would continue to make money by carefully selecting which customers to cover and would adjust their business accordingly, many insurers say the health care market is deeply flawed. ''The system doesn't work,'' said Mark T. Bertolini, the chief executive of Aetna. ''Something has to be done.''
The law, ''while imperfect in a number of ways, was a step forward,'' Mr. Bertolini said.
If the law is overturned, some said Congress and the states could act to restore some of the lesser-known provisions. For example, the law reauthorized the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which finances tribal health programs, allowed the Food and Drug Administration to approve generic versions of the complex and often expensive drugs known as biologics and imposed a 10 percent tax on tanning salons -- all relatively minor provisions that could be accomplished through legislation.
But others were more pessimistic, noting that Congress is so mired in election-year politics that even such seemingly benign measures could be blocked.
And there is little hope that Congress could devise an alternative to the law anytime soon. ''If this law is completely thrown out, a lot of momentum to solve some of these problems is going to be vitiated,'' said Helen Darling, the chief executive of the National Business Group on Health, which represents employers that offer health benefits.
How much the states could continue on their own is unclear. ''In this political environment, it's going to be exceedingly difficult,'' said Mike Kreidler, the insurance commissioner for Washington State, who supports the law.
Some states like California and Maryland have made progress in creating the exchanges, where people will be able to more easily shop for policies. But many questioned whether most states would be able to proceed without federal funding.
''There might be some states that will go forward, but it will be a crazy-quilt pattern,'' said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a consumer group that supported the health care law. (He is no relation to Ms. Pollack, the retail association official.)
Both insurers and employers predicted that most insurance companies would continue popular policies that were enacted under the law. Insurers have already factored in the costs of allowing adults under 26 to be covered on their parents' plans and eliminating co-payments on preventive services, and companies are also unlikely to reimpose lifetime limits on coverage. ''It's more trouble to roll it back,'' said Mr. Laszewski, the health care consultant. ''It's part of the market now.''
Other provisions in the law tried to experiment with changes to how doctors and hospitals are paid, moving away from the current system in which they make more by performing more tests and procedures to rewarding them more for delivering better care that saves money by keeping patients out of the hospital and emergency room.
But much of the ability of hospitals to change how they care for patients, even as government programs like Medicare and Medicaid pay them less, was dependent on the tens of millions of new paying customers, said Len M. Nichols, a health economist at George Mason University who supports the law. ''Everybody thought it would buy them time to become as efficient as they need to be,'' he said.
Still many hospital executives and insurers say big changes in how care is being delivered will continue regardless of the law. ''It's been our experience and observation that the health care system has been undergoing reform for some time before this debate and this bill of 2010,'' said Richard J. Umbdenstock, head of the American Hospital Association. ''We're already making dramatic course changes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. D'arcy Johnson and Dr. Glen R. Stream at Rockwood Clinic Urgent Care in Spokane, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAJAH BOSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RETAILERS (66%)

COMPANY: USI INSURANCE SERVICES CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1237 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Pressed on All Sides, Coup Leader in Mali Is Digging In

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- The motorcade bristles with guns, just for him. Freshly minted buttons with his photograph are pinned to his officers. The new Constitution makes him supreme boss and wipes out Parliament. The harassment and imprisonment of the opposition are under way.
One week after a military coup ended two decades of democracy here, the coup leader's apparatus already seems entrenched.
On the surface, life in the bustling West African capital appears almost normal, down to the fruit sellers by the roadsides and the battered motorcycles weaving through traffic under a desert sun. The coup has even inspired xenophobic demonstrators to support it with such vigor that they blocked the airport runway and forced a plane of West African presidents -- who had come to press for a restoration of democracy -- to turn back before it could land.
In one week, Mali has gone from a democratic exemplar to a regional bad-boy under military rule. 
Yet nothing is settled. The coup leader, Amadou Haya Sanogo, a 39-year-old American-trained captain who makes rambling declarations on state television promising elections and human rights, is squeezed on multiple fronts.
Outside powers are demanding that he give up and are tightening the purse strings. His undisciplined soldiers have pillaged government ministries, making it hard for civil servants to get back to work. And after the coup's leaders claimed the government had to be overthrown because it was too incompetent to suppress a rebellion in the north, the rebels have only gained ground since Captain Sanogo seized power, forcing him to tell reporters on Friday that he needed help from ''Mali's friends.''
He does not seem to have many. Some aid has already been cut by the United States and the European Union. And the unusually prompt and firm response of West African leaders, who have demanded that Captain Sanogo restore the country's democratic order within 72 hours or face a closing of the landlocked country's borders and a freezing of its account at the regional central bank, is shaping up as a test case for whether the region can stamp out what had been its longtime curse: the military coup d'etat.
In Bamako, thousands of pro-military marchers crowded the streets on Wednesday to denounce ''the international community'' and the president who was thrown out last week, Amadou Toumani Toure. On Thursday, rock-throwing coup supporters assaulted the anti-coup headquarters downtown, the Labor Exchange, chasing out hundreds of opponents of Captain Sanogo.
The opposition, yelling in unison an Arab Spring-inspired slogan, ''degage!'' or ''give it up!'' aimed at Captain Sanogo, had gathered in a courtyard when the assault began and the rocks started flying. Young men on the opposition side broke up chunks of concrete to hurl, and there were ripostes from the coup supporters. The captain's men got the best of it. Opposition leaders -- nearly all the country's dozens of political parties are making common cause against the coup -- said later that a number of their supporters had been wounded in the assault, and then arrested by the police.
Coup opponents see two decades of democratic gains in Mali, acquired after bloody antimilitary riots in 1991 brought down the last dictator, slipping away. They share some of the coup supporters' criticisms of the deposed president, who was widely regarded as weak and corrupt. He is now in hiding. But they are furious that Captain Sanogo chased him from the presidential palace a mere month before the election to choose a new president.
''What he's done there, Mali is shamed because of it,'' said Haua Konate, 32, an unemployed nurse at Thursday's anticoup demonstration at the Labor Exchange. ''He's trampled on our democracy. He's put us 20 years behind.''
A mile away, the new government complex built for Mali by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the former Libyan leader, lay in shambles, assaulted and looted by Captain Sanogo's soldiers last week. Nearly every door at the Ministry of Culture had been bashed and forced open, and all the computers and refrigerators seized. Safes with cash and valuables had been blasted open by gunfire. Spent shells littered one office that contained a safe -- even though a main complaint of the coup leaders was President Toure's failure to properly arm and equip Mali's soldiers against the northern rebels.
Civil servants were sitting around their plundered offices, disoriented and unable to work.
''They took $50,000 here,'' said the Culture Ministry's financial officer, Abdramane Dembele, pointing at the battered safe. ''The state is on its knees. We have no idea how we are going to work.''
The same rage the marauding soldiers showed against Mr. Toure's government was on the lips of coup supporters downtown. Though praised by outsiders for its free elections, the country remains one of the world's poorest, near the bottom on the United Nations Human Development Index, with most people living on less than $2 a day. As they marched past the Labor Exchange on Wednesday, the pro-coup demonstrators shook their fists and yelled ''Down with A.T.T.!'' using Mr. Toure's initials.
''All the political leaders are against the coup d'etat because they are all corrupt,'' said Souleymane Traore, a merchant. ''A.T.T. can go to hell! He's lied too much. Anyway, was he really going to organize elections?''
Inside the Labor Exchange about 60 Parliament members, barred from using the National Assembly building by the soldiers, met in a rump session.
The coup leaders ''seem to want to install themselves for the duration,'' said Younoussi Toure, first vice president of the National Assembly. ''But the Malian people are fighting, and will never give up the fight for a return to legality.''
In the northern desert, the rebellion by nomadic Tuareg tribesmen seeking independence pushes ever farther south, nearly unhindered since last week's coup left the Malian Army in disarray. On Thursday, the rebels entered a strategic town, Kidal, and Captain Sanogo himself called the situation ''critical'' on Friday.
Late Wednesday, Mr. Toure, the deposed president, spoke out from hiding for the first time. He suggested on French radio that he had ordered his own guard not to defend him during last week's coup, amplifying fears that the president, a former general, had proved too weak to confront the northern rebels, the affiliate of Al Qaeda in the region, or his own mutinous soldiers. ''I would never want Malian soldiers firing on other Malian soldiers,'' he said.
Outside Bamako, in Kati, where Captain Sanogo has his headquarters, the country's new leader strode briskly down the steps of the colonial building that serves as the coup's nerve center. Stern-faced special guards wearing blue uniforms and sunglasses, even in twilight, pushed reporters and bystanders aside.
They are protecting the self-proclaimed head of the National Committee for the Re-establishment of Democracy and the Restoration of the State, as the junta calls itself. The captain did not address the reporters and quickly entered his motorcade.
Back at the Labor Exchange, the citizens who had gathered said the country's democracy was hanging in the balance.
''We're scared now,'' said Fatah Ouattara, 32, an airline company agent. ''Twenty-five years ago, people fought against this. He's saying, 'It's to restore democracy.' But it's not. It's to restore a dictatorship.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of the military coup in Mali demonstrated at the airport in Bamako on Thursday, forcing a plane of West African presidents to turn back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUC GNAGO/REUTERS) (A4)
 Supporters and opponents of the military coup clashed on Thursday in the streets of Bamako, the capital of Mali. The opponents see two decades of democratic gains slipping away. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A9) MAPS: Since the coup, nomadic rebels have made gains in places like Kidal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1238 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Why One Gas Is Cheap and One Isn't

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE price of gas has risen rapidly this year.
The price of gas has fallen to the lowest level in a decade.
Both of those statements are true. The first refers to gasoline, the second to natural gas.
As the accompanying charts indicate, never in the two decades that natural gas and oil futures have traded have their prices diverged as much as they have now. On an energy equivalent basis, oil costs more than eight times as much as natural gas.
This week, the price of a million B.T.U.'s of natural gas fell below $2.20 for the first time since 2002, while oil prices slipped a little but remained above $100 a barrel. The last time natural gas was this inexpensive, oil cost about $20 a barrel. 
The diverging prices reflect the fact that while oil and natural gas can substitute for each other in some uses, the markets for the two products are very different.
Crude oil is a relatively efficient international market, in which the product moves around the globe in tankers that can be diverted from one destination to another almost instantaneously in response to shifts in demand. A sharp change in demand or supply in any region of the globe is likely to show up in prices everywhere.
Oil prices can also be affected by geopolitical concerns well before actual events take place. These days, it appears that oil prices have been pushed up by worries that Israel might attack Iran, leading to a drastic reduction in Iranian oil exports.
The natural gas market, on the other hand, is not a global one. There is a limited trade in liquefied natural gas, which can be transported in tankers, but mostly natural gas must move in pipelines over land. Natural gas prices have been rising in Britain this year even as they have been falling in the United States.
Supply has soared in the United States because of increased production from hydraulic fracturing, but demand cannot change rapidly. Power plants that can burn natural gas or oil were shifted to gas long ago. Add in a relatively mild winter in the United States, which reduced demand, and there appears to have been a glut.
There are efforts being made to use more natural gas. Some fleet vehicles, like buses, already use natural gas, but that market is limited to vehicles that can return to their headquarters for refilling. Chrysler has announced a pickup truck that will run on both gasoline and natural gas, but plans to offer it only to such fleets.
The state of Alaska is also seeking a pipeline that would take natural gas from the North Slope to an Alaskan port, where it could be liquefied and shipped to Asia. The state announced an agreement with Exxon Mobil, BP and ConocoPhillips relating to that project on Friday, but many details remain to be worked out.
Two of the charts show trends in prices of gasoline and natural gas since the end of 2007, when the United States entered recession. At first, reduced economic activity led to reductions in the prices of both products. But the trends began to diverge in 2009. Now, gasoline costs about 30 percent more than it did in 2007, while natural gas costs around 70 percent less.
For what it is worth, which may not be very much, futures traders think that the gap in prices will diminish but remain large. A year from now, oil prices are expected to be almost exactly where they are now, while natural gas prices are forecast to have risen more than 50 percent. If that happens, on an energy equivalent basis, crude oil will still be more than five times as expensive as natural gas.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Gas Costs More, or Less? Are gas prices soaring, or collapsing? Both. It depends which gas you are talking about. Gasoline prices are up sharply this year, largely because of worries over the Mideast. But natural gas prices in the United States, which already were low, have fallen to their lowest levels in a decade, largely because of increased supply. The charts show the trends in prices of gasoline and natural gas since the end of 2007, as the United States was entering a recession, and the relative prices of crude oil and natural gas since 1990. (Sources: Bloomberg (futures prices), MasterCard SpendingPulse (gasoline prices)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FUTURES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1239 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: When 'for Richer, for Poorer' Is Put to the Test

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Chronic unemployment is putting many couples' marital vows to the test -- particularly the part that refers to ''for richer, for poorer.''
With far less money coming in each month, many families have been forced to cut back, borrow money from family and friends and maybe even drain their savings. Millions, too, have lost their homes to foreclosure. And then there is the toll that joblessness is taking on their relationships.
Even Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, expressed concern earlier this week for the ranks of the long-term unemployed, or those out of work for six months or more. Not only do their bank accounts suffer, he noted, but so do their future earnings potential, their health and the prospects for their children. So it's not surprising that several marital therapists report that more couples are filing into their offices -- when they can afford to -- to try to work through their problems.
Maggie Baker, a psychologist in the Philadelphia area who focuses on money issues, said the husband in a couple she recently met with had been unemployed for more than a year. And while his wife was initially supportive, she had started to feel the burden of supporting the family on her own. 
''She is watching her husband shrivel and feel ashamed and humiliated, yet unable to do anything because he's lost his motivation,'' Dr. Baker said. ''When it goes on seemingly forever, that is when people begin to wear. Then it feels like a permanent change, and a permanent change to the negative, and people react very strongly to that.''
In situations like these, certain patterns often emerge. The unemployed partner begins to feel discouraged and withdraws, no longer sharing what he or she is doing to find work. And, eventually, that makes the working partner feel as if the spouse isn't doing enough. Communication breaks down, and resentments build -- at the very moment they need to hold each other up.
''When anybody is tired or under stress, they will always revert to their oldest primitive survival mode, which is usually dysfunctional,'' said Olivia Mellan, a money coach, author and therapist. Even couples with similar philosophies about money, she said, will find something to disagree about in this situation.
While money -- and how much time you should spend earning it, or how you prioritize spending it -- has been a perennial source of marital spats, there are several strategies and exercises that can help people cope through tougher times, both financially and emotionally. Several are highlighted below.
TAKE CONTROL One way to deal with the trauma or longevity of joblessness is to try to replace your fears with a sense of increased control and confidence, a method practiced by Judy Haselton, a financial planner in New York who has been trained at the Sudden Money Institute, which helps people deal with big changes in their financial situations.
The first step is to simply acknowledge to one another that you're both under stress. Next, you should both identify your fears and make a list of immediate financial threats, possible threats and what's unlikely -- this will help guide more rational thinking. Then, sort the list by what can be controlled (spending less by using cash only, for instance), what can be managed (perhaps finding a credit card with a lower interest rate if you have an outstanding balance) and what should be monitored (like the amount of money you are bringing in each month).
''The idea is to normalize and name the situation, prioritize the fears and organize them in a way where they have a process to stabilize their financial situation,'' Ms. Haselton said.
SHARE RESPONSIBILITYThomas Faupl, a licensed marriage and family therapist in San Francisco who specializes in the emerging field of financial therapy, suggests that couples create an emergency budget that will help prepare for the longer term, strip down expenses down to the essentials and re-evaluate what's really important to the family. ''Many times, it's not about the money but the quality of the relationship,'' he added. ''By revisiting what is most important to them as a couple and a family, that will help them get through the dark days.''
And be sure to go through the exercise together. ''Having one person take over the finances disempowers the other and can lead to resentment, blame, communication breakdowns and misplaced assumptions about how bills are getting handled,'' Mr. Faupl said, adding that credit counseling agencies can also lend a helping hand. Working jointly will also help you identify areas where you disagree, which may help avoid arguments later.
SET COMMUNICATION ROUTINES When resentment or other negative feelings fester, even greeting your spouse can become a chore. But establishing a communication routine can help you remain connected, even if you aren't feeling particularly amorous. That means saying good morning and good night, greeting each other when you enter and leave the house, and sharing a compliment a day. It could be as simple as, 'Thanks for picking up the fish for dinner,' '' said Laurie Puhn, a couples mediator and author of ''Fight Less, Love More'' (Rodale, 2010).
''In the lower points of our marriage, this routine is gone,'' she said, ''and it would have been automatic when we dated.''
DON'T OVERSHARE Talk with your partner about what details you want to remain private and what's all right to discuss with family or friends. Is it O.K. to mention that your spouse is going on a second interview -- or on antidepressants? What about your finances? And how much are you telling your mother? Or father? Finding that public and private line demonstrates a sense of loyalty, Ms. Puhn said. ''And then you prevent the fight that would happen after your holiday dinner.''
CHEERLEADING Being out of work for a prolonged period of time can crush one's self-esteem, which is why working spouses should let their partners know they are valued and loved for who they are. ''We live in a culture where work informs our sense of self, our identity, so that is hard for a lot of people who are unemployed,'' Mr. Faupl said.
Being forced to change careers or take a lower-paying job can also hurt one's self image. ''A supportive spouse looks at the wife who lost the job and says, 'I am so proud of you for taking a lower-paying job doing something you don't really want to do because you care about us and our family,' '' Ms. Puhn said. ''By choosing different words to describe it, you change its meaning. And if we convey that to each other, then your children sense that, too, and there is pride in what you are doing not shame.''
ARGUE PRODUCTIVELY You're probably going to argue, so you might as well make it a productive exercise. Most fights that couples have are recycled, Ms. Puhn said, because the couple never reached a solution during the first go-round. So try to resolve the issue. Don't speak in the abstract (''The job interview didn't go well.'') but instead focus on specifics (''I don't feel that I made a strong impression.''). The fight should end with a something to do, or a preventive plan for the future. ''A good fight carefully walks away from the past and looks at what you should do the next time,'' Ms. Puhn said.
MIRRORING And if you're in a communication rut, you might consider a mirroring exercise suggested by Ms. Mellan, who said she adapted the three-step activity from Harville Hendrix, a couples counselor. You both start by saying something that you appreciate about each other. Then, one partner shares what they're concerned about. So you might say, ''I'm really anxious about how much you're spending.'' Then, the partner doing the listening simply replays what was said, adding, ''Is there more?'' Once you've laid everything out, the listening partner should try to validate your feelings by saying something like, ''It makes sense that you're worried because we have less money.'' Even if you're angry, try to avoid saying things like, ''It makes sense you're nervous because your mother was a nervous wreck, too.''
Lastly, the partner with the listening role should try to empathize. Then, you repeat the exercise with the other partner taking the lead.
INCLUDE THE CHILDREN Children of all ages are going to sense the stress you and your spouse are feeling, even if you save your discussions for after bedtime. So try to explain what has happened in language they can understand, and reassure them that both parents are working hard to find good solutions, Dr. Baker said. College-age children may be worried about whether they'll be able to stay in school, so it's important to speak with them as well.
DATE NIGHTS Try to come up with creative things to do that cost little or no money, Ms. Mellan suggested, so you can get out of the house and talk about things that are not job- or money-related. Maybe you can ask friends to watch your children, in exchange for watching theirs another night. And remember the importance of nonverbal communication -- eye contact, hand holding -- which can also help couples remain connected, she said. ''And those things are free.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laurie Puhn, a couples mediator, says simple communications like daily greetings and sharing compliments can help sustain a marriage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); FAMILY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FORECLOSURE (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1240 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks on the Seine

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- On a recent sunny morning in this city's chic Marais district, Marion Bayod squeezed behind a tiny table at Le Cactus, a neighborhood cafe she has frequented for years. She cast a sidelong glance at a Starbucks across the street.
''I never go into Starbucks; it's impersonal, the coffee is mediocre, and it's expensive,'' Ms. Bayod, a 35-year-old masseuse, said as a waiter greeted her by name and quickly brought her usual espresso. ''For us, it's like another planet.''
Nearly a decade after venturing into Europe, Starbucks is still laboring to lure people like her. Despite engineering a strong turnaround in the United States and growing steadily in Asia, where Starbucks is still a novelty, the company has struggled here on the Continent that gave birth to cafe and coffeehouse culture.
Now, Starbucks is embarking on a multimillion-dollar campaign to win over more of Europe's coffee aficionados -- with an upscale makeover of hundreds of stores to cater to an ingrained cafe culture, and adjusting beverages and blends to suit fickle regional palates. 
France may prove a particular challenge. Promenade on a Parisian boulevard with a paper coffee cup? Ca ne se fait pas! It just isn't done.
After eight years spent setting up 63 French Starbucks stores, the company has never turned a profit in France. And even in the parts of Europe where the company does make money, sales and profit growth lag far behind results in the Americas and Asia. Europe's debt crisis and sluggish economy are a factor. So are high European rents and labor costs, which impinge on profits more than in any other region in which Starbucks operates. But the biggest challenge may lie in tailoring the Starbucks experience to appeal to a variety of European tastes.
''Europe is critically important for our future,'' said Troy Alstead, the company's chief financial officer. ''We have not always put our best foot forward,'' he added, but ''we know we can have a bigger impact.''
To be sure, Starbucks has plenty of European fans. Whether in Amsterdam, Berlin or London, or even among subsets of Parisians, Starbucks stores are often packed with urbanites, tourists and laptop-wielding young people who embrace the coffee chain as an avatar of American popular culture.
''We see stars like Kim Kardashian in all the magazines walking around with a Starbucks,'' Daphka Monteiro, a 19-year-old Parisian and aspiring fashion designer, as she licked the cream off a 5-euro ($6.50) Frappuccino, across from Ms. Bayod's preferred cafe. ''My friends and I come because it's hip.''
That may be. But Starbucks struggles to make money from people like her.
While a New Yorker might grab a coffee to go -- carryout orders are one of the company's biggest money makers -- French friends tend to sit when they sip. So Starbucks is having to invest huge amounts to give its stores in France additional seating space, along with other renovations.
Michelle Gass, who last fall became the chief of Starbucks operations for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, recently took an anthropological tour to try to better understand the varying wants and needs of coffee lovers at the company's European locales.
''In markets where there is an entrenched coffeehouse culture, like Paris or Vienna, I was expecting to hear more requests to be like them,'' Ms. Gass said. ''But I heard the opposite -- people want the true Starbucks experience.''
Because that can mean different things to different Europeans, though, the company has devoted hundreds of hours to studying the variations. The British, for example, are quite happy to drink take-away coffee, so Starbucks is planning hundreds of drive-through locations in Britain.
And Britons like lattes, although many consider the Starbucks version too watery. So baristas in Britain recently began adding a free extra shot of espresso.
Across the channel, however, 60 percent of French people prefer espresso, while only 20 percent can stomach an ''Americano.'' And yet, many find that Starbucks espresso tastes too charred, even by French cafe standards. So just two weeks ago in Paris, the company introduced a lighter ''blonde'' espresso roast.
And then there is the issue of service. To humanize its chain-store reputation, earlier this month Starbucks had its baristas throughout Europe start wearing nametags.
In London, an experiment is under way to take customers' names with their orders and then address them by name when filling it. Participating patrons get a free coffee, but many others have lit up Twitter with complaints about bogus, American-style chumminess.
Other changes in the way baristas operate -- they now keep milk within arms' reach of the steamer, for instance -- are meant to overcome the Continental curse of slow service.
The most visible innovations, though, involve ''concept'' stores meant to make a Starbucks feel more like a trendy neighborhood shop. Last month in Amsterdam, the company's chief executive, Howard Schultz, cut the ribbon on a striking space with local woods and avant-garde architecture, including a stage for poetry readings.
In Paris, the company recently gave a rustic face-lift to the Starbucks near the Paris Opera. A vast store near the Louvre got a modern makeover, featuring a sleek, wood coffee bar. And the Starbucks on the high-rent Boulevard des Capucines is a sumptuous hall adorned with velvet chairs, chandeliers and a gilt-leaf ceiling depicting cherubs aloft in a blue sky.
As it adjusts, Starbucks can consult the history of two other big American food chains. Burger King was forced to shutter its 39 stores in France in 1997 after its strategy of directly transplanting its American model, without local adaptation, failed.
McDonald's, by contrast, has grown rapidly in France and in Europe over the years by fine-tuning as needed, like using French cheeses, mustards and meats; preserving local architecture in some of its showcase stores; and more recently, creating a cafe area in some locations to accommodate coffee-sipping patrons.
It is too soon to know how well Starbucks's new strategy might buoy its European financial results.
The company posted record sales of $3.4 billion worldwide in its most recent quarter, and its stock has rocketed to $53, up from $8 in 2008. But in Europe, the weak economy continues to stunt sales.
In the quarter that ended in December, sales in European Starbucks that had been open at least 13 months rose by only 2 percent. That was well below the 9 percent growth in the Americas and 20 percent in Asia.
Starbucks's profit margins are also much thinner in Europe, as a result of high real estate costs and labor laws that require relatively high employee wages and benefits.
But executives are so confident in their strategy that they are planning hundreds of new stores in Europe, from Paris to Moscow, beyond the 1,700 already in place. To corral ''captive audiences,'' Ms. Gass said, Starbucks plans to put many of the new sites in airports and railway stations on the Continent.
Some analysts see a danger of overexpansion, noting that the global recession in 2008 and 2009 forced Mr. Schultz to close more than 900 locations worldwide and cut $580 million in costs.
In Europe, ''it's possible the business could become more profitable and focused through the closure of stores,'' or by leaving some markets altogether, said John Ivankoe, an equity research analyst at J. P. Morgan in New York.
Ms. Gass rebuts the doubters.
''In Europe, there's no concern about us being oversaturated -- quite the opposite,'' she said.
''It sounds like a lot. But when you're walking the streets of Paris, compared with Manhattan, you have to go find them. It's not like you can turn a corner and a Starbucks will be two blocks away.''
Online Correction: March 30, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of Daphka Monteiro, a patron at Frappuccino, as Montiero.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about efforts by Starbucks to expand its franchise in Europe misstated its financial performance in its most recent quarter. The company posted sales of $3.4 billion worldwide; it did not report earnings of that amount.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Starbucks in Paris. The company has struggled on the Continent that gave birth to cafe and coffeehouse culture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 A Starbucks on the high-rent Boulevard des Capucines in Paris, above, is extravagantly designed. At left, Marion Bayod, with Jean Philippe Guillon, at Le Cactus, a neighborhood cafe in Paris. ''I never go into Starbucks,'' Ms. Bayod said, adding: ''For us, it's like another planet.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B8) CHARTS: Looking for the Right Blend in Europe: Starbucks has engineered a strong turnaround in the United States and rapid growth in Asia, but performance in Europe has been lackluster. Now, it is renovating existing stores and plans to open hundreds of new ones across the Continent to bolster growth. (Source: company reports) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EURO CRISIS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (95%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (95%)

PERSON: KIM KARDASHIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (76%) EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012



1241 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Leading the World Bank

 BODY:
President Obama's nomination of Jim Yong Kim to head the World Bank is an inspired choice. The South Korean-born medical doctor and president of Dartmouth College has a stellar reputation as a global health expert. 
Still, there is a problem: Since the bank was founded, all the presidents have been American. Emerging economies, which contribute increasingly to global growth, are rightly demanding a greater say in decision-making. The World Bank job -- and one at the International Monetary Fund, which traditionally goes to a European -- ought to be filled on merit alone. That should not exclude qualified Americans, but neither should it guarantee them a job.
The bank needs a president with experience beyond Washington's narrow political and economic circles. Dr. Kim has worked on development in the poorest countries. One major success: leading a World Health Organization initiative that provided access to H.I.V. treatment to millions of people. The new president must also tackle broader issues of economics and growth, and manage the prickly political leaders who are the bank's overseers. That is why the bank board must take a serious look at Dr. Kim's strongest challenger, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Nigeria's finance minister. As a respected economist, diplomat and former World Bank managing director, she offers many conventional qualities of bank presidents. But she breaks the mold as a woman from an African country where she fought to reduce the country's debt, gain greater access to international credit markets and battle corruption.
The other candidate is Jose Antonio Ocampo, the former Colombian finance minister and high-ranking United Nations official. He, too, is a credible contender with long experience in development and international policy.
Robert Zoellick, who retires in June after five years, inherited a bank in serious trouble. He stabilized it, steered it ably through a global economic crisis and leaves it financially stronger, more focused and more inclusive -- a tough act to follow.
Washington and Europe seem determined to ensure Dr. Kim's election. The bank will almost certainly do well under his leadership. But it would do even better if the process for choosing the next president were truly competitive and fully transparent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1242 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Press for Influence in Myanmar

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

 BODY:
HSIPAW, Myanmar -- As Chinese workers in hard hats and red overalls bulldoze deep trenches into the orange soil across northern Myanmar for gas and oil pipelines to China, China's largest energy conglomerate is paying cash for land and trees in the pipelines' path, and building schools and health clinics for some of the poorest people on earth.
The compensation offered by the China National Petroleum Corporation reflects a bitter lesson China learned about doing business in the new, more democratic Myanmar when construction on a major Chinese hydroelectricdam there was suspended last year after a groundswell of outrage erupted over what was seen as China's imperious attitude toward Myanmar's people and its environment.
The gentler approach also reflects hard calculations in an escalating battle with the United States for regional influence. As Myanmar loosens the grip of decades of military dictatorship and improves ties with the United States, China fears a threat to a strategic partnership that offers access to the Indian Ocean and a long-sought shortcut for oil deliveries from the Middle East. 
With the United States reasserting itself in Asia, and an emboldened China projecting military and economic power as never before, each side is doing whatever it can to gain the favor of economically struggling, strategically placed Myanmar.
The Obama administration would like a swift foreign policy success in an election year. Having another country move from dictatorship toward democracy on President Obama's watch would be a political achievement; having a friendly country on China's border would be a strategic one.
But the United States is handicapped in delivering meaningful assistance by economic sanctions that Congress is reluctant to lift. Myanmar must conduct fair parliamentary elections on Sunday, settle conflicts with ethnic minorities and release more political prisoners before more than two decades of harsh sanctions can be removed, administration officials say.
China, Myanmar's chief patron for decades, wants to maintain a relationship that will allow unfettered access to Myanmar's energy resources. But the Chinese, accustomed to unwavering loyalty from Myanmar at the United Nations and other diplomatic forums, are faced with a new government led by President U Thein Sein that has shown signs of wanting to be less dependent on its old friend and more responsive to its citizens' concerns.
In perhaps the most visible symbol of Myanmar's new openness to the West, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited in December, the first secretary of state to do so in more than 50 years. Photographs of her shaking hands with the revered opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, women of similar age in white jackets, their hair drawn back in ponytails, radiant smiles on their faces, now hang in cafes and homes, an impossibility six months ago.
Mrs. Clinton tempered her visit with warnings that economic sanctions would not be lifted as fast as Myanmar would like. Even so, the United States restored full diplomatic relations, a reward for Myanmar's political and economic changes so far.
In a counterpunch, Chinese officials blamed American meddling for the suspension of the $3.6 billion dam project last September, and said the American diplomatic effort was a direct challenge in its backyard.
''It is hard for the Chinese to see the United States push into Myanmar as not about China,'' said Yun Sun, a Chinese foreign policy expert based in Washington. ''The United States is a global power. It's natural it would want a relationship with Myanmar. But China had a monopoly, and if you have to share it, it makes it difficult to swallow. That's why the Chinese are angry.''
A prominent Chinese historian, Qin Hui of Tsinghua University in Beijing, warned his government that blaming the West's meddling for the dam rebuff missed the point. The people of Myanmar had expressed ''exceedingly broad-based opposition'' to building a dam at the headwaters of the Irrawaddy River, the nation's biggest waterway, he wrote.
China still enjoys a strong position in Myanmar.
The two authoritarian governments have known how to do business in closed-door deals on arms sales and megaprojects that critics say are laced with corruption. While Myanmar was isolated by international sanctions, China was its main foreign investor, and it has the advantage of proximity over a long border. Beijing has plowed billions of dollars into the country, and the United States cannot compete with that, American officials say.
Washington is limited under the sanctions to offering about $30 million a year in humanitarian aid, an American official said, even as the United States Agency for International Development seeks to establish a presence.
Sandwiched between the United States and China are some Myanmar businessmen who see American-backed reforms as the best solution to the chronically weak economy and fear that the slow easing of American sanctions could work in China's favor.
One businessman, who declined to be quoted by name because free speech can still be an uncertain proposition in Myanmar, said that if the United States insisted on maintaining sanctions and the economy failed to take off, China would come to the rescue with the old-style cronyism of big loans and huge infrastructure projects. The new gas pipeline alone, scheduled to open next year, will bring billions of dollars in royalties and transit fees. The oil pipeline to be finished after that will also offer sizable revenue.
For that reason, Washington needs to take a more pragmatic approach, said Aung Naing Oo, the Burmese deputy director of the Vahu Development Institute, a Thailand-based organization set up by refugees from Myanmar, also known as Burma. ''They should do more than talking,'' he said of the Obama administration. ''By continuing the sanctions, the United States is inadvertently helping those who want to take us back to the old ways.''
For now, China feels burned by Myanmar on the dam project.
The dam had provoked an outpouring of nationwide opposition, backed by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, and brought into the open a nascent antipathy to China, as well as to the ethnic Chinese population.
The dam on the Irrawaddy River, which has near mythic significance in Burmese culture, was being built by one of China's biggest state-run power companies, China Power Investment. About 90 percent of the dam's power was destined for Yunnan Province in China although, according to the World Bank, less than 20 percent of households in Myanmar have electricity.
Thousands of villagers were forcibly resettled by the military. They were given some compensation, including 21-inch television sets.
Opposition to the dam remains strong near the site at Myitsone. Some residents of nearby Tanghpre tried to return home this month from a relocation camp. At the red-brick Roman Catholic Church of the Columbine Mission, Sister Lydia sobbed as she told how the police had detained her when she helped some of her congregation return.
On March 17, Sister Lydia lost her battle. The villagers she had assisted were bundled up by the military and taken back to their Chinese-built homes in the relocation camp. A sign in Tanghpre said: government property.
In a signal that the company has not given up, Lu Qizhou, the head of China Power Investment, said at a news conference in Beijing this month that mistakes had been made and that the company would try to take better care of the local population. Whether the Myanmar government succumbs to Chinese displeasure and allows the dam construction to resume remains unclear.
Meanwhile, the pipeline project -- which starts at a deep-sea port on the Bay of Bengal and is being built by China National Petroleum, operators of projects in nearly a dozen countries -- proceeds at an urgent pace. Trucks laden with pipes trundle through villages around the clock. Bulldozers dig trenches 12 hours a day.
The company is making relatively generous payments to cash-starved farmers to move off the rich soil that grew luxuriant crops of watermelons, castor beans and mangoes.
A quarter-acre farm fetches about $10,000 and a large mango tree about $400, according to local businessmen in Hsipaw. In a flash of the kind of corporate responsibility increasingly practiced by Western natural resource companies, the Chinese corporation recently built a health clinic in one of the villages close to the pipeline, a sturdy concrete structure that contrasts with the flimsy bamboo houses.
About six miles northeast of Mandalay, the second biggest city, the company donated a new school.
''They built a pipeline near here for their own economy,'' said Daw Swe Oo, a math teacher. ''They take a lot of our resources and donate back a little here and there. But I am just happy and excited to have a nice new school to teach in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Trucks loaded with giant pipes are a daily sight in the sleepy northern town of Hsipaw. More photos are at: nytimes.com/world.
 The Chinese company building a Myanmar-to-China pipeline has donated a new school building in a village near Mandalay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) MAP: Some Hsipaw residents are being paid to vacate land. (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (57%); ETHNICITY (50%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (72%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%); THEIN SEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) CHINA (99%); MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1243 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: French Police Detain 17 In Aftermath Of Killings

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PARIS -- Eight days after the police shot dead the self-confessed killer of four Jews and three French paratroopers in Toulouse, the French police on Friday detained 17 people described as Islamic militants in that city and other parts of France.
The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, said that the detentions were not directly related to the killings in Toulouse, where the gunman, Mohammed Merah, claimed membership in Al Qaeda and was killed by the police as he resisted arrest. 
The raids appeared to have two purposes. The first was to ''kick the ant pile,'' as the French say -- a preventive act to detain a variety of people and interrogate them, to try to ensure that there are no further plots under way and no copycat killings. The president said some Kalashnikov assault rifles had been seized.
The second seemed to be to reinforce Mr. Sarkozy's image as tough on crime and on Islamic radicalism, an image that is expected to aid him in the presidential election less than a month away.
On Thursday, Mr. Sarkozy continued his tough talk, saying that at least four imams whom he judged to be more radical than others would not be allowed into France to attend a religious conference. He also said that raids ''are going to continue'' and will result in the deportation of some people from France.
And he compared the shock of Toulouse to Sept. 11, 2001, in the United States, a comment that was quickly criticized as excessive by his rivals for the presidency.
''What must be understood is that the trauma'' of Mr. Merah's killings ''is profound for our country, a little -- I don't want to compare the horrors -- a little like the trauma that followed in the United States and in New York after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,'' Mr. Sarkozy told Europe 1 radio.
His main rival, the Socialist candidate Francois Hollande, runs ahead of Mr. Sarkozy in polls on most other key issues, like the economy and unemployment. Mr. Hollande has criticized Mr. Sarkozy for using overblown language, but has been reluctant to say anything that appears to be critical of the French police or intelligence services in the wake of the Toulouse killings.
The authorities said that 19 people were arrested in the early morning raids Friday in the Paris region and in southern and western cities, including Toulouse and Nantes. Two people were held briefly and released, while 17 others remained in custody. They will be questioned under antiterrorism rules and many of them are likely to be quietly released.
Nantes had already figured in police investigations after the Interior Ministry in January closed down a small militant group, Forsane Alizza, accused of extremist views. Before the authorities shut its Web site, the group said it sought to recruit ''soldiers,'' though for what purpose remained unclear. The leader of the group, Mohammed Achamlane, who was detained on Friday, has denied that the group is seeking jihadist recruits or that it had any links to Mr. Merah.
Mr. Merah told the police he had killed three French soldiers, all Muslim, because they were fighting Muslims in Afghanistan, before he attacked a Jewish school in Toulouse last week, killing three children and a rabbi.
Investigating judges have filed preliminary murder and terrorism charges against Mr. Merah's older brother, saying that the killer acted with his guidance. The brother, Abdelkader Merah, 29, was described by the police as an Islamic radical who reportedly had ties to at least one jihadist network. The brother denies involvement in the fatal shootings, his lawyer said.
The police say it is likely that a third man was involved.
Mr. Merah, a 23-year-old French citizen, was buried Thursday after disputes over where he should be interred. The authorities in Algeria, where his father lives, refused to accept the body on security grounds. The municipal authorities in Toulouse were also reluctant to permit the burial until Mr. Sarkozy stepped in. Around 30 people attended the burial. His mother did not attend, and he was buried in an unmarked grave to prevent desecration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Islamic leader Mohammed Achamlane was arrested Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-SEBASTIEN EVRARD/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); DEPORTATION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); FIREARMS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1244 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
FRENCH POLICE DETAIN 17
IN AFTERMATH OF KILLINGS
Eight days after the police shot dead the self-confessed killer of four Jews and three French paratroopers in Toulouse, French police detained 17 people described as Islamic militants in that city and other parts of France seized some Kalashnikov assault rifles. Page A4
BRITONS CRITICIZE AID CUTS 
Prime Minister David Cameron says he wants to end Britain's ''sick-note culture'' of fraudulent disability claims. But his new get-tough policy has left his coalition government in conflict with thousands of ill and disabled Britons. Page A4
INQUEST PUSHED FOR RUSSIAN
Aleksei Navalny, Russia's most prominent anticorruption activist, bolsters pressure on the Russian government to investigate what he called corrupt financial practices by a senior deputy to Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin. Page A5
AFGHAN POLICE MURDERED
A member of a militia promoted by the American military to protect rural villages drugged his Afghan colleagues and killed at least nine of them as they slept, a police official said, in the third deadly episode involving the irregular guard force in March. Page A8
U.S. CONFIRMS BREACH
A Canadian naval officer accused of a major security breach had access to secrets from a five-nation intelligence alliance and was passing information to Russia, American officials confirmed this week. Page A9
PALESTINIANS PROTEST
Thousands of Palestinians protested against Israeli policies of land seizure and control of Jerusalem, leading to clashes with Israeli troops in which a 20-year-old was killed and scores of others were injured. Page A9
READYING FOR NORTH KOREA
Japan is deploying guided-missile destroyers and antiaircraft batteries with orders to shoot down a North Korean rocket if it falls toward Japanese territory, Japan's defense minister said. Page A9
National
LAWYER FOR ACCUSED SOLDIER
SEEKS ACCESS TO EVIDENCE
The lawyer representing Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, the soldier accused of killing 17 Afghan civilians this month, said that military prosecutors denied members of his legal team access to witnesses at a Kandahar hospital, as well as to investigative files, medical records and surveillance video relevant to the case. Page A10
A PARTNERSHIP OFF THE COURT
The rivalry between Kentucky's two best college basketball teams, which will face off in the N.C.A.A. semifinals, is nothing short of a state civil war. But behind the competition on the court, there is a new collaboration in the economy. Page A10
REVERSAL ON FLU DATA
After a public furor over experiments that made a dangerous flu virus more contagious, a panel of scientific advisers reversed itself and recommended that full details of the research be published in scientific journals. Page A11
RULING FOR UNIONS
A federal judge concluded that parts of a law limiting public sector unions in Wisconsin -- the law that started a political battle between Republican officials and labor leaders in the state a year ago -- violate the Constitution. Page A14
New York
ALBANY'S BUDGET APPROVAL
THE SMOOTHEST IN YEARS
The State Legislature approved a $132.6 billion spending plan for the fiscal year that begins Sunday, bringing to a punctual conclusion one of the smoothest state budget negotiations at the Capitol in years. Page A16
PRICE WAR FOR MIDTOWN SLICE
In the amped-up war of commerce and 75-cent pizza on the Avenue of Americas in Midtown, a perilous moment is approaching. Circumstances suggest that ravenous New Yorkers might soon witness 50-cent pizza, 25-cent pizza or, yes, free pizza. Page A15
Business
MASTERCARD AND VISA
INVESTIGATE DATA BREACH
Visa and MasterCard are investigating whether a data security breach at one of the main companies that process electronic transactions improperly exposed private customer information, bank officials said Friday, highlighting a key vulnerability that could affect millions of credit card holders. Page B1
UNION MERGER APPROVED
Members of two performers' unions have overwhelmingly approved a merger plan, creating a combined union representing 150,000 actors, broadcasters, news writers and others in the entertainment and media industries, their representatives said. Page B3
STEEL PLANT IN INDIA DELAYED
An Indian tribunal dealt a new blow to a long-delayed steel project proposed by the South Korean company Posco by suspending its environmental approval and directing regulators to review the project again. Page B4
LABOR AUDIT ON FOXCONN
The Fair Labor Association, the international monitoring group, has often been criticized for being too cozy with the companies it audits. But the association's report on the electronics manufacturing giant Foxconn received generally favorable reviews for its toughness. Page B5
Sports
PITINO FLASHES BACK
TO ROLE AS UNDERDOG
Against Kentucky, Louisville Coach Rick Pitino can dust off his slingshot and try to topple a Goliath, as if it were the 1987 Final Four again and he was still at Providence. On Basketball, Harvey Araton. Page D1
DERBY FAVORITE IS HEALTHY
Despite a narrow loss in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile, Union Rags exited 2011 with his reputation intact. His trainer, Mike Matzof, limited him to only two prep races before the Kentucky Derby, hoping to avoid injuries. Page D7
Arts
PBS OFFERS NEXT ENTRY
OF MASTERPIECE CLASSICS
Just when ''Downton Abbey'' made America fall back in love with British costume dramas, here comes ''Great Expectations'' to break the spell, a two-part BBC production that represents literary adaptation at its most monotonous and wrongheaded, Mike Hale writes. Page C1
SAVING A DIGITAL DYNASTY
If politics, European history, family dynamics and grand strategic ambition interest or entertain you -- and if you might like to try your hand as a fictional participant rather than merely a reader or watcher -- Crusader Kings II, new computer strategy game from Paradox Interactive, will provide all of the storylines and drama you could ever want, writes Seth Schiesel. Page C1
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); INFLUENZA (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); LAWYERS (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); NAVIES (72%); MILITARY COURTS (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); BASKETBALL (64%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); JUDGES (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); VIRUSES (60%); MURDER (58%); FIREARMS (57%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (76%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (88%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1245 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Romney Skips G.O.P. Rivals in Anti-Obama Speech

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Allison Kopicki contributed reporting from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
APPLETON, Wis. -- Four days before the Republican presidential primary here, Mitt Romney swept into Wisconsin, sounding general election themes and offering a forceful -- and at times lyrical -- speech laying out a stark and clear contrast between himself and President Obama.
''Barack Obama and I have fundamentally different visions for America,'' Mr. Romney said Friday. ''He spent the last three or four years laying the foundation for a new government-centered society. I will spend the next four years rebuilding the foundation of our opportunity society, led by free people and their free enterprises.'' 
If Mr. Romney adopted the tone of the presumptive nominee in his formal speech -- delivered in a dark suit and red power tie -- he also arrived in Wisconsin with the air of a front-runner, ahead in the polls and with the backing of prominent Republicans.
In an NBC News/Marist poll of likely Republican primary voters in Wisconsin, Mr. Romney led Rick Santorum 40 percent to 33 percent. Only 7 percent said they were undecided. Wisconsin is hospitable territory for Mr. Romney, who does well among moderates, those who do not support the Tea Party, college graduates and higher income voters.
On Friday morning, he picked up the endorsement of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, a rising leader in the Republican Party and the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
''We're going to be entering a counterproductive phase in this primary if it keeps dragging on,'' Mr. Ryan said in an interview, urging his party to rally behind Mr. Romney. ''Who would make the best president? Who has the best chance of winning? Mitt Romney wins on both points.''
Mr. Romney, who often stumbles when reading from prepared remarks, delivered his 25-minute speech with the help of two teleprompters.
On a day when the Dow and the Standard & Poor's 500 ended their best first quarter in more than a decade, Mr. Romney crystallized his basic critique against Mr. Obama, should the economy continue to improve.
''President Obama did not cause the recession but he most certainly failed to lead the recovery,'' Mr. Romney said. ''All in all, President Obama prolonged the recession and slowed the recovery. President Obama's economic strategy is a bust.''
He added, ''This is a president who was not elected on the strength of a compelling record of accomplishment but by a compelling personality and story.''
Mr. Romney, who often says that Mr. Obama does not ''understand'' America and is taking his cues from the ''Social Democrats in Europe,'' attacked him Friday for expanding the influence of government.
''Instead of doing everything possible to promote the power of the free-enterprise system to create jobs and get us out of this crisis, Barack Obama has promoted the power of government,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And the results have been predictable and dismal, but he has 'transformed' us, as he likes to say, closer to his vision of a government-centered society.''
He did not mention any of his Republican rivals, and kept his focus squarely on the November election, which he noted in his opening remarks was ''222 days'' away. He ended his speech by urging the crowd to, ''Join me -- walk together this Tuesday and take another step until Nov. 6.''
Because of the relatively long break between the primaries on Tuesday, when voters in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C., head to the polls, and the next set of contests on April 24, a win for Mr. Romney here could help solidify his status as the presumptive nominee, even if he is still slogging away to hit the magic number of 1,144 delegates.
Mr. Santorum failed to qualify for the ballot in Washington, and a large win in Wisconsin could buoy Mr. Romney as he next seeks to deliver a knockout blow in Pennsylvania, Mr. Santorum's home state.
Mr. Romney also ramped up his wooing of female voters this week, organizing a Wisconsin ''Women for Romney'' conference call on Thursday, which featured Alberta Darling, a Wisconsin state senator, and Bay Buchanan.
Even his Secret Service detail seemed to be entering general election mode -- reporter bags were hand-swept, both the news media and the public had to pass through magnetometers, and some of Mr. Romney's staff members were sporting ''hard pins,'' indicating that they have been cleared by the Secret Service.
Mr. Romney already had the wind of the Republican establishment at his back before his Wisconsin speech, where Mr. Ryan introduced him. He picked up the back-to-back endorsements of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and elder President George Bush this week, as well as the support of one Mr. Bush's sons, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, the previous week.
The elder Mr. Bush made a similar point about the party rallying behind one candidate, reciting -- but not actually singing -- the lyrics from Kenny Rogers's song ''The Gambler.''
''You got to know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em,'' Mr. Bush said, borrowing from the song at the urging of his wife, Barbara. ''I think it's time for people to all get behind this good man.'' (In an apparent nod to Mr. Bush, as well as the ''fold 'em'' sentiment, Mr. Romney's campaign played the song -- twice -- before his rally here.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney on Friday accepted an endorsement from Representative Paul D. Ryan at a campaign event in Appleton, Wis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (68%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (89%); ROBERT W BEST (77%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1246 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: Commerce, Health Care And Broccoli

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
''If the government can do this, what, what else can it not do?'' asked Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia this week in arguments on the constitutionality of the requirement that nearly all Americans buy health care insurance or face a penalty.
''All bets are off,'' Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. gravely added.
Thus did this week's Supreme Court arguments over the Obama administration's health care law emerge as a historic test of federal power versus individual liberty, all the more remarkable given that just a few weeks ago, the overwhelming view of constitutional scholars was that this wouldn't be a close case, with even conservative justices likely to uphold the law.
That it now looks not only possible but perhaps likely that the Supreme Court will strike down the health care law as unconstitutional, probably in its entirety, is a tribute to some skilled and passionate advocacy and the persuasive power of conservative media -- and what seems a breathtaking departure from decades of Supreme Court jurisprudence. 
It's always hazardous to predict a Supreme Court outcome, no matter how pointed the questioning at oral argument. This seems especially true when the legal debate over health care has become so intensely politicized. Pickets were marching around the Supreme Court building. By their questioning, the four conservative Republican appointees seemed to signal their distaste for the law, while the four liberal Democratic appointees seemed to embrace it. That left Justice Anthony M. Kennedy in his usual position as the swing vote, and he asked some tough questions, at one point suggesting the government faced ''a heavy burden of justification.''
While the health care law has generated intense passions on both sides, I don't share them. Although it seems well established that many Americans are burdened with costly and yet woefully ineffective health care, if I'd been elected president, I probably would have focused my attention on the financial crisis and the economy and moved more slowly on health care reform. But I'm no expert on the byzantine subject, which has confounded more than one administration, and as far as I can tell, the legislation has had no effect on me, my family members or friends, all of us fortunate enough to have adequate health coverage.
But limiting Congress's power to legislate under the commerce clause is another matter, and could have far-reaching, and unintended, consequences beyond health care. Despite the often opaque and convoluted arguments this week, the legal issues don't strike me as all that complicated. No one disputes that Congress can enact laws to carry out powers enumerated in the Constitution or necessary and proper to effectuate those powers. Among the enumerated powers: ''To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.''
As the nation's economy evolved from largely local markets to regional, national and increasingly global ones, the Supreme Court has taken a progressively broader view of Congressional power under the commerce clause, even when individual freedom had to be sacrificed. This included limiting one farmer's ability to plant wheat during the Depression because his production affected the overall supply and hence had an effect on interstate commerce, and, more recently, upholding a federal ban on homegrown marijuana even if the plant never crossed state lines. The court has stressed that Congress needs only a ''rational basis'' for concluding that economic activity might affect interstate commerce, and even Justice Kennedy's somewhat stricter standard of a ''tangible link to commerce'' based on ''empirical demonstration'' seems readily met here.
With famed hospitals like the Cleveland Clinic mounting national ad campaigns and health insurers operating in national markets, there would seem to be little argument that health care affects interstate commerce and that one person's decision to buy or not buy insurance, just like one farmer's decision to plant wheat, would affect a national market. Congress has estimated that health care services and insurance account for 17 percent of the gross domestic product and amount to more than $2 trillion annually.
But constitutional opponents of the law have seized on the mandate requiring most people to buy health insurance or face a penalty as an unconstitutional infringement of individual liberty. They've argued that a ban on individual activity that, magnified in the aggregate, might affect interstate commerce (like wheat farming) is fundamentally different from requiring someone to do something or face a penalty, as the health care legislation does. A lower court judge ruled that ''inactivity'' -- the failure to buy health insurance -- by its very nature cannot affect interstate commerce.
Until this week, most scholars seemed to think this would be treated by the justices as a distinction without any special significance. ''It's a silly distinction,'' Douglas Laycock, a University of Virginia law professor, told me this week. Opponents of the law ''have gotten an enormous amount of mileage out of 'inactivity,' but that really has nothing to do with the regulation of commerce,'' he said. One hundred professors from many of the country's major law schools signed a statement arguing that those seeking to overturn the law ''seek to jettison nearly two centuries of settled constitutional law'' and ''there can be no serious doubt about the constitutionality'' of the insurance mandate.
But then came Justice Scalia's now famous invocation of broccoli. ''Everybody has to buy food sooner or later, so you define the market as food,'' he said. ''Therefore, everybody is in the market. Therefore, you can make people buy broccoli.'' Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. chimed in, asking Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. to answer ''as succinctly as you possibly can.''
Mr. Verrilli was anything but succinct: ''The class to which that requirement applies either is or virtually is most certain to be in that market when the timing of one's entry into that market and what you will need when you enter that market is uncertain. ...'' He never got around to discussing broccoli or, for that matter, any other antioxidant. No wonder the justices were soon pondering the slippery slope of federally mandated purchases that might also be good for us, like health club memberships.
Mr. Verrilli was trying to make the point that a decision not to buy broccoli doesn't increase the price others must pay for broccoli in the same way that a decision to forgo health insurance increases the premiums others must pay for health insurance. But it seems to me that a succinct answer to Justice Scalia's question is that the commerce clause would not limit Congress's ability to regulate broccoli -- if members of the House and Senate were crazy enough to pass legislation requiring all of us to eat green vegetables and if that were deemed a rational way to regulate commerce. The same could be said of health clubs.
A lengthy Wall Street Journal editorial last week argued that ''the reality is that every decision not to buy some good or service has some effect on the interstate market for that good or service.'' That may well be true, and Mr. Verrilli should have admitted it rather than getting entangled in unconvincing semantics.
That doesn't mean we would all be required to eat broccoli. Congress has the constitutional power to pass many bills that would strike most people as idiotic, but as a popularly elected assembly, it doesn't. The Supreme Court itself has said: ''The principal and basic limit on the federal commerce power is that inherent in all Congressional action -- the built-in restraints that our system provides through state participation in federal governmental action. The political process ensures that laws that unduly burden the states will not be promulgated.'' And absurd bills like a broccoli mandate are likely to fail other constitutional tests.
Mr. Verrilli seems to have done a poor job at articulating the limits to Congressional power under the commerce clause, but the Supreme Court has already done that for him in two relatively recent cases that, for the first time in decades, limit its scope. Both involved federal efforts to exercise traditionally local police powers -- to ban firearms near schools and to impose civil penalties for gender-motivated violence against women -- under the guise of the commerce clause. Justice Clarence Thomas argued that such a broad reading would confer a federal police power over the entire nation. In both cases, it was arguably a stretch to argue, as respective administrations have, that carrying a gun near a school or assaulting a woman because of her gender has anything to do with interstate commerce.
The same could no doubt be said of many activities traditionally reserved to the states, but defenders of the health care law needn't address them. The Supreme Court has established limits to the commerce cause, which is regulating activity that has little or nothing to do with commerce. The multitrillion-dollar health care and insurance industries surely fall well within that boundary.
It seems curious that opponents of the health care law are now looking to the commerce clause, as opposed to the Bill of Rights, as a bulwark of individual liberty. To the extent it ever was, that battle was lost generations ago. To Depression-era farmers, it was no doubt an affront to individual freedom that the federal government had the power to tell them what crops not to plant.
Of course, the Supreme Court could reverse decades of its own jurisprudence and fundamentally redefine and limit the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce. But conservatives should be careful what they wish for. The commerce clause was a response to the chaotic and often conflicting state regulations that hobbled the nation under the Articles of Confederation. Its interpretation over the ensuing two centuries has wisely reflected the growing nationalization and globalization of economic activity and, by doing so, has promoted economic growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Supreme Court arguments over the health care mandate, discussions of the commerce clause came down to vegetables. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KONRAD FIEDLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (78%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1247 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Compensation for Ford Chief Rose to $29.5 Million Last Year

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, received compensation for 2011 of $29.5 million, the most in his six years in the position, the automaker disclosed in a regulatory filing Friday.
Mr. Mulally's earnings included $2 million in salary, $5.5 million in bonuses and about $21.4 million in stock and option awards. The total value of his compensation rose 11 percent last year, when Ford earned $20.2 billion in net income. 
''We had a very good year last year,'' said Jay Cooney, a Ford spokesman. ''The compensation committee felt that our exceptional performance in 2011 merited these compensation awards.''
Ford's executive chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., received compensation worth $14.5 million in 2011, 45 percent less than the previous year. He earned a $2 million salary, down from $4.8 million, and fewer stock and option awards.
All of Ford's top executives got smaller bonuses than in 2010 because even though profits increased significantly, the company fell short of some targets for the year, including those measuring vehicle quality and market share. Ford broke a string of quality improvements in 2011 as problems with a touch-screen system translated to poor ratings in a number of surveys.
Ford's departing chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, who is retiring effective Saturday, earned $7.7 million, down 6 percent. Mark Fields, who runs Ford's Americas division, earned $8.8 million, about the same as in the previous year.
Mr. Mulally, who earned about $5.18 for every vehicle Ford sold worldwide last year, is the highest-paid executive in the auto industry. Volkswagen paid its chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, 17.5 million euros ($23.3 million) in 2011 as the German carmaker reported a record profit and surpassed Toyota to rank second in global sales.
General Motors, which is subject to government pay restrictions as a condition of the bailout package it received, is expected to disclose soon that its chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, earned about $9 million.
Sergio Marchionne collected no compensation in 2011 as the chief executive of Chrysler, though its Italian partner, Fiat, said it paid him 14.5 million euros ($19.3 million).
Mr. Mulally's bonus was down from $9.5 million a year earlier, but his pay has been a sore subject for Ford's unionized employees, which agreed to concessions as the company was losing billions of dollars and he executed its turnaround plan.
Although many observers attribute Ford's recent success to Mr. Mulally's actions, last year's compensation increase is sure to renew complaints from rank-and-file workers, particularly among so-called second-tier workers who earn as little as $15 an hour. The president of the United Automobile Workers union, Bob King, has called Mr. Mulally's pay ''morally wrong.''
Since leaving Boeing to become Ford's top executive in 2006, Mr. Mulally has received salary and bonuses totaling $37 million, though about half of that amount was paid in his first few months on the job. Under Ford's long-term incentive plan, he has received stock worth more than $100 million for the company's performance in 2008 and 2009.
Mr. Cooney noted that Ford had posted three consecutive annual profits under Mr. Mulally's leadership, and it had reduced its debt by $27 billion the last two years. It also avoided having to join its domestic rivals, General Motors and Chrysler, in filing for bankruptcy.
Shares of Ford, worth as little as $1.58 in the depths of the 2009 recession, closed Friday at $12.48, down 2 cents. Ford this month ended a five-year suspension of its quarterly dividend, paying 5 cents a share on March 1.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Mulally 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); MARKET SHARE (71%); BAILOUTS (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (90%); DANIEL F AKERSON (79%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1248 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls Oil Sufficient to Cut Reliance On Iran

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Burlington, Vt., and David E. Sanger from Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After careful analysis of oil prices and months of negotiations, President Obama on Friday determined that there was sufficient oil in world markets to allow countries to significantly reduce their Iranian imports, clearing the way for Washington to impose severe new sanctions intended to slash Iran's oil revenue and press Tehran to abandon its nuclear ambitions.
The White House announcement comes after months of back-channel talks to prepare the global energy market to cut Iran out -- but without raising the price of oil, which would benefit Iran and harm the economies of the United States and Europe.
Since the sanctions became law in December, administration officials have encouraged oil exporters with spare capacity, particularly Saudi Arabia, to increase their production. They have discussed with Britain and France releasing their oil reserves in the event of a supply disruption. 
And they have conducted a high-level campaign of shuttle diplomacy to try to persuade other countries, like China, Japan and South Korea, to buy less oil and demand discounts from Iran, in compliance with the sanctions.
The goal is to sap the Iranian government of oil revenue that might go to finance the country's nuclear program. Already, the pending sanctions have led to a decrease in oil exports and a sharp decline in the value of the country's currency, the rial, against the dollar and euro.
Administration officials described the Saudis as willing and eager, at least since talks started last fall, to undercut the Iranians.
One senior official who had met with the Saudi leadership, said: ''There was no resistance. They are more worried about a nuclear Iran than the Israelis are.''
Still officials said, the administration wanted to be sure that the Saudis were not talking a bigger game than they could deliver. The Saudis received a parade of visitors, including some from the Energy Department, to make the case that they had the technical capacity to pump out significantly more oil.
But some American officials remain skeptical. That is one reason Mr. Obama left open the option of reviewing this decision every few months. ''We won't know what the Saudis can do until we test it, and we're about to,'' the official said.
Worldwide demand for oil was another critical element of the equation that led to the White House decision on sanctions. Now, projections for demand are lower than expected because of the combination of rising oil prices, the European financial crisis and a modest slowdown in growth in China.
As one official said, ''No one wants to wish for slowdown, but demand may be the most important factor.''
Nonetheless, the sanctions pose a serious challenge for the United States. Already, concerns over a confrontation with Iran and the loss of its oil -- Iran was the third-biggest exporter of crude in 2010 -- have driven oil prices up about 20 percent this year.
A gallon of gas currently costs $3.92, on average, up from about $3.20 a gallon in December. The rising prices have weighed on economic confidence and cut into household budgets, a concern for an Obama administration seeking re-election.
On Friday afternoon, oil prices on commodity markets closed at $103.02 a barrel, up 24 cents for the day.
Moreover, the new sanctions -- which effectively force countries to choose between doing business with the United States and buying oil from Iran -- threaten to fray diplomatic relationships with close allies that buy some of their crude from Tehran, like South Korea.
But in a conference call with reporters, senior administration officials said they were confident that they could put the sanctions in effect without damaging the global economy.
Iran currently exports about 2.2 million barrels of crude oil a day, according to the economic analysis company IHS Global Insight, and other oil producers will look to make up much of that capacity, as countries buy less and less oil from Iran. A number of countries are producing more petroleum, including the United States itself, which should help to make up the gap.
Most notably, Saudi Arabia, the world's single biggest producer, has promised to pump more oil to bring prices down.
''There is no rational reason why oil prices are continuing to remain at these high levels,'' the Saudi oil minister, Ali Naimi, wrote in an opinion article in The Financial Times this week. ''I hope by speaking out on the issue that our intentions -- and capabilities -- are clear,'' he said. ''We want to see stronger European growth and realize that reasonable crude oil prices are key to this.''
By certifying that there is enough supply available, the administration is also trying to gain some leverage over Iran before a resumption of negotiations, expected on April 14.
The suggestion that Saudi Arabia is prepared to make up for any lost Iranian production is intended to remove Iran's ability to threaten a major disruption in the world oil supply if it does not cede to Western and United Nations demands to halt uranium enrichment.
However, administration officials concede that it is unclear how the oil markets will react to Iranian threats even with the president's latest certification that there is sufficient oil to fill the gap. ''We just don't know how much negotiating advantage we have gained,'' said one senior administration official who has been involved in developing the policy.
In a statement, Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said the administration acknowledged that the oil market had become increasingly tight, with output just besting demand.
''Nonetheless, there currently appears to be sufficient supply of non-Iranian oil to permit foreign countries'' to cut imports, he said.
American officials have also discussed a coordinated release of oil from the national strategic reserves with French and British officials.
Some energy experts question whether Saudi Arabia really has enough spare capacity to make up for the loss of Iran's oil. But the determination of the United States and Europe to combat high prices might be enough to quiet the markets.
The White House ''can have a very limited material impact on the size of supplies,'' said David J. Rothkopf, the president of Garten Rothkopf, a Washington-based consultancy. ''But they can have a much larger impact on perceptions. In this case, it's not so much the producers as the energy traders who are moving market prices -- and that's where the White House wants to play a role.''
Additionally, the White House has the ability under the law to waive the new sanctions if they threaten national security or if oil prices spurt, increasing the flow of money to Iran's government.
Online Correction: March 30, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article erroneously included Japan in a list of European countries exempted from the sanctions against Iran.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, center, visiting the Abadan oil refinery in the southwestern city of Abadan last May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIR POURMAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LEGISLATION (71%); EURO CRISIS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012



1249 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Newswallah: Bharat Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A round-up of news from across India. 

 BODY:
Jammu and Kashmir: Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, chief of the moderate faction of Hurriyat Conference, a coalition of separatist groups in Kashmir, is "supported and controlled" by Pakistan's spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), an American attorney said before a U.S. district court in Alexandria, Virginia, Kashmir Live reports. This claim was made on Friday by the attorney ahead of the scheduled sentencing of Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai, an American citizen, charged with illegally working for the ISI and promoting the cause of self-determination in Kashmir (Hindustan Times).
Tripura: The state has been the most successful implementerof the National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme that guarantees 100 days of work annually to adult members from rural households, Nagaland Post reports. Against a target of 100 days, Tripura managed to provide 72 days of work; Andhra Pradesh came in second with 48 days. However, the state lagged in women's employment under the scheme. The newspaper reports that "about 38.36 percent got employment over the year against the national average of 49.4 percent."
West Bengal: The state's mass education and library services minister, Abdul Karim Chowdhury, has restricted the purchase of newspapers that state libraries are allowed to purchase, to 13 publications. The government announced that this decision was taken to prevent government expenditure on dailies published by political parties and to promote local and small newspapers with low circulation. "Not all newspapers on the list would like to be characterized as either "small" or "low circulation," The Telegraph reports. 
Uttar Pradesh: Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav set a precedent for his party colleagues by declaring his assets on the state government Web site. The 38-year-old chief minister owns assets worth about $950,000 and his liabilities are estimated at about $30,000. (The Hindu)
 Rajasthan: The World Bank has approved $109 million in funding aimed to enhance agricultural productivity in the state (First Post). The money will go towards the Rajasthan Agricultural Competitiveness Project's efforts to create a "sustainable and efficient use" of water resource in the desert state. The project on completion will benefit approximately 155,000 farmers, mainly those with small land holdings in Rajasthan (Indian Express).
Gujarat: Over the course of the past year the Special Operations Group, an intelligence agency, has confiscated fake Indian currency worth nearly $200,000 from the city of Ahmedabad, Gujarat (Daily Bhaskar). Though they have been unable to stop the flow of fake currency in the city, Gujarat Anti Terrorism Squad chief has alleged that the Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HuJI), a terrorist faction operating in South Asia, is responsible for channeling the fake currency into Gujarat from Bangladesh.
Andhra Pradesh: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India on Thursday recommended an overhaul of the government policyfor land allotments in the state in order to reduce the discretionary powers of officials. (The New Indian Express)

        
Newswallah: Bharat Edition
        
Newswallah: Bharat Edition
        
Newswallah: What's in the English-Language Press Friday
        
Newswallah: Bharat Edition
        
A Conversation With: Gorkha Leader Bimal Gurung

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); POLITICS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WOMEN (73%); SENTENCING (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); LIBRARIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (70%); WOMEN WORKERS (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (66%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); TERRORISM (62%); AGRICULTURE (61%); WATER QUALITY (50%) Andhra Pradesh; Gujarat; Jammu and Kashmir; Rajasthan; Tripura; West Bengal; Fai, Syed Ghulam Nabi; Agriculture and Farming; Politics and Government; Inter-Services Intelligence; Andhra Pradesh (India); Kashmir and Jammu (India); Rajasthan (India)

ORGANIZATION: Inter-Services Intelligence

PERSON: Fai, Syed Ghulam Nabi

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); GUJARAT, INDIA (91%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (90%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (90%); TRIPURA, INDIA (88%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (73%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%); NAGALAND, INDIA (58%) INDIA (97%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); BANGLADESH (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%) Andhra Pradesh (India); Kashmir and Jammu (India); Rajasthan (India)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1250 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Oil

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
The Obama administration has determined that there is sufficient oil in world markets to allow countries to significantly reduce their imports from Iran, clearing the way for Washington to impose harsh new sanctions designed to pressure Tehran to abandon its nuclear ambitions, Annie Lowrey reports.

        
Although President Obama did not mention the Supreme Court hearing on his health care law at a fund-raiser in Vermont, the fate of his signature legislation hovered over the event, as he listed what he considers the accomplishments of his presidency, Helene Cooper reports.

        
After presidential primaries or caucuses in 28 states, voters have defied the widespread assumption that Republicans would line up in huge numbers for a chance to evict President Obama from the White House, Trip Gabriel writes. Voter turnoutas a percentage of the eligible population is down, and the states where turnout is up are often those that allow Democrats and independents to vote in Republican contests.

        
As Tuesday's Wisconsin primary approaches, Mitt Romney has adopted the tone of the presumptive nominee, Ashley Parker writes. Ahead in the polls and with the backing of prominent Republicans, Mr. Romney arrived in Wisconsin with the air of a front-runner. But the Republican primary has taken a back seat to news that hits closer to home for Wisconsin voters: Election officials say critics of Gov. Scott Walker have collected enough signatures for arecall election.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama used his weekly address to present the nation with two options: asking middle-class Americans to pay more taxes, or asking "some of the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share." He is hoping to garner support for the so-called Buffet rule, which would require those who make more than $1 million a year to pay at least the same percentage of their income in taxes as middle class families do. In order to pay for technological innovation, investments in the economy and retirement programs like Medicare and Social Security, the country will have to stop spending "hundreds of billions of dollars on what was supposed to be a temporary tax cut for the wealthiest two percent of Americans," Mr. Obama said. "Now, some people call this class warfare. But I think asking a billionaire to pay at least the same tax rate as his secretary is just common sense. We don't envy success in this country. We aspire to it. But we also believe that anyone who does well for themselves should do their fair share in return, so that more people have the opportunity to get ahead - not just a few."
Around the Web

        
Thanks to a typo in an official White House transcript, Josh Earnest, the deputy press secretary, became president for a day, Politico reports. 
Happenings in Washington

        
The American Mustache Institute will hold the "Million Mustache March" on Sunday from the United States Capitol to the White House, rallying lawmakers to create incentives for growing facial hair.

        
The Early Word: Kennedy
        
The Early Word: Contingency Plans
        
The Early Word: Skepticism
        
The Early Word: Constitutionality
        
The Early Word: Marathon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EVICTION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); MEDICARE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); FAMILY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); POPULATION DECLINE (68%); SUPREME COURTS (57%) The Early Word; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Taxation; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; Wisconsin; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SCOTT WALKER (74%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (73%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1251 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Romney Makes His Pitch to Social Conservatives and Attacks Obama

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney promises to restore and protect religious freedom. 

 BODY:
PEWAUKEE, Wisconsin - At a Faith and Freedom Forum here Saturday morning just three days before the Wisconsin primary, Mitt Romney continued his attack on President Obama, but also sounded some more socially conservative themes, which were popular with the attendees of the Christian conference.
"Religious freedom is under attack, again under Obamacare," Mr. Romney said. "The employees of the Catholic Church have to be provided by the Catholic Church with health care that gives them free contraceptive and free sterilization treatments and morning-after pills despite the fact that this violates the conscience of the Catholic Church. If I am president of the United States, this great choice that we have will make sure that in my case I will restore and protect religious freedom, we are one nation under God and that will be maintained."
Citing the life, liberty and pursuit of happiness promised in the Declaration of Independence, Mr. Romney said, "Life, is the first of those. I want to protect the sanctity of life." He added that, as president, he would "defund Planned Parenthood."
Mr. Romney ended his speech with a riff on how "extraordinary, exceptional, and special" it is to be an American.
"Our president doesn't have the same feelings about American exceptionalism that we do," Mr. Romney said. "And I think over the last three or four years, some people around the world have begun to question that. On this Tuesday, we have an opportunity - you have an opportunity - to vote, and take the next step in bringing back that special nature of being American, not turn us into a government-dominated society as we've seen other nations pursue, but instead to restore to this country the principles that made this nation the greatest nation in the history of the earth."
At a town hall in Muskego later in the day, Mr. Romney opened up the floor to voters with a freewheeling invitation: "And awkward questions are just fine," he said. "They're always interesting."
But few took the bait. One voter asked Mr. Romney to explain how his health care plan as the governor of Massachusetts differs from Mr. Obama's health care plan.
"Government at all levels - federal, state and local - today consumes about 35 percent of our total economy, that we think of ourselves as a free market nation," Mr. Romney said. "Thirty-five percent is spent by government. And when Obamacare - if it's allowed to stand, if it's allowed to stand - I hope the Supreme Court does their job and strikes it down. And if they don't I will."
He added: "But with Obamacare, that would take government to almost half of the total economy."
And he did manage to find one superfan.
"I talk about you so much at home my husband's getting jealous," said a woman, by way of introduction, before asking him how he planned to work with members of the Democratic Party, if elected.

        
Wisconsin Primary Overshadowed by Recall
        
Romney Campaign Gaffe Steps on Good News, Again
        
Disruption Closes a Missouri Caucus Before Vote
        
Romneys Make a Push Through Puerto Rico
        
Where Are the Republican Elder Statesmen?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONTRACEPTION (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (53%) Faith and Freedom Coalition; mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Wisconsin; Romney, Mitt; Roman Catholic Church; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%) Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012



1252 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, April 1

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum, Vice President Biden and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin are among this week's guests. 

 BODY:
The Sunday talk shows will again focus on the presidential race just a couple of days ahead of the Wisconsin primary.
Hoping to scoop up a few more delegates Tuesday, Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, is featured on "Fox News Sunday" and NBC's "Meet the Press," where he will discuss of the health care law in the wake of last week's Supreme Court arguments.
Joining Mr. Santorum on Fox will be Haley Barbour, former Mississippi governor and chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Howard Dean, former Vermont governor and chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Meanwhile, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, will be on NBC to talk about President Obama's health care law and the presidential campaign.
CBS's "Face the Nation" celebrates its first hourlong broadcast by interviewing Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. about the health care law, the Trayvon Martin case and the presidential race. Also on the show will be Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas, talking about the futures of their waning campaigns.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee who just endorsed Mitt Romney, will be on ABC's "This Week" and CNN's "State of the Union," discussing his budget plan and the presidential race. On ABC, Mr. Ryan will debate the budget head-to-head with the ranking Democrat of the House budget committee, Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland.
Also on CNN: Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader, shares his thoughts on rising gas prices and Mr. Obama's prospects for re-election. Plus, the chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, and the panel's ranking Democrat, Representative C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland, talk about national security.
Zbigniew Brzezinski, who served as national security adviser under President Jimmy Carter, is on Bloomberg's Political Capital. Also, Billy Packer, former college basketball analyst for CBS, joins the show as the Final Four tips off.
C-Span's "Newsmakers" has Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, chairman of the Republican Study Committee, weighing in on the budget and the presidential race.
On Telemundo's "Enfoque," Jos Gabilondo, a law professor, discusses the potential outcomes of the Supreme Court hearings on the health care law.
TV One's "Washington Watch" features three young, black leaders in Washington - Janaye Ingram, Washington bureau chief of the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network; Brandon Andrews, legislative aide to Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma; and Mikael Moore, chief of staff to Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California - talking about the Trayvon Martin case.
And Univision's "Al Punto" has Jos Mara Aznar, former prime minister of Spain, discussing the state of the Spanish economy.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, March 25
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, March 18
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, March 11
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 26
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) sunday shows; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (74%); JOE BIDEN (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); JIM INHOFE (57%); MIKE ROGERS (57%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (55%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (55%); C A DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER (55%); MAXINE WATERS (55%); JIM JORDAN (55%); AL SHARPTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

 
