

1 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: In Need of Public Support, Doctors Try Image Transplant

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
For Dr. Michael Elia, a Westchester orthopedic surgeon, the national debate over health care has come to this: he has taken the M.D. license plates off his sports car.
"People see you driving around in a little convertible with M.D. plates and they get hostile," said Dr. Elia, who practices at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. "It's just a $14,000 Miata, but people see the plates and assume its a $60,000 Porsche. There's such resentment against doctors; why make it worse?" 
 Across the country, doctors like Dr. Elia are coming to terms with the fact that they are losing in the battle for public opinion. While most doctors describe themselves as healers and advocates for the sick, a growing number of patients see them as the overpaid cause of the health-care crisis.
 
Shift in Status
 Doctors are reacting to their shifting status in ways large and small. Many say they do not use their title as often, are more conscious of appearing ostentatious, and do not expect the comfortable perquisites of the past, like choice parking spaces and priority at restaurants.
Some doctors are even trying to fight back. One surgeon's wife has formed a group to promote doctors as hard-working and devoted. And an association of Manhattan doctors is in the process of hiring a public relations firm to polish its image.
That might not be a simple task. Polls show that while most Americans like their own doctor, they believe doctors in general earn far too much. The Clinton Administration apparently feels the same way. Hillary Rodham Clinton said as recently as last week that curbs on payments to doctors, insurers, hospitals and other health-care providers will be a major part of her proposals for change.
"Too many people have made too much money" providing health care and health insurance, Mrs. Clinton said in a speech to hospital and nursing home workers. "The status quo exists because there are people who benefit from it. Talk to your friends and neighbors about what you see every day in terms of price gouging, cost shifting and unconscionable profiteering."
 
Once, a Nice Living
 Those are particularly harsh words to doctors who entered medicine when it brought automatic respect along with a nice living.
The average primary care doctor was paid $111,000 in 1991, according to the American Medical Association. The mean for all doctors, including higher-priced specialists like Dr. Elia, who would not disclose his actual income, was $171,600. But, doctors say that their incomes are not the cause of the nation's skyrocketing health-care bill.
"It's shocking to realize how people see us," said Dr. Caryl G. Mussenden, an obstetrician-gynecologist in Washington. "We should have seen this coming. We were just going along, doing our jobs, and we didn't realize that the world was changing."
The hardening image of the doctor-as-bad-guy is all the more frustrating to doctors because, while the public has come to view them as the perpetrators, they have come to see themselves as victims.
First there was the consumer movement of the 1970's, when patients began questioning doctors' judgment -- asking for second opinions and demanding to be involved in every facet of care. Most doctors praised the theory but believe it has gone too far with patients often demanding care that they do not need. The increased scrutiny came hand-in-hand with an explosion in malpractice suits and, consequently, insurance premiums. The 1980's brought the growth of managed care, where insurance companies can veto many treatment decisions.
 
'Do It or I'll Sue'
 "Here's what it means to be a doctor nowadays," said a Manhattan internist who asked not to be identified because he did not feel it was professional to criticize his patients publicly. "A patient comes in and tells me to do a certain test because he read about it in the newspaper or because his neighbor had it done. The insurer tells me I can't do that test. The patient says, 'Do it or I'll sue.' On top of all that, Hillary Clinton is saying I'm greedy. Is this why I went to medical school?"
A poll released last month by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation found that while 89 percent of Americans are happy with the care they receive from their own doctors, 56 percent believe the health-care system needs a "complete overhaul."
When pollsters asked the causes of the health-care crisis, 35 percent listed doctors. They also blame malpractice attorneys (48 percent) and insurance companies (36 percent). Only 4 percent blame what health-care experts often cite as the main problem: an aging population, overdependence on high-tech equipment and the costs of such social ills as violence, poverty and drugs.
"It's clean and simple to blame doctors but it's just not true," said Timothy B. Norbeck, executive director of the Connecticut State Medical Society. Nationwide, doctors' fees make up 19 cents of each health-care dollar, he said. Up to half of that goes for office overhead, Mr. Norbeck said, meaning that doctors receive less than 10 percent of the money spent on health.
In contrast, he said, 50 percent of spending on health pays for the care of patients with preventable diseases brought on by life-style choices like smoking, drinking and poor exercise.
Regardless of their protests, doctors are aware that they are not gaining much sympathy. "People don't look at the specifics," said Dr. Marvin F. Kraushar, an ophthalmologist with offices in Westfield and West Orange, N.J. "Whatever we make, they think we make too much."
Dr. Elia, the Westchester orthopedist, thinks the public has blind spots when it comes to criticizing how much doctors earn. He says, he calculated his hourly pay during 10 years of training and arrived at an average of $1.50 an hour. "No one envied me when I was paying $20,000 a year in tuition," he said, "or when I was working 100 hours a week as a resident. No one was bashing me then."
Some doctors compare their public image to that of plumbers -- another line of work where the client often resents paying the bill. The comparison, they said, saddens them.
"We're being made into tradespeople and technicians," Dr. Kraushar said.
Of particular irritation to many doctors is the term "health-care providers," used by policy makers, politicians and insurance companies. The use of a single category that lumps physicians with nurses, therapists and home-care companions is seen as a slap in the face to doctors, who traditionally chafe at even sharing their title with Ph.D.'s and dentists.
"They call me a 'provider,' as if this is just another service," said Dr. Peter S. Liebert, a pediatric surgeon in Westchester County. "If I'm a provider, I could just as well sell fish."
Many doctors concede that the profession brought some of this backlash on itself.
"For all those years, physicians had this kind of aura about them, and they took advantage of that," said Dr. Mussenden, the obstetrician-gynecologist. "They were condescending to patients. They didn't explain things. This is a reaction to that."
Dr. Ted Tyberg, a Manhattan cardiologist, agreed: "Doctors have been fiercely independent for many, many years. It's hard to tell them, after they've suffered and worked hard, to hide the fact that they're doing well in a recession."
 
Trying to Make Repairs
 A few doctors are trying to repair their public persona. The Alliance for Physicians and Surgeons, which represents doctors at The Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, is interviewing public relations firms about creating an image and information campaign.
Mary Ann Liebert, Dr. Liebert's wife, has formed a group called Spousal Advocates for Doctors, to publicize the realities of doctors' lives.
"The complaint is that doctors make so much more than the average worker," said Mrs. Liebert, who runs her own medical publishing company. "Does the average worker work a 60-hour week? Does the average worker get up in the middle of a rainy night and race to the hospital? Does the average worker never know if he'll be home for dinner, or a child's school play? Is the average worker responsible for human lives?"
More than 200 spouses have joined her group, she said, which was formed in the belief that someone has to defend doctors because they have not done a very good job of defending themselves.
"If my husband could argue his own case," Mrs. Liebert said, "he would have been a lawyer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "People see you driving around in a little convertible with M.D. plates and they get hostile," said Dr. Michael Elia, who practices at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. "There's such resentment against doctors; why make it worse?" (pg. B1); "They call me a 'provider,' as if this is just another service," said Dr. Peter S. Liebert, a pediatric surgeon in Westchester County, speaking of the term "health-care providers," as used by policy makers, politicians and insurance companies. "If I'm a provider, I could just as well sell fish." He relaxed with his wife, Mary Ann, and their dog, Chow, at their home in Harrison, N.Y. (pg. B2) (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); SPORTS CARS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



2 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
An increasing number of people with AIDS are accusing their health insurance plans of discrimination forbidden under the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. The patients are facing the loss of medical benefits that keep them alive. Several dozen cases involving health insurance plans that have eliminated or limited coverage for AIDS patients have been filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. [Page A1.]
President Clinton is seriously considering a hospital tax to help finance medical care for people who currently have no health insurance, Administration officials said. [A1.] In the midst of the national health-care debate, doctors are reacting to shifting public perceptions of them in ways large and small. [B1.] 
 Federal Reserve governors say they intend to do what it takes to bring inflation below the 4 percent rate of the last few months. That commitment could put them on a collision course with the White House, which seeks faster growth. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen vigorously thrust himself onto center stage of the budget battle last week, lining up a majority of House Democrats from Texas for the Clinton economic plan, buttonholing and cajoling senators, tearing into opponents at a news conference and giving loads of advice to the White House. [A11.]
 Ross Perot's grass-roots political organization is in turmoil, riven by disputes that are beginning to cost it some of its most committed volunteers. [A1.]
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has warned the operators of 34 reactors around the country that the instruments they use to measure the level of water in the reactors could give a false reading during shutdowns and fail to detect important leaks. [A10.]
There is a hard-earned sense of reality as New Haven waits to see if the Clinton Administration will begin a new assault on the nation's urban problems. [A1.]
 
International
A former Chrysler executive is setting a new style for Western executives in Eastern Europe. Gerald Greenwald is trying to turn around Tatra, the Czech Republic's oldest truck company. [D1.]
 
Companies
Astoria Federal and Green Point Savings plan to convert from mutual, or depositor-owned, organizations to shareholder ownership. The change will give depositors first crack at buying the new shares without using a broker. Depositors have been well rewarded in some similar conversions. [D1.]
American Airlines will begin laying off 350 pilots by Aug. 31, the first wave of pilot layoffs resulting from the airline's decision to park 31 of its biggest jets. [D1.]
 
 
Markets
The ruble fell to a new low of 1,024 to the U.S. dollar, breaking a largely psychological 1,000-ruble barrier. Specialists cited Russia's inflation, which has hovered around 20 percent a month. [D9.]
 
Today's Columns
Although prospects for President Clinton's economic program have improved, bond traders continue to look nervously toward employment and inflation reports due out in coming weeks. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D7.]
USG is back after two years under bankruptcy protection. Although analysts consider its stock attractive, the company has so far not aroused much investor enthusiasm. Market Place. [D6.]
Looking for fresh, trenchant, penetrating insights into the foibles and follies of the advertising industry? Look for a film made 44 years ago. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (53%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIRLINES (84%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); BONDS (76%); US DOLLAR (74%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CURRENCIES (63%); BOND MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



3 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Banks Moving To Shareholder Owners

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Depositors at Astoria Federal Savings and Loan in Queens and the Green Point Savings Bank in Brooklyn may soon have the opportunity to do more than just earn 3 percent interest on their money.
After more than a century of quietly collecting deposits and making loans without the bother of shareholders clamoring for dividends and higher profits, the two savings institutions separately announced plans last month to convert from mutual, or depositor-owned, organizations to shareholder ownership. 
 The change will not affect interest rates or deposit insurance coverage, but it will give depositors first crack at buying the new shares without using a securities broker. In similar conversions in the last year, shares were almost always offered to depositors at a price low enough to have them quickly increase when trading started, and depositors could sell.
Green Point, the country's largest mutual savings bank, with $6.3 billion in assets at the end of last year, and Astoria, with $3.4 billion, are just two of dozens of mutual savings banks or savings and loans to abandon the idea of mutual ownership recently.
 
Popular in 19th Century
 Mutual banks, a kind of cooperative arrangement popular in the 19th century when low- and middle-income individuals were shunned by commercial banks, now compete with ordinary banks, and regulators have encouraged them to increase their capital, which serves as a cushion to absorb unexpected losses.
With low interest rates, profits at mutual banks have been strong recently, and last year 57 mutuals issued stock totaling more than $900 million. Conversion activity was intense in the Chicago area, and is now spreading to other regions, including New York.
"We are in the middle of a feeding frenzy," said George L. Engelke Jr., chief executive at Astoria Federal.
In the last two months conversions have been completed in the New York area by Fidelity New York Federal Savings of Floral Park, L.I.; the Sunrise Federal Savings Bank of Farmingdale, L.I., and Hamilton Federal Savings and Loan of Brooklyn. In addition, the Roosevelt Savings Bank of Garden City, L.I., is in the midst of a stock offering to its more than 80,000 depositors.
 
$700 Million Expected
 Green Point's offering is expected to raise more than $700 million, the most ever for a mutual bank.
Although mutual ownership offers the freedom to operate without a narrow focus on the following quarter's profits, Mr. Engelke said that the chance to raise additional capital was too good for many institutions to pass up. The profits available to management and depositors who may buy the stock before it is available to the public have also fanned the enthusiasm for conversions.
In the 15 months that ended on March 31, the average gain in the first month after shares were issued was 33 percent, with 12 stocks rising 50 percent or more, according to SNL Securities of Charlottesville, Va.
Gains have been more modest among recent offerings. Shares of Fidelity New York, which converted last month at $11.50, closed Friday at $13.625 for an 18.5 percent gain. Sunrise Federal, which converted April 5 at $10 a share, closed at $12.625, up 26.3 percent, while Hamilton Federal, which converted April 1 at $10.80 a share, closed last week at $13.50, a 25 percent gain.
 
Interest High Despite Failures
 The interest continues despite failures of some mutual savings institutions that converted to stock in the mid-1980's, including Crossland Savings in Brooklyn and Empire of America in Buffalo; such failures wiped out investors. Now, low interest rates have made the surviving institutions more profitable and demand for their stock has been so strong that all available shares have been bought initially by managers, employees and depositors.
"The mutuals are institutions with value, and as they convert to stock companies, that value is up for grabs," said James Marks, an owner of SNL Securities. SNL has published lists of healthy mutual savings that could be candidates for conversion.
The potential profits have attracted a new class of depositors who have made a business of opening dozens and even hundreds of accounts around the country so they will be eligible to buy shares in mutuals that decide to convert. Because banks have given $500 depositors the right to buy as much stock as $10,000 depositors, opening new deposit accounts has been a relatively inexpensive way to get stock at low prices.
Among those depositors is Baupost Group, a Boston-based investment adviser that has been a depositor and investor in many savings institutions. But Paul O'Leary, a securities analyst at Baupost, says that it will probably begin to turn down opportunities "pretty soon," when lower-quality savings institions shift from mutual to stock ownership.
 
Not All Are Professionals
 Another investor who has opened deposits at many mutuals is Michael Price, an investment manager for the Mutual Series funds, according to bankers and lawyers. Mr. Price declined to return phone calls.
Not all the depositors who are looking for conversions are professional investors. James Rothschild, a Wilton, Conn., consultant who helps states evaluate utility charges, has opened accounts in a few dozen institutions, a handful of which have converted. His investments have done well, and while it is true that the stock is usually offered to depositors at below its eventual trading price, "it's not a free lunch," he said.
Depositors' demand has been so strong that many banks have not had enough stock to satisfy it.
For example, at the Home Savings Bank of Hollywood, Fla., depositors and management submitted orders for $105 million in stock last October, but the company was issuing only about $23 million.
"An awful lot of people from New York City somehow found out and made deposits so they could buy the stock," said Thomas H. Wohl, the chief executive. Because of the demand, he said, many depositors who submitted orders to buy $500,000 of stock were allocated only $560 worth.
 
Management May Buy 25 Percent
 Local depositors and a special category of "preferred investors," described by Harry K. McDougal, the executive vice president at Home Savings, as "relatives, good friends or someone known to the bank," were allowed to invest a maximum of $10,000.
Federal and state regulators give management the right to buy 25 percent to 35 percent of a new stock offering, depending on the bank's size, with remaining shares going to employees and depositors.
Managers and directors of Home Savings took about 30 percent of the shares offered. "Yes, management got a lot of the stock, but that just shows we were willing to put our money where our mouth was," Mr. McDougal said.
In Home Savings' case, outside investors bought the stock heavily in the days after shares went public, pushing the share price from $10 in October to $17.25 a week later. It closed at $20 on Friday, down $1.
As bankers have become wise to the practice of opening accounts at dozens of mutuals, many have limited the number of new depositors they will accept and have even closed some accounts. Mr. Engelke of Astoria Federal said that "junk money" from depositors whose aim was to become qualified to buy stock was such a problem that Astoria stopped accepting deposits from people outside the New York area in March.
 
Many Investors 'Flip' Shares
 In many cases, more than half the shares issued are traded in the first two days, indicating that many depositors are "flipping" the shares -- selling them for a quick profit rather than holding for the long haul. Regulators require that management hold its shares for at least a year.
Because of the scarcity of shares, some depositors with a right to buy stock but little money have been tempted by offers to buy shares for others who were not depositors.
Such dealings were uncovered last year at Firstrock Bancorp, the holding company for First Federal Savings and Loan in Rockford Ill., where speculators offered $1,500 to depositors who would order $210,000 worth of stock on their behalf. Regulators at the Office of Thrift Supervision are looking at other situations where depositors bought far more shares than would seem reasonable given their income and deposit size.
Although profits for depositors who buy shares have been almost automatic in the last year, analysts warn that the market could turn sour if interest rates begin rising, or a high price is set on a weak bank.
 
Warning to Investors
 "People who are playing this game and think that it is a sure way to make a profit are going to get slapped on the wrist," said Mark B. Cohen, a partner at Adams, Cohen Securities, a Great Neck, L.I., firm that helps arrange conversions. He also noted that before approving stock offerings regulators were pushing for higher prices on new shares so the bank received as much money as possible.
But even if profits are not as great as in the past, some analysts expect that conversions of the nation's remaining 1,200 mutual banks or savings and loans will continue.
Eric Luse, a partner at Luse Lehman Pomerenk & Schick, a Washington law firm that has handled many conversions, said the supply of new stock issues was likely to remain strong, partly because the managers making the decisions stood to benefit.
"Imagine you are a 60-year-old manager of a thrift who has been there for a few decades and done a good enough job that it survived the 1980's," Mr. Luse said. "When you see the profits earned by managers of those which have converted recently you have to wonder whether you should delay the process and let the gains go to the next generation of managers."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Turning Up Again" tracks annual number of mutual institutions converted since 1980 and annual total proceeds since 1987. (Sources: Office of Thrift Supervision [1980-86], SNL Securities [1987-93]) (pg. D1)
 
Table: "Fast and Slow Starters" shows the five best and the five worst performers, in percentage terms, of the saving institutions that have converted from mutual to stock ownership so far this year. (Source: SNL Securities) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ASTORIA FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (93%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (93%); ROOSEVELT SAVINGS BANK (52%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASTORIA FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS BANKS SAVINGS & LOANS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL GEORGE L ENGELKE JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



4 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
A ZONING PLAN FOR LINCOLN CENTER
The Planning Department will propose zoning changes that would put new restrictions on commercial development and building heights in the area around Lincoln Center. The new use and design requirements for the Lincoln Square special zoning district are intended to limit vehicular and pedestrian traffic in an area that has seen the addition of 18 new buildings since 1969. B3.
 
CYCLIST IS HIT TWICE AND DRAGGED BY CAR
A man was knocked off his bicycle by a drunken driver in Washington Heights, and as he limped to his feet he was struck again by the same car and dragged for eight blocks, the police and witnesses said. The episode was the latest in a series of accidents involving drivers whose licenses had been suspended or revoked. B2.
 

TEARS FOR A WEDDING NEVER TO BE
Dressed as bride and groom, Hema Sakhrani and Shaleen Wadhwani were mourned as they lay a few feet from each other in a funeral parlor in Elmhurst, Queens. Early yesterday morning, there was a kind of wedding ceremony. Later, several hundred relatives and friends crowded into the same room for the funeral. B3.
 
A RENOWNED SCHOOL STRUGGLES
St. Augustine School of the Arts, a nationally renowned Roman Catholic elementary school in the South Bronx, is experiencing the best and worst of times. An award-winning documentary about the school opened in New York on Friday, and the school's principal was recently honored as one of the nation's outstanding educators. But a fire last December that destroyed two-thirds of the main school building has left St. Augustine struggling to maintain its financial footing. B3.
 
MAYORAL RACE FOCUSES ON A WORD
A dispute over the use of the word "pogrom" by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for Mayor, has once again focused the race on the disturbances in Crown Heights two years ago. It was not the first time he has harshly criticized the Dinkins administration's handling of the Crown Heights unrest. This time Mayor Dinkins reacted more forcefully. B3.
 
REGION
 
SEEKING LINKS TO THE SUBURBS
Three decades ago, New Haven was an exciting laboratory for change, a model of urban renewal. Today it is a city of disappointments and diminished hopes. The laboratory is long closed and cluttered with its failures: misshapen renewal projects that haunt downtown, and the unchecked spread of poverty through neighborhoods. Yet as New Haven waits to see if the Clinton Administration will begin a new assault on the nation's urban problems, there is a hard-earned sense of reality. The fate of older cities like New Haven, many local leaders have concluded, was never theirs to determine. It rested with the suburbs growing up around them. A1.
 
A HEATED RACE FOR DISTRICT ATTORNEY
As the Westchester County District Attorney's race heats up, one thing is certain: for the first time in a quarter-century, the winner will not be Carl A. Vergari, who has held the post since 1968. His retirement has touched off a feverishly contested race, with the main contenders proposing fundamental changes in the way the law is enforced in this suburban county. B5.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Base Closings" shows the net employment gain or loss for selected military bases chosen for closing. (Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ZONING (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (76%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RELIGION (65%); SUBURBS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



5 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: The Federal Reserve Prepares for a Rate War

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Governors of the Federal Reserve say they intend to do what it takes to bring inflation below the 4 percent rate of the last few months -- a commitment that could put them on a collision course with the White House, which is eager for faster growth.
The worried mood at the Fed is far different from that earlier this year, when Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, began his honeymoon with President Clinton. At that time, with inflation dipping toward 2 percent, it seemed that Mr. Greenspan could relax and go fishing for all of 1993. 
 But Mr. Greenspan's happy days were rudely interrupted by an unexpected burst of inflation in April. Suddenly the central bank had to shift to a war footing, ready to attack the next outburst of rising prices.
This means the Federal Reserve might raise short-term interest rates in a month or two if inflation continued to grow. But the White House, which believes the current low rates are a boon to the economy, would view such action as a declaration of war. And it would probably direct its heavy artillery at Mr. Greenspan.
 These strains are perhaps inevitable, because the chief executive and the central banker have different missions. The Federal Reserve's raison d'etre is combating inflation, and it is deeply worried that prices have climbed at an annualized clip of more than 4 percent in recent months.
"The central bank's purpose is to get ahead of the curve," said Wayne D. Angell, one of the seven governors of the Federal Reserve. "If we're ahead of the curve, our credibility and the value of our money is maintained. Some of my economist friends tell me, 'We don't feel much inflation out there, but we feel better knowing that you're worried about it.' "
But President Clinton has different goals: to create jobs and fix the nation's anemic growth rate. Probably the last thing he wants is higher interest rates, especially after the economy grew by a dismal nine-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter.
Administration officials seem to be betting on continued low interest rates to lift the economy. They see that as the main, perhaps the only, stimulus once its deficit-cutting plan and its tax increases kick in and start slowing growth.
The Federal Reserve's governors -- none appointed by Mr. Clinton -- serve 14-year terms, to make them immune to the winds of politics. Thus, the governors said, if they have to make an unpopular rate increase to bring inflation under control, so be it.
Lawrence B. Lindsey, a governor who is pushing his colleagues to raise rates immediately, said in an interview, "I hope we can send a signal to people that the Federal Reserve is serious about inflation and that we're not going to let inflation come back."
People familiar with the thinking of Federal Reserve officials indicated in interviews that the central bankers voted at a May 18 meeting to tilt their policy toward raising rates, although the consensus was to wait and see if further bad news about inflation emerged in the next month or two before ratcheting up rates.
That decision, at a meeting of the central bank's main policy-making committee, the Federal Open Market Committee, gave Mr. Greenspan leeway to raise short-term interest rates, now 3 percent, by up to one-half of 1 percent before the next meeting in early July. The committee also includes five presidents of the Federal Reserve's 12 regional banks.
 
 
Wait-and-See on Prices
 But recognizing that economic growth remained fragile, the central bank might forgo any rate increase if consumer prices rise modestly in May and June, perhaps a tenth of 1 percent, compared with April's jump of fourth-tenths of 1 percent. Perhaps even more frightening for the Federal Reserve governors is that prices at the producer level rose six-tenths of 1 percent in April.
Those numbers were a stark contrast to the situation a few months ago, when Mr. Greenspan hinted that an era of price stability was at hand. He appeared to define such stability as inflation at 2 percent or below.
Many economists said they thought April's surge in inflation would prove to be an aberration. Soon, these forecasters predicted, the Fed would again see that torpid growth, not inflation, was the nation's No. 1 economic problem, and that lower rates, not a rate increase, were needed.
"I would assume that inflation will subside in May and June," said Henry Kaufman, who owns a New York-based economic consulting firm. "There is still a very distinct possibility of another easing of monetary policy early this summer."
 
 
Inflationary Expectations
 But at the Federal Reserve's marble headquarters, that seemed like wishful thinking. The way some officials there saw it -- and again, all were appointed by Republican Presidents -- stubborn inflationary pressures have built up because businesses were worried that their costs would rise as a result of Clinton Administration actions. Their concern was that inflationary expectations were being fueled by increased regulation, the prospect of new taxes to finance health care and fears that unions would take a tougher bargaining stance because of the Administration's pro-labor beliefs and actions.
People familiar with the May 18 discussions said a compromise was reached between hawks who wanted to raise interest rates at once to short-circuit inflationary expectations and doves who argued that the economy was so weak that rates should stay put. Mr. Greenspan built a majority for a tilt toward higher rates but without immediate action. Such a tilt would mean the Fed would likely raise rates if inflation did not lose steam soon.
Among the governors, Mr. Lindsey and Mr. Angell are often described as hawks, and Susan Phillips as a dove. Mr. Greenspan is said to have taken a middle position, while the Federal Reserve's Arkansas native and vice chairman, David W. Mullins Jr. -- who pushed the central bank to cut rates more aggressively during the 1990-91 recession -- is said to have lined up near the hawks.
 
 
Question Is When
 "After Chairman Greenspan heaped praise on the President's deficit plan and after he sat next to Hillary at the State of the Union, Mullins felt a lot of pressure not to be seen as caving to the Administration," said David M. Jones, chief economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. "In my view, the question is not whether the Fed will raise rates, but when."
The dollar's recent nose dive to a post-World War II low against the yen has increased the pressure on the Federal Reserve to raise short-term rates because higher rates strengthen the dollar by attracting investors from abroad. The Fed is also worried that a weak dollar would fuel inflation by making imports more expensive.
For some Administration officials, a rate increase now would be tantamount to a breach of contract. They believed there was a tacit agreement with the central bank that if the President pushed his deficit-reduction plan through, the Fed would keep rates low.
"So long as the Administration and Congress stay on the track of deficit reduction, the bottom line of what Alan Greenspan does should be low rates, not higher ones," said Allen Sinai, an economist and managing director with Lehman Brothers.
 
 
Comparison to Carter
 Amid all of President Clinton's recent stumbling and fumbling, some at the Federal Reserve have compared him to President Jimmy Carter; and when central bank officials make that analogy, it has frightening connotations. To the Federal Reserve, Mr. Carter symbolized double-digit inflation, and the bank helped insure his defeat in 1980 by increasing interest rates toward 20 percent.
To be sure, no Fed official expects the return of double-digit inflation, in part because the central bank seems intent on doing what it takes to bring inflation below 3 percent.
Although it may sound perverse, one view inside the Federal Reserve is that a rate increase now will not only be therapeutic for the Administration but might help Mr. Clinton's re-election campaign in 1996.
Which would be better for the President, this line of thinking asks: an rate increase of one-half of 1 percent now, which would in theory help insure a longer-lasting recovery with low inflation, or raising rates by a full 3 percent in early 1996 or so, should inflation rise too high? The latter scenario could abort Mr. Clinton's hopes of a robust recovery in 1996.
Still, Fed officials have recognized that any interest-rate increase would fuel tensions with the Administration. "The classic remedies against inflation may further stagnate the growth rate," John P. LaWare, another Federal Reserve governor, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In his efforts to lower inflation, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, may be on a collision course with the White House. (George Tames for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "No Longer Falling" tracks percentage change in Consumer Price index from the previous month at an annual rate. The graph runs from the beginning of 1991 through yesterday. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (96%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



6 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: New Haven's Task: Tying City to Region To Promote Growth

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, May 28

 BODY:
Three decades ago, when Lyndon B. Johnson came into office with an ambitious urban agenda, this small New England city was an exciting laboratory for change, a model of urban renewal and a testing ground for the war on poverty.
Today New Haven is a city of disappointments and diminished hopes. The laboratory is long closed and cluttered with its failures: misshapen renewal projects that haunt downtown, and the unchecked spread of poverty through neighborhoods. 
 Yet as New Haven waits to see if the Clinton Administration will begin a new assault on the nation's urban problems, there is a hard-earned sense of reality. The fate of older cities like New Haven, many local leaders have concluded, was never theirs to determine. It rested with the suburbs growing up around them.
There is increasing agreement among New Haven's political and business leaders that the great flaw of urban policy in the 1950's and 60's was that it dealt with cities as cities, not as the centers of metropolitan areas, and that the future now lies in repairing that rupture. New links need to be established with surrounding towns, they say, based on the economy they all share.
The great puzzle for New Haven and other old industrial cities across the North is how to reconnect themselves with the independent suburbs that encircle them, to become the equivalent of Houston, Phoenix and other younger Sun Belt cities that have grown by annexing their suburban areas.
New Haven and neighboring towns have begun discussions on how to cooperate economically, working together to attract new business to the region. But more formal measures like a regional tax that would recognize the city's role in providing health and social services for the area are only talked of, and the idea of reforming government so that city and surburban residents vote for the same officials is even more distant.
Basic matters like public education are a source of deep division and distrust; the efforts of state officials to promote regional integration plans have stirred intense anxiety in the New Haven area, as well as around Hartford and Bridgeport.
"The biggest thing that's different between 1960 and 1990 is that there's been such a shift in activity from the center city to the suburban areas," said Matthew Nemerson, president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce. "The whole flawed conception was, 'What can we do for the city?' It was the wrong question. The real question was, 'What kind of metropolitan area do we want?' "
Almost anything seemed possible in the 1950's as Mayor Richard C. Lee and his aides mastered the art of winning Federal grants and rebuilt much of New Haven. A slum hemming in downtown was cleared for a highway connector to the new Connecticut Turnpike. While malls everywhere else were rising on wide-open suburban tracts, Mayor Lee built a mall anchored by Macy's downtown.
 
Models for Federal Efforts
 Run-down housing razed in the poor Dixwell neighborhood was replaced by a shopping center, a community house and a school that stayed open 16 hours a day. As the problems of poverty became more apparent, the city used Ford Foundation grants for social-service programs that became models for Federal anti-poverty efforts.
"I wanted to be mayor because I wanted to change what the city looked like," Mr. Lee, who left office in 1969, said in a recent interview in his home near the Yale Bowl. "No matter what happens in the next 100 years in New Haven's history, my mark will be there."
Today, the soaring confidence and high ambitions of that era have been replaced by a sense that City Hall has limited power to shape the future. Even at the height of urban renewal, critics say, its importance was vastly outweighed by the highway and mortgage subsidies that were sending the middle class and jobs to suburbia.
Does urban renewal still have a role to play? This month ground was broken for the Ninth Square project, a long-awaited plan for a new neighborhood of apartments and stores on four downtown blocks. But around it are the failures of the first round of urban renewal: a flawed coliseum that is a burden to the city; the struggling mall, which has lost both its department stores; a failing hotel; the highway connector, which razed a neighborhood but leads nowhere.
While Mayor Lee renovated and rebuilt, all the metropolitan region's growth occurred in surrounding towns. From 1960 to 1990 the towns gained 110,000 residents and 97,000 jobs; New Haven lost population, and though its number of jobs did not drop, as economic activity moved to the suburbs, it lost thousands of the unskilled factory jobs that had supported its working class.
The new suburbanites were white and middle class, while the people arriving in the city were poor and black or Hispanic. By 1990 New Haven, with 130,000 residents, was 51 percent black and Hispanic, a rise of 10 percentage points in a single decade. It was the state's third-poorest community. More than half of its children lived below the poverty line.
 
Appearance of Thriving
 The lively streets around Yale University and the graceful Green, bounded by Yale, government buildings and Mayor Lee's mall, offered the appearance of a thriving small city. But behind that core lay rundown housing projects and neighborhoods succumbing to poverty and the violence of the drug trade.
The growing racial and economic isolation threatened to replace the city's traditional role as a commercial crossroads with a new one: warden of the poor.
"It's totally, totally unfair to compare New Haven in 1993 with what happened in 1953 or 1963," said Mayor John C. Daniels, whose four years in office have been defined by budget problems and who announced recently that he would not seek re-election. "It's two different worlds. In the 1950's, cities all over the country were powerful."
New Haven's leaders find themselves considering a new vision for their city, a modest one that relies more on the city rediscovering its place within the regional economy than on government action.
The Federal Government could be most helpful, they say, by increasing support for badly needed services while creating incentives for cities and suburbs to establish financial and political links. The biggest mistake it could make, they say, would be to once again ignore those links.
"If we just throw money at the city and say the city is going to do this and everyone else can do whatever they want, because they're not connected, I don't think it will work," said Mr. Nemerson, the Chamber of Commerce president.
 
Affecting Political Power
 Mayor Daniels said: "There's no such thing as a New Haven problem. When people say, 'It's a New Haven problem,' they're saying it's a regional problem that their town doesn't want anything to do with."
Reconnecting the city with its suburbs is a delicate task. Decades of suspicion have built up, racial divisions are deep, and many people who no longer live, work or shop in New Haven now fear the inner city.
New regional arrangements would also dilute the political power of minority groups in New Haven, where Mr. Daniels was elected the first black mayor in 1989. Blacks make up 35 percent of the city, but 11.6 percent of the region.
"You'll never hear anyone in Dixwell talk about regionalization," said Pete Gray, who heads the Dixwell Neighborhood Corporation, a nonprofit agency that sponsors housing, job-training and community health programs. "Because we're a 98 percent black community and we're the stakeholders, we're the people who need to make the decisions. In a regional government, they'll have more votes and they'll just outbid us."
But business and civic leaders recognize that the city and suburbs are linked economically and that their sharp racial and economic divisions increasingly detract from the strengths that make the metropolitan region, as a whole, one of the nation's 30 wealthiest.
"I see New Haven as the plug in the basin," said Warren Kimbro, a former Black Panther who now heads Project MORE, an agency serving ex-convicts. "With the plug gone, all of the water drains out. Some of us may be the last drops down, but we're all going."
Recently Mr. Nemerson, business executives and city and town officials formed a Regional Economic Development Steering Committee to encourage cooperation across the region to attract new business.
 
Renewal Effort Called Bold
 Among critics, the widespread redevelopment of Mayor Lee's era now seems piecemeal and ill-conceived, mainly having benefited Yale University and Yale-New Haven Hospital by clearing slums and building middle-class housing that buffered them from poor neighborhoods.
But Mr. Nemerson said the renewal effort was "a bold experiment" that preserved New Haven's role as a regional shopping center until very recently. As a result, New Haven is not ringed by suburban malls, and now a national developer, the Taubman Company, has proposed a huge new mall for downtown.
A new, bigger mall, supporters say, would bring people into the city again, re-establishing a basic economic link with its suburbs. Others, looking at the lessons of urban renewal, and the more than $100 million in state and city aid that Taubman wants, say cities should give up their obsession with bigness.
Let a regional mall be built wherever land is cheapest, they say (and share its tax revenue across the region), and build on the city's recognized assets: the research at Yale and Yale-New Haven, the cultural activities anchored by Yale and the blocks of restaurants and shops that prosper near the university, away from the renewal area.
"The critique of urban renewal says there was an illusion that changes in brick and mortar would constitute a lasting change in the city," said Douglas W. Rae, a Yale political scientist who served as Mayor Daniels's chief administrative officer for two years. "That is an illusion. Cities solve their problems through their strengths."
Many people think that realism at the regional level will lead toward more cooperation between the city and surrounding towns, just as Yale, with its enormous stake in New Haven's image, has increased its payments to the city in lieu of taxes and its investments in projects like the Ninth Square.
Even Mr. Lee, who still relishes what he and other mayors were able to accomplish for cities in an earlier time, sees an inevitability to New Haven and neighboring towns joining together.
"It's just a matter of survival," he said. "The towns are going to have to become part of the city, geographically and in programs, especially in education. People might say that's not a dream, it's a nightmare. But it's going to have to happen if we're going to preserve our way of life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Urban development policies of the past were flawed, many experts believe, because they only looked at the cities. The approach now in treating the ills of cities is to look at the metropolitan area, not just the inner city. Pete Gray, who heads the Dixwell Neighborhood Corporation in New Haven, a nonprofit agency, stands at the site of a failure from those earlier times, the boarded up Dixwell Plaza. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: New Haven Then and Now" shows the number of people in New Haven, and percentages of unemployed and poor. (Sources: Census Bureau; Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. B4)
 
Msp of New Haven, Connecticut. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUN BELT RENTALS (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN); CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUBURBS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73); JUDSON, GEORGE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



7 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Ruble Reaches Record Low, Dropping to 1,024 to Dollar

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 31

 BODY:
The ruble fell to a new low of 1,024 to the United States dollar today, breaking a largely psychological 1,000-ruble barrier. Specialists cited Russia's inflation, which has hovered at about 20 percent a month.
The 30-ruble drop on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange today continued a pattern that began with the decline of Soviet authority and the collapse of the Soviet Union itself late in 1991. At that time, the ruble still traded at about 100 to the dollar. 
 The currency, now Russia's, was battered in 1992 and began 1993 trading about 400 to the dollar. It slumped to 692 by April 1. On Thursday, the official rate was 994 to the dollar. The ruble has fallen even further on the black market, where $1 now buys 1,150 rubles, according to the Itar-Tass news agency.
Despite Western talk of making the ruble convertible, the ruble still cannot be traded on major world markets.
"The actual numbers do not mean too much," said Vitaly Kulakov, a member of Parliament who serves on the Committee for Economic Reform. "The problem, of course, is that the ruble keeps falling."
The average Russian wage is about 23,000 rubles a month. The currency's falling value goes hand in hand with inflation in the prices of consumer goods. As inflation continues to rise, this devours profits made by Russians or foreign-owned businesses.
The ruble's decline apparently did not reflect a recent agreement between the Government of President Boris N. Yeltsin and the Russian central bank aimed at controlling inflation and securing a $3 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund.
Under terms of the agreement, the bank restricted credits and said it would stop intervening in currency trading to prop up the ruble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; UNITED STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



8 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Uncertainty Is Around the Corner

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The prospects for approval of President Clinton's economic program improved greatly over the weekend with the disclosure of a prospective compromise in the Senate. But while that development should help calm some of the growing fears about the President's ability to cut the deficit, the bond market must still face, with its usual trepidation, the uncertainty surrounding both the May employment data scheduled for release on Friday and two important reports on inflation in the following two weeks.
Since the bond market rally reached its peak in early March, prices and yields have moved in a narrow range. For the 30-year bond, the yield has been stuck between 6.72 percent and 7.05 percent. 
 With each month's new economic data, investors, traders and speculators have hoped for a clearer indication of the course for both economic growth and inflation. But each month's data has only led to confusion and debate about the pace of price increases and the weakness of the economy.
 
Fed's Course Seems Clear
 The only "certainty" for the market right now seems to be this: the Federal Reserve is poised to raise short-term interest rates if inflation in the May consumer and producer price data continues at the heated pace of the first four months of the year, when the Consumer Price Index jumped at a 4.3 percent annual rate. This conclusion sent short-term rates sharply higher last week.
Like the employment reports for February, March and April, there is a wide range of forecasts for the closely watched nonfarm payroll data for May, which are to be released on Friday. The forecasts range from an increase of 55,000 to 250,000 jobs.
The chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, made some forecasters wonder about their predictions when he said last week that the United States was on the verge of a significant expansion in employment.
"After someone like Greenspan makes a comment like that, you wonder if he knows something that we don't know," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy in Princeton, N.J.
Donald Fine, the chief market analyst at Chase Securities, predicted that nonfarm payrolls would be up 175,000. He said there were signs of renewed economic strength in the car- sales reports for the second 10 days of May, which were reported last week. Sales rose to an annual rate of 7.4 million, up from a 6.8 million rate for all of April.
"It was the first economic statistic that I could say was strong," Mr. Fine said. Compared with production numbers of 6.2 million cars in March and 6.1 million in April, he said, "this tells me that this production pace will be increased."
 
Inflation at Bay
 The bond market can be knocked about by any surprising data, as it was by the unexpectedly high inflation reports for April, which were released in mid-May, and as it could be by this week's employment data. But the market's trading range since early March seems to reflect several underlying themes that traders and investors fall back on in the periods between the release of crucial data.
Despite the climb of the Consumer Price Index at a 4.3 percent annual rate through the first four months of the year, one theme appears to be that inflation is not taking off. While many forecasters expect consumer prices to rise more than last year's 2.9 percent, the increase is not expected to be large -- maybe to 3.5 percent.
"The fact that the bond is living comfortably around 7 percent tells me that people are not buying the inflation story and are not worried about the economy overheating," said Matthew Alexy, government trading strategist at the First Boston Corporation. On Friday, a short trading day, the yield on the 30-year bond ended at 6.98 percent.
But Mr. Fine said that as the year moves on, concern about inflation will shift from this year to 1994. And if inflation is expected to increase in 1994 after rising in 1993, then traders and investors will begin to push prices lower and yields higher.
 
Economics and Politics
 Another underlying theme is that the economy is still sluggish and is not yet likely to grow fast enough to push prices much higher. The new report on the gross domestic product for the first quarter, which was released on Friday, emphasized that fact. Growth was revised down to nine-tenths of a percent from the initial estimate of 1.8 percent at an annual rate.
A third theme is that while confidence in Mr. Clinton has waned, by the end of last week the market had not decided that a disaster was at hand. A narrow victory in the House for the President's program was a boost for him, and developments over the weekend that point to a possible compromise in the Senate may make market participants feel even better.
A breakthrough for the President came when Senator David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma and a crucial swing vote on the Senate Finance Committee, indicated that a compromise acceptable to him could be reached if the President's proposed energy tax was scaled back and spending cuts were increased.
Allen Sinai, a managing director at Lehman Brothers, had argued at the end of last week that Mr. Clinton would get much of his deficit-reduction plan implemented. And if this is the case, there are two positives for the bond market.
One is that the record Federal budget deficit might begin to decline. But in the nearer term, the negative impact of the tax increases are expected to keep the economy growing only moderately at best, which means there is less inflationary pressure. That is good for a fixed-income market, in which rising overall prices eat away at investors' income.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); APPROVALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



9 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Week's Treasury Auctions Will Be Confined to Bills

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this holiday-shortened week includes today's regular weekly auction of new 3-month and 6-month maturities and tomorrow's auction of 13-day cash management bills.
Traders said that by the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.05 percent and the rate on a six-month bill 3.20 percent. 
 The following are taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues scheduled for pricing this week.
 
TAXABLE
 
WEDNESDAY
West Penn Power, $102 million of first- mortgage bonds due in 1998 and $80 million of first mortgage bonds due in 2003, Aa-3/A+/A+. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
National Westminster Bank P.L.C., 10 million shares of noncumulative $25 preferred stock, A-1/A+/--. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch.
Ratings: Moody's/S.& P./Duff & Phelps.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
WEDNESDAY
Anaheim, Calif., $80 million of electric revenue and water revenue bonds. Competitive.
Anaheim Public Finance Authority, $140 million of electric system revenue bonds. Competitive.
Glendale, Calif., Redevelopment Agency, $66.5 million of tax allocation bonds. Competitive.
Pennsylvania, $173 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Allegheny County, Pa., $140 million of airport revenue bonds. Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
Austin, Tex., $250 million of combined utility system refunding revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Colorado Health Facilities Authority, $200 million of revenue bonds for a Rocky Mountain Adventist Healthcare project. First Boston Corp.
Dade County, Fla., $160 million of public facilities revenue bonds for Jackson Memorial Hospital. Lehman Brothers.
District of Columbia, $335 million of general obligation bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Illinois Educational Facilities Authority, $78.3 million of refunding revenue bonds for Loyola University of Chicago. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Maryland Health and Higher Education, $115 million of University of Maryland Medical System revenue bonds. Alex. Brown & Sons.
Maryland Health and Higher Education, $108 million of refunding revenue bonds for the Francis Scott Key Medical Center. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Michigan State Housing Development Authority, $212 million of rental housing revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
New England Loan Marketing Corp., $60 million of refunding bonds. Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $800 million of State University refunding revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Ohio Municipal Electric Generation Joint Venture 5, $158.7 million of beneficial interest certificates for a Belleville Hydroelectric project. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Orange County, Fla., $95 million of debt securities for Orlando Medical Center. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Puerto Rico Public Building, $515 million of revenue bonds. First Boston Corp.
Seattle, $253 million of water authority refunding revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (69%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (67%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (67%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



10 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: The '93 Cliburn Competition: Pianissimo

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Tex., May 31

 BODY:
Any news a page turner makes can only be bad, but it is also likely to be small. As the Ninth Van Cliburn International Piano Competition enters its final week here, a page turner has been the biggest news in this year's calm and amicable proceedings. By the standards of past competitions, Cliburn or otherwise, this has been a placid affair, seemingly free of contentiousness among the jurors and of charges of scandal from the contestants.
The lone tempest, such as it was, began on Friday morning, when Fabio Bidini, a 24-year-old Italian, opened the semifinal round of competition with a performance of Morton Gould's "Ghost Waltzes," an 11-minute work commissioned for the event. Each of the 12 contestants who remain, from 35 who competed in the prelimary round, must perform the Gould work as part of a 75-minute recital that makes up half of the semifinal requirement. Since the competitors received the score less than six weeks before coming to Fort Worth, they were not expected to know it from memory. Of the first six semifinalists to perform, only two played without the score. 
 But the page turner assigned to Mr. Bidini's performance, which was in fact the work's world premiere, failed to arrive, because of a communication mix-up, competition officials said. A volunteer -- a "backstage mother," as she is called in this studiedly homey environment -- was pressed into service. Never having seen the score, and working without her reading glasses, she jumped the gun on some turns, causing Mr. Bidini to fight off her efforts while continuing to perform.
 
Second Time Around
 By all accounts, he fared admirably under the circumstances; two of the jurors said they were intently following the score and were unaware of the desperate combat onstage. The jury arranged for Mr. Bidini to play "Ghost Waltzes" again this afternoon, in connection with his chamber performance, the second half of the semifinal requirement. He did so beautifully, and without incident.
So Mr. Bidini has had a fair crack at the gold watch to be awarded for the best performance of the commissioned work. But whether the upset of Friday hampered his subsequent performances, and thus his chances of advancing to the competition's finals, remains an open question.
"I was really prepared for the stage," Mr. Bidini said on Sunday, gamely dismissing the mishap as a mere test of professionalism. "I cleared my mind for a few minutes and went back out like new."
It is ironic that volunteers should be a part of the controversy, for this quadrennial competition, in its 31 years of existence, has become famous for its amenities, which are rightly held up as a model of Texas hospitality. Each contestant is taken in by a Fort Worth family for the duration of the competition, as are other guests, and no fewer than 650 volunteers keep the event running smoothly, adding a warm, personal touch.
"This is the most important and the most stressful competition in the world," Mr. Bidini said, "but it doesn't feel like that, because the people are very friendly."
Fate notwithstanding, Mr. Bidini, who has already placed highly in two international competitions, appears to have a good chance of becoming one of the six finalists, representing a strong Italian contingent this year. Another of the four Italians who began the competition, Enrico Pace, 25, was a popular favorite in the preliminary round. Mr. Pace and Alexander Korsantiya, a 28-year-old from the Georgian Republic, said to be among the more idiosyncratic interpreters, were both eliminated early. But even their strong supporters, including John Ardoin, the critic of The Dallas Morning News, greeted their elimination with dismay and disbelief rather than outrage.
"These are performers of finish and obvious accomplishment, who intrigue and stimulate," Mr. Ardoin wrote, "and this makes it doubly difficult to imagine why they were left not just standing at the altar but locked out of the church."
In any case, some colorful figures remain from what is generally regarded as the strongest field in more than a decade. And since the old repertory requirements mandating works by a particular composer or from a particular period have now been lifted, these individualists are able to show their colors more fully.
 
A Touch of Audacity
 Frederic Chiu, a 28-year-old American, advanced from the preliminary round on the strength of an audacious program made up mostly of transcriptions, including his own flashy arrangement of Prokofiev's "Lieutenant Kije" Suite. Christopher Taylor, a 23-year-old student of Russell Sherman's in Boston, devoted most of the 50 minutes of his preliminary program to Bach's "Goldberg" Variations and included Pierre Boulez's Sonata No. 2 in his semifinal recital. Armen Babakhanyan, a 25-year-old Armenian, played Bach-Busoni, Franck, Berg and a "Poem" of his own composition.
Mr. Babakhanyan, a soulful performer who looks world-weary beyond his years, has become a strong sentimental favorite for having surmounted desperately impoverished conditions in his war-torn homeland. His participation was made possible by another innovation this year. For the first time, the competition is paying travel as well living expenses for all the contestants. Richard Rodzinski, the executive director of the competition, said that the change had been made in direct response to political and economic shifts in eastern Europe. "National agencies used to pay for travel to competitions," he said, "but they no longer do."
Generally, the changes in the Cliburn Competition this year seem to reflect a heightened sensitivity to the personal and artistic welfare of the performers. Competitions have been criticized heavily in recent years, both in principle, for treating art as sport, and on practical terms, for turning up the "wrong" winner. The Cliburn Competition in particular was subjected to intense scrutiny in Joseph Horowitz's book "The Ivory Trade" three years ago, and Mr. Horowitz went on to direct a sort of counter-Cliburn festival at the 92d Street Y in New York, presenting in recital three pianists who had been eliminated from previous competitions.
 
The Last May Be the First
 Mr. Horowitz was making the point that the "losers" of these events often have more to say than the winners. Indeed, the winner of the 1989 Cliburn Competition, Aleksei Sultanov, has received virtually no notice since.
"Time will tell," Mr. Rodzinski said of Mr. Sultanov's career. He acknowledged that Mr. Horowitz's criticisms of the competition not only produced a more introspective attitude on the part of the administrators this year, but also played a part in bringing about specific changes, like the lifting of the repertory requirements.
Whether the innovations will produce a better result remains to be seen. But almost everyone concerned feels that they have made for a livelier competition, and one that is likelier to present the contestants in their best light.
And who knows? There is still plenty of time and opportunity for some good old-fashioned mayhem and controversy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andreas Woyke of Germany, one of the 35 original entrants, testing a piano to be used in the Ninth Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth, Tex. (Ron Jenkins/The Van Cliburn Foundation) (pg. C11); Shirley Hsiao-Ni Pan after the performance that sent her into the semifinal competition. (Ron Jenkins/The Van Cliburn Foundation) (pg. C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FORT WORTH (TEX) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (59%); TEXAS, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONTESTS AND PRIZES; VAN CLIBURN INTERNATIONAL PIANO COMPETITION KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); 

PERSON: RODZINSKI, RICHARD; BIDINI, FABIO HARVEY LAVAN 'VAN' CLIBURN JR (94%); MORTON GOULD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



11 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
The Way Universities Profit by War Research

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:

The Cold War and American Science
The Military-Industrial-Academic
Complex at M.I.T. and Stanford
By Stuart W. Leslie
Illustrated. 332 pages. Columbia University Press. $42.
In "The Cold War and American Science," Stuart W. Leslie, a professor in the department of the history of science at Johns Hopkins University, takes off from the theme of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's only memorable phrase: his warning against the unwarranted influence of "the military-industrial complex." Mr. Eisenhower used the words in his farewell address on Jan. 17, 1961, just before leaving the White House, but its significance echoes to the present time of big-power peace. 
 Professor Leslie extends the Eisenhower phrase to include the major universities that depend on Pentagon contracts for their research laboratories: the "military-industrial-academic complex." (He credits Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas, an early opponent of the Vietnam War, for adding the word "academic.") The author argues that with the end of the cold war, there's even less reason for the universities to put their brainpower to work for the Pentagon and the arms merchants.
"For better and for worse, the cold war redefined American science," Professor Leslie writes. "In the decade following the second World War, the Department of Defense became the biggest single patron of American science, predominantly in the physical sciences and engineering but important in many of the natural and social sciences as well. Driven by the politics of national security and by the Pentagon's belief in the competitive advantages of high technology, spending for defense research and development surpassed its wartime peak (already 50 times higher than prewar levels) by the end of the Korean War, then climbed to dizzying heights after Sputnik, reaching $5.5 billion a year by 1960."
In the next two decades, the Defense Department's share of Federal Government research and development spending decreased, but this didn't mean that America's scientific professoriate was going out of the military business. The Pentagon's declining share reflected the fact that other agencies -- the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Institutes of Health -- contributed to ever-greater increases of the military presence in American science. The defense buildup of the 1980's, the author says, actually pushed military research and development spending past the record levels of the Vietnam War.
To prove his theme, Professor Leslie concentrates his own research on the two universities that profited most from the Federal Government's largesse: the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford University. But he also notes that among other universities, the California Institute of Technology, Harvard, Johns Hopkins (his own university) and Columbia (whose university press is his book's publisher) also received Government research-and-development contracts.
Professor Leslie writes that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology "profited enormously" from its military connections and the financing sources they provided. With this money, the university put together highly regarded engineering programs that were "financially and intellectually" successful. But even among those who benefited, there was a growing awareness that "the price of that success might be higher than anyone had imagined: a pattern for engineering education set, organizationally and conceptually, by the requirements of the national security state."
Stanford quickly caught up with M.I.T. in the contest of winning defense contracts for its research and teaching programs. "Electronics at Stanford, as at M.I.T.," the author says, "predominantly meant military electronics, from the actual hardware prototypes produced in classified laboratories to the most 'basic' theoretical research, which made them possible, and from the academic laboratories and classrooms that trained future electronics engineers to the local defense contractors that hired most of them."
Professor Leslie's book would have been stronger had he included spokesmen for the military-industrial-academic complex: Pentagon officials, defense contractors and professors who, rightly or wrongly, believed they were making a contribution to the national defense and economy in the cold war years. Even if one agrees with his theme that what was good for the Pentagon and arms manufacturers wasn't necessarily good for the universities or the country, the other side might well have been heard from.
Inevitably, the cold figures of cold war costs are lacking in authorial sexiness; they're about as exciting as Ross Perot's charts. That's one reason the subject of Pentagon and other Federal agency support for military research in the universities has not been adequately reported in the press, on television or in books. Professor Leslie deserves credit for opening up the subject. "The Cold War and American Science" helps tell why the transition from a quasi-wartime economy to the hobbled peacetime economy the Clinton Administration inherited is so daunting and necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COLD WAR AND AMERICAN SCIENCE, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; RESEARCH BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); WRITERS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (62%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; LESLIE, STUART W

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



12 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Guatemalan Leader Is Pressed to Yield Power

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, May 31

 BODY:
The opposition to President Jorge Serrano Elias's seizure of almost dictatorial powers grew more defiant today as the Government's isolation increased.
One day after military leaders backed away from their support for the President, prominent citizens called for his resignation, small groups of protesters again challenged a ban on public assembly, and newspapers began to openly mock the standing censorship of the press. 
 The country's business organization, citing fears of the economy's "imminent asphyxiation" by sanctions from abroad, demanded that he restore the constitutional order immediately.
Last night, as politicians predicted that the President was about to be forced from power, Mr. Serrano, flanked by the Vice President and Minister of Defense, spoke to the nation on radio and television, denying rumors that he would resign.
"This political problem has to be solved politically," he said.
After meeting with Mr. Serrano for a second time here this afternoon, the Secretary General of the Organization of American States, Joao Baena Soares, gave no indication that he expected the President to back down soon from the measures he took last Tuesday. These included the dissolution of the Congress and the Supreme Court and the suspension of basic constitutional rights.
But diplomats involved in his talks with the Government and its opponents said Mr. Soares made it clear that Guatemala could expect stinging censure from its neighbors on Thursday when foreign ministers of the organization's member states hold an emergency meeting in Washington to discuss the problems in Guatemala.
"Since the coup," a diplomat involved in the talks said, "they have realized that the international reaction against them has been much stronger and much quicker than they expected."
Even more than the cutoff of most of an American aid package worth nearly $50 million and the suspension of $100 million in aid from European countries, businessmen have panicked at a threat by the United States to withdraw Guatemala's trade benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences.
According to the Guatemalan central bank, 36 percent of the country's exports to the United States, or about $160 million worth, would be affected by such a step, but United States officials put the figure considerably higher. Tourism industry officials said they had already received a significant number of cancellations by foreign tour groups and others, but said they were still calculating the effects.
"If measures are not taken very quickly to resolve this crisis, the cost to Guatemala would simply be too high," said Mario Granai y Fernandez, president of the umbrella business organization, the Coordinating Committee of Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial and Financial Associations.
On the streets of the capital, the reflection of the Government's troubles grew more apparent. Two days after a group of prominent journalists had huddled in the basement of the United States Embassy relating their fears of arrest, scores of reporters marched on the National Palace demanding Mr. Serrano's resignation. The police did not intervene.
After refusing to publish since Wednesday because of censorship, a leading Guatemalan newspaper, Siglo Veintiuno, or Twenty-First Century, printed a blacked-out front page under the banner Siglo Catorce, or Fourteenth Century.
After editors at another newspaper, La Hora, made a show of refusing to accept any censorship, the police officers around its office simply dispersed. Members of the staff then ran through the streets, gleefully distributing the day's first edition.
A group of demonstrators who marched past the palace to the presidential residence were headed by the Government's human rights ombudsman, Ramiro de Leon Carpio, who was in hiding only a few days ago.
"This cannot go on much longer," Mr. de Leon Carpio said of the Government's suspension of constitutional rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IFSB (STO) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) IFS AB (50%); INDUSTRIAL & FINANCIAL SYSTEMS IFS AB (50%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA GUATEMALA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COUPS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WRITERS (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SERRANO ELIAS, JORGE (PRES); BAENA SOARES, JOAO (SEC GEN)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



13 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Pressure on Bentsen Mounts as Senate Faces Budget

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen vigorously thrust himself onto center stage of the budget battle last week, lining up a majority of House Democrats from Texas for President Clinton's economic plan, buttonholing and cajoling pivotal senators, tearing into opponents at a news conference and giving loads of advice to the White House.
Probably the best proof that he was in the thick of things was the photograph taken in the Oval Office last Thursday night: a beaming Mr. Bentsen stood between President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore as they telephoned Speaker Thomas S. Foley after the House approved the plan by a margin of six votes. 
 But now that the focus turns to the Senate, the pressure on Mr. Bentsen is sure to mount. Mr. Clinton tapped the 72-year-old Texan for the Cabinet with much hoopla about how his 22 years in the Senate, and especially his six years as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, would insure smooth sailing for the economic package.
 
Rattled by Questions
 Even though the Senate will not formally take up the legislation for another week, Mr. Bentsen and his lieutenants have already felt rattled by questions about why his legislative savvy has not been enough to steer the plan clear of Congressional dangers.
"Certainly, Bentsen hasn't been the front man as we expected him to be," said Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "That's the historical role of the Treasury Secretary, and we were led to believe he was appointed to play that role."
Secretary Bentsen declined to be interviewed for this article, aides said, partly because of concerns that he would appear defensive. But his supporters in the Administration and in Congress said in interviews that the President's economic package ran into trouble not because of Mr. Bentsen, but because of unpopular parts of the plan and because of the White House's failure to do a better job of selling it.
Indeed, one Treasury official attributed some of Mr. Clinton's problems to his failure to heed all of Mr. Bentsen's advice. When several conservative Democrats proposed a scaled-down version of the President's $19 billion economic stimulus package, the Treasury Secretary urged a compromise. His advice was rejected, and the legislation went down in defeat.
 
Trust the Leadership
 Since then Congressional Republicans have tasted blood and conservative Democrats have hesitated to rally round the President's economic plan, creating the need for last week's hand-to-hand combat to round up enough votes in the House.
On Thursday, the day of the House vote, the White House seemed to pay Mr. Bentsen more heed. When several White House officials suggested Thursday afternoon that the House leadership pull the bill because of insufficient support, the Secretary said they should trust the House leadership to decide whether the bill should go forward.
The White House listened to him, the House leadership concluded the votes were there, and on Thursday evening, Mr. Clinton and others in the Oval Office gave Mr. Bentsen a round of applause after the vote.
Questions about Mr. Bentsen's performance reached their height after two of his former colleagues who were among his closest friends in the Senate -- David L. Boren of Oklahoma and J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana -- declared war on the President's package, especially the energy tax. "It's particularly bad for my state," Senator Johnston said. "All the charm, persuasion and judgment in the world can't change that."
 
Signs of Compromise
 On Sunday, Mr. Boren indicated on the CBS News program "Face the Nation" that he might be willing to compromise, but Administration officials feared that many hurdles would remain before winning Mr. Boren's vote.
The Administration believed that if a Treasury Secretary with close ties to the oil industry embraced the tax, it would be hard for the industry and oil-state senators to oppose it. Clearly, someone miscalculated, and as a result Mr. Bentsen spent most of the last two months -- and will undoubtedly spend much of June -- cutting and trimming the energy tax to keep some Democratic senators from defecting.
Not only did the Boren revolt appear to be a personal betrayal, but it also meant that Mr. Bentsen was not even able to lock up a majority in the 20-member Senate Finance Committee because Mr. Boren is a member of it.
But some Washington veterans say the Administration had impossibly high expectations of Mr. Bentsen.
"Any foolish expectation that he can leave the chairmanship of the Finance Committee, move from the legislative to the executive branch and still yield the same type of influence over the committee is just plain naive," said Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic national chairman.
 
A Matter of Arithmetic
 Some Bentsen supporters say a rebellion was inevitable by at least one Democrat on the Finance Committee, where the Democrats have a two-vote majority. This arithmetic gives conservative Democrats a huge incentive to hold out against the President's plan since the last senator aboard can extract the most concessions.
"This is not a Bentsen problem," an Administration official said. "This is an 11-to-9 problem in a highly partisan context."
Some officials say that after years of independence as the senior Senator from Texas, Mr. Bentsen feels a bit awkward being a gear in someone else's machine. He sometimes seems to fear that if he grabs the spotlight he will be upstaging his boss.
But occasionally the Secretary is out of the limelight because he gets cut out of the action. That happened when Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, dealt directly with the President to negotiate major changes in the economic plan, among them lopping out the proposed investment tax credit and scaling back the increase in the corporate income tax.
 
Importance of Quiet Diplomacy
 Probably the best reason for Mr. Bentsen's lack of visibility is that he prefers it: he learned the importance of quiet diplomacy as chairman of the Finance Committee.
Aides say Mr. Bentsen devotes most of his days to meetings and phone calls with lawmakers, concentrating on Democrats but also seeking to pick off some moderate Republicans. He talks several times a day with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who succeeded him as the Finance Committee chairman, and keeps in close touch with every Democrat on the committee.
In a recent three-day period, for example, Mr. Bentsen talked more than a half dozen times with Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat, including two meetings in the Senator's office. Mr. Breaux, another member of the member of the Finance Committee, almost defected from Mr. Clinton's economic plan until Mr. Bentsen talked him out of it.
"If we didn't have him as Treasury Secretary, the package would not be in as good a shape as it is," Mr. Breaux said.
Mr. Bentsen, an expert as horse-trading, helped keep Mr. Breaux from joining Mr. Boren's rump faction by brokering a deal in which part of the energy tax would be refunded to petrochemical companies, a powerful force in Louisiana.
He also helped keep Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and another member of the Finance Committee, on board by pledging not to apply the tax to ethanol, a fuel made from corn, and by promising a smaller increase than proposed in inland barge fees, both measures that would hurt farmers.
Senator Moynihan has praised Mr. Bentsen's performance. "He's often on the Hill, which is new for Treasury Secretaries, who often stay in their Greek Temple and think deep thought," Mr. Moynihan said recently. "He hasn't been very visible. That's what has been helpful about it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



14 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of Clinton Speech At Vietnam War Memorial

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Clinton's Memorial Day speech at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial here:
Thank you, thank you very much. General Powell, General McCaffrey and my good friend Lou Puller, whom I did not know was coming here today, I thank you so much. 
 To all of you who are shouting, I have heard you. I ask you now to hear me. I have heard you.
Some have suggested that it is wrong for me to be here with you today because I did not agree a quarter of a century ago with the decision made to send the young men and women to battle in Vietnam. Well, so much the better. Here we are celebrating America today. Just as war is freedom's cost, disagreement is freedom's privilege. And we honor it here today.
But I ask all of you to remember the words that have been said here today, and I ask you, at this monument, Can any American be out of place? And can any Commander in Chief be in any other place but here on this day? I think not.
Many volumes have been written about this war and those complicated times, but the message of this memorial is quite simple: These men and women fought for freedom, brought honor to their communities, loved their country and died for it.
They were known to all of us. There's not a person in this crowd today who did not know someone on this wall. Four of my high school classmates are there, four who shared with me the joys and trials of childhood and did not live to see the three score and 10 years the Scripture says we are entitled to.
Let us continue to disagree if we must about the war, but let us not let it divide us as a people any longer.
No one has come here today to disagree about the heroism of those whom we honor. But the only way we can really honor their memory is to resolve to live and serve today and tomorrow as best we can and to make America the best that she can be. Surely that is what we owe to all those whose names are etched in this beautiful memorial.
As we all resolve to keep the finest military in the world, let us remember some of the lessons that all agree on. If the day should come when our service men and women must again go into combat, let us all resolve they will go with the training, the equipment, the support necessary to win, and, most important of all, with a clear mission to win.
Let us do what is necessary to regain control over our destiny as a people here at home, to strengthen our economy and to develop the capacities of all of our people, to rebuild our communities and our families where children are raised and character is developed. Let us keep the American dream alive.
Today let us also renew a pledge to the families whose names are not on this wall because their sons and daughters did not come home. We will do all we can to give you not only the attention you have asked for but the answers you deserve.
Today I have ordered that by Veterans Day we will have declassified all United States Government records related to P.O.W.'s and M.I.A.'s from the Vietnam War -- all those records except for a tiny fraction which could still affect our national security or invade the privacy of their families.
As we allow the American public to have access to what our Government knows, we will press harder to find out what other governments know. We are pressing the Vietnamese to provide this accounting not only because it is the central outstanding issue in our relationship with Vietnam, but because it is a central commitment made by the American Government to our people. And I intend to keep it.
You heard General Powell quoting President Lincoln: "With malice toward none and charity for all, let us bind up the nation's wounds."
Lincoln speaks to us today across the years. Let us resolve to take from this haunting and beautiful memorial a renewed sense of our national unity and purpose, a deepened gratitude for the sacrifice of those whose names we touched and whose memories we revere and a finer dedication to making America a better place for their children and for our children, too.
Thank you all for coming here today. God bless you, and God bless America.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton's appearance at the Vietnam memorial yesterday continued the war's history of protest. (Reuters); Visitors took a name from the Vietnam Veterans Memorial with them by making a rubbed impression. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (58%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; MEMORIAL DAY; SPEECHES AND STATEMENTS; VIETNAM VETERANS MEMORIAL VIETNAM WAR (93%); VETERANS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); CHILDREN (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); FAMILY (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



15 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2863 words

HEADLINE: Forsaken Frontier: Revisiting the Oregon Trail -- Last of three articles.;
150 Years Later, Indians Bitterly Cope With Results of Whites' Arrival

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PENDLETON, Ore.

 BODY:
The map of the American West in the first big year of the Oregon Trail showed a sea of open space, and carried warnings about the people who were living on much of it. The Pawnee, Cheyenne, Arapaho, Sioux, Shoshone, Crow, Nez Perce, Ute, Spokane, Cayuse, Chinook, Umpqua -- these tribes were as prominent as any landmark on the migrants' guide of 1843.
Moving west along the old Oregon Trail today, a traveler who wanders off the interstate can still find the American Indian bands that both sustained and threatened the wagon trains. The people live inside straight lines on the map, nations within a nation. They are mostly off the road and out of sight. 
 But there is an undeniable stirring around the reservations in this 150th anniversary of the Oregon Trail's first wave of migrants -- the trespassers, as some native people call them. For a select group of Indians, primarily those near cities, 1993 is the best year in more than a century, thanks to an economic renaissance that has come from the fount of gambling.
 
Economic Resurgence for Some
 Relegated to some of the least productive land in the nation and eulogized as a dying and defeated people, Oregon Trail Indians have turned to what some call their last best hope -- their sovereignty -- and have used it to build bingo halls and casinos. It has revived tribes that had all but disappeared, particularly at the terminus of the old wagon train route in Western Oregon.
But some of the larger native groups, cut off from gaming's lucre by geographical isolation or the moral misgivings of conservative state governments, are rummaging through their past in search of the key to an economic future.
These Indians, who live alongside the trail that brought disease and environmental ruin to their ancestors in last century, are using their treaties and culture as a route to self-sufficiency. Their efforts are the latest in a long line of attempts to bring some financial security to a people who have long had a poverty rate that far exceeds the national average.
 
Artwork and Treaties
 Dance, beadwork, jewelry, shamanistic totems, music videos of ancient rituals -- the products of a culture scorned by the settlers -- are some of the best-selling items in the Western tourist trade. But even the reservations that have profited from this trade have unemployment rates in excess of 35 percent.
At the same time, the treaties that guaranteed Indian access to traditional food sources are being used to force the Federal Government into a multimillion-dollar effort to bring back what used to be prolific Pacific salmon runs, which have been all but wiped out by dams in Oregon, Idaho and Washington. On the Snake River, one of the great fish highways of the last century, returning salmon have diminished to a mere handful.
Although some tribes are counting on the salmon's return to revive their fishing industry, it could end up being a largely symbolic improvement for many Indians. Nonetheless, the effort will have far-reaching economic effects on whites: The billion-dollar agribusiness that blossomed in the irrigation water from the Snake and Columbia Rivers, and the fast-growing inland Northwest cities that use cheap hydroelectric power from the dams, are facing rate increases and reduced water flows as the Government moves to return salmon to the rivers.
 
'Doing Without'
 "We have a lot of experience in doing without," said Antone Minthorn, council chairman of the Umatilla Reservation in Eastern Oregon. "So when they start shutting the timber down for the spotted owl, or cutting back on irrigation to help fish, that's what happened to us Indians long ago. We know what it's like to lose resources."
Mr. Minthorn wears a baseball cap with a Pendleton rodeo logo on the front and works out of an office with a large, faded picture of a Nez Perce warrior -- the tribe that fought one of the most remarkable series of battles in all the Indian wars, evading Federal troops for 1,700 miles in 1877. Every day, the consequences of those wars, the reduced reservations, the lingering distrust between tribes that sided with whites and those who fought, are felt along the old Oregon Trail.
"People talk about Vietnam veterans and post-traumatic stress syndrome -- Indians were born with that," Mr. Minthorn said. "We just got off the battlefield. It takes time for these things to heal. But they are starting to turn around."
 
Indians' Side of the Story
 The Umatilla Reservation, in the midst of the cowboy culture of Eastern Oregon, plans to build a $13 million historical center on tribal land next to deep wagon ruts of the old Oregon Trail here. Conceived as the largest Indian interpretive institute in the West, the center will tell the native side of an evolving story.
"It's a chance to portray an accurate history of the tribes," Mr. Minthorn said. "And it is an enormous economic opportunity."
In their diaries, the Oregon Trail migrants frequently made the observation that the Indians would soon disappear altogether. Contrary to the circle-the-wagon myth, there were only a handful of clashes between migrants and the tribes. The Indians killed about 360 migrants and lost about 400 of their own in recorded skirmishes, according to recent historical studies. The wars came later, after treaties were signed and broken.
The diseases brought in by the settlers were far more lethal than any shootouts. Smallpox, cholera, measles and other illnesses for which the Indians had no immunity wiped out up to 90 percent of some tribes during the 20 years of the Oregon Trail.
"The doom of extinction is over this wretched nation," wrote a Methodist historian, Gustavus Hines, of the Oregon Territory Indians in 1850. "The hand of Providence is removing them to give place to a people more worthy of so beautiful and fertile a country."
Other settlers wished the extinction would hurry along. Coming upon the bodies of three settlers, Jane Gould wrote: "Oh, it is a horrid thing! I wish all the Indians in Christendom were exterminated."
So it is all the more remarkable, to some Indians, that they have not only survived but in some cases even thrived.
 
Two Sides of Survival
Gambling Riches, Prairie Poverty
Further west of here, at the end of the 2,000-mile trail in Oregon, is a small cluster of people, the Cow Creek band of the Umpqua tribe, who have survived a century and a half of war, removal, termination of their tribal status by the Government, and loss of all their land. They now exult in the success of the casino they built in a small lot off Interstate 5.
"What has happened to us is nothing short of a miracle," said Susan Shaffer, chairwoman of the 841-member Cow Creek band. "We have pulled ourselves up from nothing. Something held this little tribe to the land, through all those awful years, and now we have a springboard to prosperity."
Indian gambling has taken off since enactment of a 1988 Federal law that allowed the tribes to operate any sort of gambling establishment that is allowed in the state where the reservation is. So if a church can hold a Las Vegas night, a tribe in the state can run a casino. The results can be spectacular.
 
A Packed Casino
 Up the coast, when the Tulalip Reservation opened their casino north of Seattle in April 1992, tribal leaders said they would consider it a success if they could provide jobs for 100 Indians. Now, three times that number have jobs. The casino is jammed every night with people playing blackjack, poker and craps.
The tribe is using its windfall to build a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center -- something that had long been promised but never delivered by the Federal Government.
But for some of the larger tribes near the Oregon Trail, those far removed from the cities, the picture is much bleaker.
Bands of the Sioux, fiercely independent in the face of waves of settlement and soldiers, figured prominently in the journals of Oregon Trail travelers. Now, about 18,000 Oglala Sioux live amid corrosive poverty on the short-grass prairie of South Dakota's Pine Ridge Reservation.
One of the counties in the reservation has the distinction of being the poorest in America, with fewer than 3 out of 10 adults having jobs. The reservation was the site of Wounded Knee, where as many as 300 Indians were killed by Federal troops in 1890. It serves not as a tourist bonanza but a source of enduring bitterness.
Like Indians elsewhere, the Oglala Sioux are pinning their hopes on gambling, and have announced plans to build three casinos on the Pine Ridge Reservation. But the proposal is being fought by some members of the tribe who are opposed to gambling for philosophical and economic reasons.
To the west, on the wind-scraped high plains of the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming, about 8,000 Northern Arapaho and Eastern Shoshone live on land without any functioning economy. A few trading posts bring in tourist money. Some Indians raise cattle on the barren ground of the 1.7 million-acre reservation.
"Right now it is really hard on all of us -- as bad as I've seen it," said Roberta Spoonhunter of the Arapaho tribe.
The one glimmer of hope is a bingo hall. But central Wyoming is nearly a blank space on the map, far away from state's tourism hot spots in the Teton Range. Travelers today rush through it the same way the Oregon Trail migrants did on their way to South Pass, the crossing of the Continental Divide.
 
The Nez Perce
Millions of Acres Become Handfuls
Indian country bordering the Oregon Trail was opened to settlement with the 1850 Donation Land Act, which granted each American family the right to 640 acres -- free. No lands had yet been ceded by treaty from the Indians to the Government. It was trespassing, or theft, in simple legal terms.
By the time the first treaties were signed in 1855, more than 7,000 settlers had already filed homestead claims on nearly three million acres, usually the best valley land with the most benign climate.
Forced from their homelands to the arid open-air prison of the Oklahoma Territory, some tribes rebelled and persuaded the Government to allow them to return to their ancestral lands. They were given oddly drawn reservations -- rectangles and squares in a world of curving valleys and winding rivers.
After another set of treaties was signed and the wars ended, Indian lands shrunk even more. The Dawes Act of 1887 allowed the Government to sell choice tracts of reservation acreage, whatever was left after each Indian was given a small parcel of the land.As a result, Indian land holdings went from 138 million acres in 1887 to less than 50 million today.
The history of the the Nez Perce of Idaho, once considered one of the most prosperous of Indian nations and a valued trading partner with Oregon Trail settlers, demonstrates the diminishing fortunes of Western tribes. They saw the Government's promise of nearly three million acres shrink to less than a million -- the main reason they went to war in 1877. The Dawes Act also took a toll, and today, 89 percent of the reservation's 760,000 acres are in non-Indian hands.
"That is why it is so important that we get some gambling going," said Julia A. Davis, a vice chairwoman of the Nez Perce. "We have no common resource base. What else can we do?"
In the Mormon-dominated state of Idaho, where gambling is frowned upon, the Nez Perce have not been able to negotiate approval for any casino operations. They have joined other tribes in a lawsuit against the state, using the courts in an effort to jump-start their reservation economy.
 
The Sho-Ban
Fighting to Revive Natural Resources
Some Indians say gambling is to natives today what the great bison herds were to past generations. The 60 million buffalo were perennial sources of food, shelter and clothing for the tribes that lived between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountain crest. A single generation of Western settlers wiped out the bison.
"The country before us thronged with buffalo," Francis Parkman wrote of his Oregon Trail trip in 1846. "They were crowded so densely together that in the distance their rounded backs presented a surface of uniform blackness."
Today, a shaggy-headed herd of buffalo, no more than 200, graze on the floor of what was once the Fort Hall Army post in eastern Idaho. Fort Hall was a rest stop and supply depot for the wagon trains. Now, it is part of the reservation occupied by 3,378 members of the Shoshone and Bannock tribes. Through allotment, the reservation shrank from 1.8 million acres to the present size of 544,000 acres.
Tourists gobble up buffalo burgers at the Fort Hall Trading Post, just off Interstate 15. They crowd the aisles of the store, buying vases, paintings, moccasins and beaded vests.
"Hey, we got a buffalo herd, couple hundred head, doing all right, and that's something," said Kesley Edmo Sr., the tribal chairman. The tribe would like to open a casino if Idaho would allow it. "We're sitting here in what is probably the Mormon capital of the world and let me tell you they are dead-set against gambling," he said.
 
Battling for Salmon
 The Snake River, traditional home of these people, used to teem with salmon that swam nearly 800 miles inland to spawn in the far reaches of Idaho, up to the Continental Divide. The Sho-Ban, as members of the tribes call themselves, may have lost two-thirds of the land promised to them, but they have used their 1868 treaty, in which the Government guarantees them perpetual access to salmon, as a powerful weapon of retribution.
If the salmon runs are ever restored in the Northwest interior, environmentalists say they will have the Indians of the Fort Hall Reservation to thank. They were the ones who started legal action against the Federal Government, forcing nearly a dozen agencies to put together a plan for saving the fish.
And if the salmon return, it will help the Umatilla, the Nez Perce, the Yakima, Chinook, Cayuse, the Shoshone and Bannock and dozens of other Indian bands that used to have a healthy fishing economy.
But the Sho-Ban are not holding their collective breath that the great fat Pacific salmon runs can ever return to the desert country of the Snake River, bordering the Oregon Trail.
They say they want just enough to revive a cultural ceremony that virtually every Northwest tribe celebrated: the First Fish ritual. A few salmon are caught and raised to the sky in prayer; it's a way of thanking God for a bounty that fed at least three millenniums of Indians. Biologists say they could be able to see enough fish to perform the ritual in three years.
 
The Eagles
Where Culture Is a Moneymaker
Culture, the past as guide to the future, is what keeps the Eagle family going. Full-blooded Lakota Sioux, Bruce and Marie Eagle and their six children live in a trailer next to a farm bordering the dry channel of the Raft River, in southern Idaho. They live where the Oregon Trail forked, the southern route going to California, the northern way pushing to Oregon.
The Eagles are farmhands on the ranch of Lyle Woodbury. On a hot afternoon, their pickup spitting up dust, they took a visitor out to the old fork, behind a fence on the Woodbury farm. Wagon ruts are still visible, though overgrown with grass.
"We find a lot of arrowheads over here," Mrs. Eagle said. "And there's some pictographs on the cliff there."
She was asked about the Oregon Trail sesquicentennial, if it was important enough to mark the occasion.
"It doesn't mean anything to me because I'm an Indian," she said. "It's just white people moving to Indian land. What are you supposed to do? Celebrate?"
But her husband said he was thinking about putting up a tepee, something to lure the tourists. And when they come, they will get to see the Eagles' 12-year-old son, Jay, a champion Indian dancer, the family's pride and joy.
After listening to Bruce, Marie amended her statement. She has been doing a lot of beadwork, and making dreamcatchers -- a woven object that is placed next to a baby's crib to catch bad dreams. In this year of the Oregon Trail tourist swarm, the trading post that sells her work cannot get enough.
 
Exquisite Artifacts
 Back here on the Umatilla Reservation, the culture of a nearly vanquished people has a similar hold on descendants of Oregon Trail pioneers. Sheldon Lieuallen, 68, has a cattle ranch on land he leases from the reservation.
His grandfather traveled the Oregon Trail in the 1860's as a 5-year-old. Mr. Lieuallen is a fixture among the cowboys of Pendleton, one of the last ranchers to drive cattle by horse to summer grazing ground in the Blue Mountains.
During a recent interview, he was asked if he had anything to show -- a precious heirloom or two -- from his grandfather's days in the last century. He went to the closet and pulled out a cardboard container.
Reaching inside the box, the Oregon Trail descendant beamed in pride and showed off his family secret: a pair of "squaw gloves," leather hand coverings with extensive beadwork, done by the Indians who were displaced by his grandfather.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Descendants of the Indian tribes that lived along the Oregon Trail carry the tales about the disease and environmental ruin brought to their lands by white settlers. Antone Minthorn, council chairman of the Umatilla Reservation in Eastern Oregon, stood next to tepee poles used on ceremonial occasions. "We have a lot of experience in doing without," he said.; William Burke, the tribal treasurer of the Umatilla Reservation, walks on his ancestral land, where his grandmother told him that she saw wagons as a young girl in the 1850's. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Map of Oregon showing locations of Indian tribes along the Oregon Trail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OREGON TRAIL UNITED STATES (97%); OREGON, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GAMBLING; CASINOS GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); MUSIC (70%); TRENDS (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); POVERTY RATES (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



16 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-9
 
REPRESSION EASING IN CHINA
Nearly four years after the brutal suppression of the Tiananmen Square demonstrations in Beijing, repression persists in China but seems to be easing. A1
 
DOWNSIZING A STRONGMAN
Life President Hastings Kamuzu Banda of Malawi has long occupied his own quirky niche: part African, part Victorian, part Mussolini, part Monty Python. Now his hold on the country is being challenged. A1
 

YUGOSLAV PRESIDENT IS OUSTED
President Dobrica Cosic of Yugoslavia was ousted by Parliament, accused of violating the Constitution. But the vote was seen as a maneuver by ultranationalists who perceive him as too moderate. A8
 
CAMBODIA CHALLENGES ELECTION
With vote totals showing a neck-and-neck race between Cambodia's ruling party and the royalist opposition, the Government has protested to the United Nations, saying there were irregularities in voting. A9
 
ISRAELI LEADER UNDER PRESSURE
With a Cabinet shuffle, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel put a political crisis behind him, but he still has to contend with criticism of his leadership style. A3
 
Israel allows a pilgrimage to Jerusalem by a Libyan group. A3
 
PRESSURE ON CHRISTOPHER
Despite the Administration's foreign-policy burdens, Secretary of State Warren Christopher says he's never been happier. A3
 
Churchill's grandson raises ire with an anti-immigrant speech. A2
 
Youth arrested in German arson, but protests continue. A2
 
Opposition to the Guatemalan President grows more defiant. A7
 
Hohenau Journal: A Paraguayan town that sheltered Mengele. A4
 
National A10-15, D10
 
CLAIMS OF AIDS BIAS
Faced with the loss of medical benefits that keep them alive, an increasing number of people with AIDS are accusing their health insurance plans of discrimination. A1
 
TAX ON HOSPITALS IS WEIGHED
The President is considering a new tax on hospitals to help finance medical care for people who currently have no health insurance. A1
 
PEROT ORGANIZATION DIVIDED
Ross Perot's political organization is in turmoil, riven by disputes that are beginning to cost it some of its most committed volunteers. A1
 
CLINTON VISITS VIETNAM MEMORIAL
The President, who avoided the Vietnam War, confronted his past and thousands of veterans at a ceremony at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, asking that the war "not divide us as a people any longer." A1
 
PRESSURE MOUNTS FOR BENTSEN
Even though the Senate will not take up the President's economic plan for another week, Lloyd Bentsen has already been rattled by questions about why his legislative savvy has not been enough to steer the plan safely through Congress. A11
 
AN ENTERTAINMENT MECCA IS BORN
Branson, Mo., once a sleepy Ozarks town but now a major vacation center, is a reminder about the gulf between those who presume to define culture on the coasts and those who consume it in between. A10
 
OFFICIALS WARN NUCLEAR PLANTS
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission warned 34 nuclear reactors around the country that the instruments that they use to measure the level of water in the reactor could give false readings. A10
 
TRIBES SEE ECONOMIC RESURGENCE
Relegated to some of the least productive land in the nation, Indians along the Oregon Trail have turned to building bingo halls and casinos, reviving tribes that had all but disappeared. A12
 
A NEW LOOK AT JUVENILE JUSTICE
Because of a growing belief among juvenile justice experts that detention homes encourage criminal behavior, Maryland and other states are turning to a broad array of programs, including boot camp and group and foster homes. D10
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A SUBURBAN-URBAN AGENDA
New Haven, like other old industrial cities across the north, is grappling with how to reconnect the city with the suburbs that encircle it, to become the equivalent of Houston, Phoenix and other younger Sun Belt cities that have grown by annexing their suburban areas. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-10
 
M.R.I. techniques makes brain an open book to elated scientists. C1
 
Physiology of champion athletes among the animals. C1
 
A question of conduct, scientific freedom and life itself. C1
 
A formula for when the world will end, or anything else. C1
 
A planned park in India enrages a group of longtime herders. C4
 
Planet X fades as the evidence fails to stand up. C8
 
Science Watch C5
 
Peripherals C6
 
Q&A C9
 
Personal Computers C9
 
Fashion Page B6
 
Beene looks beyond clothes
 
Patterns
 
By Design
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Chita Rivera bounces back. C11
 
Music: Cliburn Competition. C11
 
Recitals by two organists. C12
 
Dance: "Harlequinade." C11
 
More Balanchine. C13
 
Books: "The Cold War and American Science." C15
 
Television: Tame zoo, wild zoo. C11
 
Sports B7-13
 
Auto Racing: Restart strategy lifts Fittipaldi.B13
 
Baseball: Yanks rout Indians. B9
Mets defeat Cubs. B9
 
Basketball: Bulls beat Knicks and even series. B7
 
Knicks looking for seven games. B10
 
Sonics' Perkins smells title. B11
 
Columns: Vecsey on Jordan B7
 
On Pro Basketball B7
 
Hockey: Brooks resigns from Devils. B13
 
Gretzky enters prime time. B13
 
Horse Racing: Ibero wins Metropolitan. B11
 
Lacrosse: Syracuse takes N.C.A.A. title. B9
 
Sports People B11
 
Tennis: Courier outmuscles Muster. B9
 
Obituaries D14
 
Edouard Morot-Sir, ex-French diplomat and cultural emissary.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Nuclear peace for Pyongyang?
 
Janet Reno's independent stand.
 
Showdown on gay rights.
 
Mr. Colon, call home.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The constant hearts.
 
Russell Baker: Tonsorialitis.
 
James R. Kincaid: Purity, pederasty and a fallen heroine.
 
Bruce G. Blair: Lighten up on Ukraine.
 
Richard C. Reynolds: Make health reform work. Draft doctors.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C13
 
Chess C16
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MALAWI (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MALAWI (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); VETERANS (65%); ARSON (65%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



17 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Peace for Pyongyang?

 BODY:
Will North Korea try to build nuclear weapons or not? That will be the central issue when Pyongyang's First Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs meets with State Department officials in New York tomorrow..
North Korea raised fears about its intentions in March by denying international inspectors access to its nuclear sites and threatening to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. It needs to allay those fears now -- by remaining a signatory of the treaty and granting access to all its nuclear sites. 
 Pyongyang opened its nuclear reactors to inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency last year. But initial inspections indicated that the reactors had been operating longer than the North said, raising fears that it could have made enough nuclear material for a bomb.
When the I.A.E.A. sought a special inspection of the North's nuclear waste sites to clear up the discrepancy, Pyongyang balked and rashly threatened to bolt from the Nonproliferation Treaty.
Washington was right to remain unruffled and allow diplomacy to bring North Korea back from the brink. If Pyongyang allows international access to all its nuclear facilities, Washington can well afford to be magnanimous in meeting North Korea's concerns.
Pyongyang believes it has been unjustly singled out for special inspections. As a face-saving gesture, Washington can encourage South Korea to open its nuclear sites to international inspectors simultaneously. That could also open the way to mutual North-South inspections.
Pyongyang said it was disappointed by Washington's reluctance to establish closer contacts that might lead to trade and aid from neighbor states. Once Pyongyang accepts full inspections, it has every right to expect more normal diplomatic relations and the opening up of trade and aid.
North Korea wants convincing assurances that the United States will never again make nuclear threats against it, as the U.S. did during the Korean War and at least once since. Once inspections confirm that it is a non-nuclear state, Pyongyang would be entitled to such assurances.
But on one key wish the North Koreans can't be accommodated. North Korea may reiterate its longstanding demands for immediate withdrawal of the 36,000 U.S. troops on the peninsula. Such an abrupt change could raise tensions by prompting South Korean hawks to press their own Government to step up defense spending and develop nuclear arms.
Pyongyang would be wise to content itself with resumption of the gradual U.S. withdrawal and an end to the needlessly provocative Team Spirit military exercises conducted jointly by the U.S. and South Korea.
Pyongyang's choice is clear: Open the door to nuclear inspectors and improved diplomatic and economic ties or join the ranks of nuclear outlaws, deepening its diplomatic and economic isolation.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (84%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); MILITARY BASES (63%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



18 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Constant Hearts

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
The decision to pick a public relations man for three Republican Presidencies as the spokesman for the new Democratic Administration is an important step meaning one or more of the following things:
1. The public and press are just as stupid as President Clinton obviously thinks they are and have never seen a cynical political gimmick they would not buy. 
 2. Under pressure because of the nature of the Presidency and his own mistakes, Mr. Clinton is losing his political rudder and his ship is swinging to port and starboard.
3. He never had a political rudder.
4. The leftish messianic rhetoric, and matching appointments, are over.
5. Don't believe 4. In fact, with a Democratic Administration so rattled so early as to lunge desperately for a Republican spokesman, it's best not to believe anything for a while.
I am one of those Clinton voters who worry now about White House language and appointments that smell of class or racial divisiveness. Also: We resent being talked to as filthy rich exploiters of the poor as we work to pay off the mortgage.
We want Mr. Clinton to move forward by moving back -- to the center where America's future lies; we think. And that is where Mr. Clinton is telling us he is going by mixing a famous Republican adviser into his White House blend; we think.
But here I am with a sour face -- not because of the able and likable David Gergen himself but because of a matter of constancy, that lovely word. What does the President understand that word to mean, for himself, and the people he chooses to be close around him? If we do not know that, we cannot know him.
The Republican Administrations Mr. Gergen represented so well had specific positions that helped the country understand what they stood for. Among them were their positions on Vietnam, abortion, the rights of homosexuals, civil liberty laws, taxation, health care, government's role in shaping the American economy and society, military strength and spending, financial help to the cities and, perhaps most important, how to deal with racial divisions.
Certainly Mr. Gergen must have agreed with his Republican chiefs on most of those issues, close to all. How would any self-respecting senior adviser serve or speak for an administration if he did not agree so much of the time as to make occasional disagreement unimportant?
But on all of those issues, and a lot more, Mr. Clinton has positions ranging from sharply different to opposite. He ran on those differences. He was elected because enough people agreed with him, not his Republican opponent or predecessors.
Now Mr. Gergen will have to explain and defend positions directly contrary to those of his former bosses, Presidents Nixon, Ford and Reagan. Conversion and repentance are all very well but I trust he will be asked when they took place on each separate matter.
Each time, did he tell his Republican Presidential employers? Or did all these epiphanies take place since Mr. Clinton's election?
If he will not tell us, can we trust him as much as we did when he got paid for speaking for Republican Presidents? We are talking constancy -- not able and likable.
Mr. Gergen's constancy is not as important as a President's. If I had wanted to vote Republican in 1992, as I have whenever I wished, I would have done so.
But Mr. Clinton convinced me it was time for the Democrats to show their new stuff. Fool that I am, it never entered my mind that Mr. Clinton would come to think so much of Republican positions that he would select as his top spokesman a man who had represented them so well for years. If he had told me, I might have chosen the real thing.
Those White House kids are not fashionable anymore. They are taking the rap, good and hard, because the President did not figure out that he and his barber were still on the ground or wonder how come.
Too bad; I am more conservative than the kids but I was getting to like some of them. George Stephanopoulos told me no secrets, but he told me no lies. But of course people like that have to go -- they are so young and inexperienced they only know how to speak out of one side of their mouths.
But I will bet that George will never go to work for Dan Quayle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RACE & RACISM (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; GERGEN, DAVID; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



19 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: New Medical Technology Could Do You Harm

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Health Care's Fever: Not So High to Some" (The Week in Review, May 16) notes that many economists relate much of health care's cost to spectacular advances in medical technology. These economists believe most Americans will not tolerate cost containment at the expense of further technological development. But spectacular technological developments do not necessarily mean better outcomes and frequently are associated with worse outcomes than if the technology had not been used. 
 As Dr. William C. Black and Dr. Gilbert Welch elegantly point out in the April 29 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine, while "many patients have benefited from these advances, particularly those that permit the faster and safer diagnosis of symptomatic treatable disease . . . many patients may have been labeled with diseases they do not really have and many have been given therapy they do not really need."
How new technology can have an adverse effect can be seen clearly in the last two years in diagnosing what is called "early prostate cancer." This "early cancer," though biologically benign, has led to an epidemic of radical surgery and to an unexpected epidemic of incontinence and impotence before real benefits from such treatment have been demonstrated.
If economists are correct in stating that "at least half the increase in outlays has gone into new technology," they should be aware that at least 90 percent of the money is spent simply because the technology is there. The number of CAT scans of the head performed in the last week in our country at the request of patients who have a headache but want to be sure they do not have a brain tumor (most frequently not treatable!) could help reduce the deficit.
We are trapped by the technological imperative. We believe the use of technology is beneficial in itself. More often than not, technology is not beneficial to our health. If we understood this and incorporated into our health care system a means of using technology appropriately, we could begin to cover the 37 million uninsured and still gain from the advances of technology.
 
BERTRAND M. BELL, M.D.
Distinguished University Professor
Albert Einstein College of Medicine
Bronx, May 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHEAST USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH HEALTH CARE (91%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); PROSTATE DISEASE (69%); PROSTATE CANCER (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INCONTINENCE (51%); 

PERSON: BELL, BERTRAND M (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



20 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: China Makes Population Control an Ism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"China is a very big country with a very big problem: it has 7 percent of the earth's arable land -- and more than 20 percent of all its people. Today they number 1.17 billion. In several decades they will probably number 1.9 billion." Thus begins "China's Cruelty and Women's Rights" (editorial, May 21). 
 These figures do not imply that there is a "big problem" or that there is any problem at all, for that matter. Two-thirds of China's arable land is not being cultivated. And improvements in crop yield and infrastructure can also significantly increase China's food supply.
While decrying the cruelty involved in China's "tough family planning policy," you write comprehendingly that "China's population problem is indeed awesome."
You may find China's large population awesome, but with a population density that is approximately equal to that of Pennsylvania, China is one of the least densely populated countries in East Asia, and it is by far the richest in natural resources. It is also inhabited by the Chinese, a people who are by no means renowned for their incompetence.
Then why is China so much poorer than its neighbors? The disastrous social engineering projects inspired by Marxist economics did not improve matters. Now that the abject failure of these projects can no longer be denied, the Chinese planning bureaucracy must find a respectable ideology to justify its existence or, well, wither away.
And what ideology could be more respectable than population control, originating as it did among bipartisan Anglo-Saxon elites, largely financed by American taxpayers and enthusiastically supported by the most illustrious defenders of democracy and human rights, like The New York Times.
 
KENT GORDIS
New York, May 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; EDITORIALS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); WOMEN (71%); TRENDS (69%); FAMILY PLANNING (55%); ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: GORDIS, KENT

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



21 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
Image of Old Hoboken Recorded by an Invader

BYLINE: By Evelyn Nieves

DATELINE: HOBOKEN, N.J.

 BODY:
NORA JACOBSON began shooting Hoboken about the time landlords here started throwing tenants out.
It was 1984. The old port city was going condo. 
 Manhattanites crossed the Hudson like conquistadors. Speculators rushed in. Tenements and rooming houses, emptied of their longtime residents, became gold mines. And Ms. Jacobson, a documentary film maker, knew a saga when she saw one. She aimed a camera on her adopted city and ran with it.
Eight years later, she had the history of a phenomenon that changed life in urban America. Her film, "Delivered Vacant," follows the 80's boom to its bust, immortalizing a city in transition.
For the most part, the picture isn't pretty. Old sailors kicked out of rooming houses are left homeless. A populist Mayor dies in office. Tenement dwellers organize, but some give up and move out. Yuppies come and go. Some developers grow rich; others, trapped by the recession, go bankrupt.
Heroes are all the people who persevered. Which, come to think of it, includes Ms. Jacobson herself. "For eight years, I went to every single City Council hearing," she said. "I don't think people ever believed I was going to finish the film."
To critics, the two-hour documentary (which premiered last fall at the New York Film Festival and opened Friday at the Cinema Village in Manhattan) is like a 19th-century novel, full of depth, drama and characters straight out of Dickens. But to Ms. Jacobson, it's just a bit of Hoboken.
"When I moved to Hoboken, I found this little miniature city that had all the elements of a large city, but at the same time had a small-town quality," she said. "There is no other place quite like it."
Born in Norwich, Vt., and raised in Paris by artsy parents ("I guess we were hippies"), she moved to TriBeCa after film school in Chicago but couldn't make ends meet. A year later, in 1980, she migrated to Hoboken, a haven for artists that was already becoming gentrified.
To teach herself how to make documentaries, Ms. Jacobson began a series of short films on Hoboken life -- one at a sweatshop clothing factory, another on an Italian feast. "Then they started getting more pointed," she said. "I did a film about a Yuppie in her morning ritual -- putting on the suit and the sneakers to walk to the train station."
When Hoboken's first homeless shelter opened, she decided to focus on how and why it happened and started hearing stories about old-timers being forced out of their homes.
She became brutally aware that she was part of a tide washing over the city. "I started to feel a little guilty," she said. "I decided to make a long film about the change in Hoboken that I was a part of."
In the end, she had more than 80 hours of tape, and along the way she gained the trust of most everyone she aimed her camera at.
Filming was stop and go, depending on her cash flow. She was able to catch the building she lived in going up in flames, in one of many mysterious fires that cropped up during the height of the real-estate speculation. She became friends with Hobokenites young and old. And she began dating a tenants-rights lawyer, Ira Kurasick, who succeeded in having laws passed that protected tenants from being evicted. (He is now running for Mayor.)
Ms. Jacobson, who is 40, has also become something of a folk hero. The other day, she was sipping a cafe latte under an umbrella outside a restaurant on Washington Street, the main drag, and nearly everyone who passed stopped by to chat.
"If you live here and get involved, you really do meet a lot of people," she said after exchanging "How are you?" for the third or fourth time.
Next film stop is Jersey City, where she is researching the relationship between politics and public education. Hoboken might also be included. She also plans to turn some of her leftover Hoboken film into a documentary mini-series. "It'll be like the case study of a city," she said.
The Hoboken story has changed, of course. Real-estate offices still crowd Washington Street. Starving artists and well-heeled Wall Street types still elbow each other for room. But the real-estate frenzy has been largely forgotten. Hoboken, despite a troubled school system and a rowdy weekend bar scene, is alive and well -- which is more than most cities can boast. And people love it.
Some might even argue that the city has never been better. Ms. Jacobson's film is a reminder of the price it paid to get there.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
The Our Towns column yesterday about a filmmaker in Hoboken, N.J., referred incorrectly to a tenant rights lawyer who is now running for mayor there. He is Ira Karasick.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: DELIVERED VACANT (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOBOKEN (NJ) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; MOTION PICTURES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FILM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MAYORS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FILM SCHOOLS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); APPAREL MFG (72%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FESTIVALS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN; JACOBSON, NORA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1993



22 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: In Shift, White House Will Stress Aiding Foreign Concerns in U.S.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
In a break from decades of Government policy, the Clinton Administration has reached a rough consensus to give higher priority to helping foreign-owned companies expand production in the United States than to assisting domestic companies with output from their factories overseas, three Administration officials said today.
The informal understanding was reached by five top Administration officials at a secret meeting last Wednesday. The compromise addresses the questions of where America's interests lie in an era of heavy international investment and what kinds of companies the Federal Government should be helping. 
 These questions have become more pressing for policy makers now that foreign-owned factories in the United States, for example, produce 11 percent of all cars and light trucks sold here.
 
Shift From Traditional View
 The new consensus represents a shift from traditional American views on foreign investment, one of the three Administration officials said. For decades, the Federal Government backed American-owned companies in setting trade policy and other goals, regardless of whether their factories were at home or abroad.
The top Administration officials agreed that the Federal Government's top priority should be to encourage American-owned companies with their factories in the United States. But officials decided that the second-place priority should be to help foreign-owned companies with their factories in the United States, the Administration official said. The interests of overseas factories that belong to American-owned companies would be an even lower priority.
Last Wednesday's consensus represented an accommodation between Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the head of the Council of Economic Advisers, who took opposite positions during their academic careers on whether the nationality of a company's owners mattered.
In addition to Ms. Tyson and Mr. Reich, the meeting also included the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor; Robert E. Rubin, the coordinator of the National Economic Council, and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown. Each of the five officials also brought a single deputy, and the deputies later briefed the staff of the National Economic Council at the White House.
The compromise will be used to draft a road map for trade and commerce officials in deciding which battles to fight and where to apply scarce resources for aid to exporters. More broadly, it represents a reordering of priorities that will affect a range of issues in American trade policy and export promotion for the rest of the Clinton Administration.
The compromise also reflects disenchantment in Democratic circles with the Bush Administration's long and successful effort to persuade Japan to allow Toys "R" Us and other companies to open large retail stores there. The first Toys "R" Us store opened on Dec. 20, 1991, but less than a fifth of the toys sold there are being made in the United States, according to company figures.
Bush Administration officials have defended the arrangement by pointing out that it has also opened the way for Japanese corporations to open large stores in Japan. These corporations are generally more willing than small store owners to stock American-made goods. In addition, some small American toy makers that supply Toys "R" Us in the United States are now seeing their goods sold in Japan for the first time because they supply Toys "R" Us there.
A Clinton Administration official who insisted on anonymity said that last Wednesday's meeting also included a discussion of the difficulties of putting the philosophical compromise into policy terms. Participants at the meeting pointed out that it was difficult to determine what is an American company now when joint ventures and international stock investors mean that a company may have many owners in many countries, the official said.
 
Preparing Policy Paper
 The participants also discussed the difficulty of deciding how to regard an American-owned company with factories both in the United States and overseas. "It's a big issue that goes through a lot of our policy making," the official said.
As a result of the meeting, an Administration policy paper is now being rapidly drafted by officials from several agencies, another Administration official said. The policy paper will set guidelines for choosing the foreign markets the United States will try to open, the official said. The Commerce Department and other Federal agencies will use the same guidelines in determining which companies to help with information and financing for exports, the official said.
The debate over which companies to help will become even more significant if the Clinton Administration pursues an industrial policy of providing Government subsidies to businesses in certain industries, said Julius L. Katz, who was the senior deputy United States trade representative in the Bush Administration. Identifying the nationality of a company's owners is administratively difficult, he said.
Last Wednesday's consensus was reached at an informal meeting that lasted an hour and a half at Mr. Kantor's office. Because a few agencies, notably the Treasury Department, were not represented at the meeting, the understanding reached by the five Administration officials is still subject to a formal interagency review.
Mr. Reich, who was a lecturer on public policy at Harvard University, contended that American public policy should help all companies employing American workers, regardless of the nationality of the companies' owners. Ms. Tyson, an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley, contended that the nationality of a company's owners did matter, because a company was likely to keep high-wage engineering and management jobs in the home countries.
 
Discord Became Public
 The disagreement within the Administration became public this spring when a memorandum that Mr. Reich sent to President Clinton summarizing his views was leaked.
Last Wednesday's compromise does not represent a clear victory for either side. By putting American-owned companies with American workers first, the new position in effect says that the nationality of a company's owners does matter, contrary to Mr. Reich's position. But the new emphasis on foreign-owned companies with American workers also appears to reflect his influence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (64%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (64%); TOYS 'R' US INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRODUCTION; LABOR; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; FOREIGN LABOR PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (83%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); EXPORT PROMOTION (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



23 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
DOZEN DIE IN BOSNIA SOCCER RAID
After mortar shells exploded amid scores of soccer players and spectators at Sarajevo, the toll was at least a dozen dead and 80 wounded. Shrapnel-peppered cars, shreds of blood-soaked clothing and a worn-out soccer ball were all that remained of a neighborhood tournament. A1
 
GAINS FOR SERBIAN NATIONALISTS
Thousands of demonstrators clashed with riot police in front of the Parliament building in downtown Belgrade in the most serious anti-Government demonstration in two years. A10 

GUATEMALAN LEADER OUSTED
The Guatemalan military forced President Jorge Serrano Elias from office, eight days after he dissolved the Congress and Supreme Court. The military, political leaders and jurists worked out a settlement to restore democracy. A8
 
SECULARISM IN THE ARAB WORLD
In Cairo, Tunis, Amman, Kuwait City and perhaps, most surprising, in Saudi Arabia, which already applies one of the strictest Muslim codes in the world, influential Arab voices are openly advocating secularism, modernization and pluralism as values that must occupy their place alongside Islam. A3
 
LIBYANS CUT SHORT ISRAEL VISIT
Muslim pilgrims from Libya suddenly cut short their visit to Israel after calling for the overthrow of "Zionist leadership" and the "liberation" of Jerusalem. Israeli officials, some of whom had hailed the visit as a portent of peace, were surprised and outraged. A7
 
GERMANY PRESSED OVER MILITANTS
After the second fatal firebombing of a house occupied by Turks in six months, the German Government came under renewed pressure to crack down on far-rightist and neo-Nazi activity. A6
 
TV VICTORY FOR SPAIN'S LEADER
Convinced that another lackluster performance by Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez would doom its election chances on Sunday, the Spanish Socialist Party breathed a sigh of relief when the final televised debate of the campaign ended, with Mr. Gonzalez scoring a clear victory. A8
 
Cambodia Government sought revoting in four provinces. A9
 
Russia's Vice President called for end of Yeltsin Government. A5
 
Pogorelovka Journal: Resettling in Russia: a puzzling odyssey. A4
 
National A12-17
 
CLINTON NOMINATION IN PERIL
Senior White House officials said that the President's nomination of Lani Guinier as the Justice Department's civil rights chief would have to be withdrawn because of opposition in the Senate. A1
 
SHIFT ON FACTORY POLICY
The Clinton Administration has reached a rough consensus to give higher priority to helping foreign-owned companies expand production in the United States. A1
 
ENERGY TAX UNDER THE SCALPEL
After changes forced by lobbyists and lawmakers, the White House's proposed energy tax has become one of the most complicated revenue raisers in history, experts say. A1
 
LARGE CHANGES FOR BUDGET PLAN
The President conceded that he would have to reduce his tax increases and cut spending more deeply to get his economic program through the Senate. A14
 
STUDENT LOAN PLAN IS STALLED
The President's student loan proposal has bogged down in the face of lobbying and criticism of the White House's assumption that the Government can administer loans more efficiently than private lenders. A14
 
MACY'S SHOPPING NETWORK
Macy will start a cable television channel in 1994 to sell merchandise carried in its Macy's and Bullock's department stores. A1
 
COURT RULES ON JURY INSTRUCTION
The Supreme Court ruled unanimously that regardless of the evidence, a criminal conviction is invalid if the judge did not instruct the jury properly on finding guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. A1
 
The Court ruled on sentencing when guns are traded for drugs. A16
 
STATES MOVE TO LIMIT WELFARE
States have begun plans to place two-year limits on welfare benefits, borrowing an idea Bill Clinton popularized on the campaign trail. A12
 
TRANSLATING CULTURES IN CHICAGO
Karen Gunn is an unlikely diplomat, a black woman working for Koreans in Chicago, where Korean merchants and black customers have formed a nervous truce. A12
 
TRIBAL LEADER APPEALS FOR HELP
The leader of the country's largest Indian tribe went on radio to ask his people to cooperate with medical investigators searching for the cause of a mysterious illness that has killed 12 people. A12
 
CASTING A WIDER NET FOR ORGANS
Faced with a severe shortage of organs for transplant, some doctors are quietly turning to patients who would not ordinarily be considered suitable donors. A15
 
EXECUTION FOES FOCUS ON TEXAS
If the State of Texas has its way, Gary Graham will be executed before dawn on Thursday. But opponents of the death penalty say the case discloses serious flaws in capital punishment. A16
 
Education Page B7
 
Unwanted sexual advances are all too usual in high school, a poll finds.
 
Campus Journal: Bill Clinton's Georgetown, 25 years later.
 
At U.C.L.A., a Chicano hunger strike.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
O'CONNOR'S POLITICAL ROLE
John Cardinal O'Connor said in an interview that he might have gone too far at times in leaps of faith that thrust him and his church into secular politics -- from his implicit criticism of Geraldine A. Ferraro in 1984 to his loose alliance with Pat Robertson last month. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-11
 
Riding salsa's coast-to-coast wave of popularity. C1
At breakfast with T. Coraghessan Boyle. C1
The in-basket is a posh sofa, the secretary is a bellhop. C1
Chinese restaurants are adding herbs for flavor and health. C3
Eating Well C4
Wine Talk C10
Rieslings that recall a region's past glory. C11
 
Health Page C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
An overhaul at Juilliard. C15
How Garry Shandling blends reality and parody. C15
Portraying women in film. C15
Music: Critic's Notebook C15
The Pop Life C16
Book: The disabled fight back. C20
Television: "The Larry Sanders Show."C19
Connie Chung at the anchor desk. C20
"48 Hours" on talk shows. C20
 
Sports B8-14
 
Baseball: Cubs beat Mets. B9
Indians bomb Bronx Bombers, 15-6. B11
Basketball: Riley complains about officiating. B9
Bulls had time to regroup and heal. B12
Barkley leads Suns to victory in Game 5 out West.B12
Columns: Anderson on stars worth big money. B9
On Pro Basketball B9
Hockey: Kings take Game 1 of Stanley Cup finals. B9
Tennis: Fernandez beats Sabatini at French Open. B14
 
Obituaries B20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
A history of Gergenism.
Cambodian vote worth defending.
Wreaking havoc, selling sneaks.
Injustice in Texas.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: A fragile truce.
Jack Greenberg: Death row, U.S.A.
Gianni Vattimo: Finally, Italy revolts.
Chronicle B6 Bridge C19 Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: NEWS SUMMARY (NYT)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EGYPT (79%); SPAIN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EGYPT (79%); SPAIN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SOCCER (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TAX INCREASES (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



24 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances 24.91 in a Broad Rally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Emboldened by lower interest rates, falling gold prices and promising news on the economic outlook, investors pushed the stock market higher in all major indexes yesterday. The performance was in sharp contrast with Friday's session, when all major indexes plunged.
No stocks or stock groups dominated trading yesterday. But high-technology stocks like Microsoft and Intel and gambling-related stocks like Bally Manufacturing and Hollywood Casino saw their shares rise strongly in moderate trading. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, trading as high as 42 points above the opening, just missed establishing a record, closing at 3,552.34, up 24.91 points. That is only 2.49 points below last Thursday's record of 3,554.83.
 
 
Broader Indexes Surge
 Unlike earlier sessions in which the blue chips surged but the rest of the market failed to follow, yesterday's session saw both the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Nasdaq composite index rise sharply. The S.& P. 500 closed at 453.83, up 3.64 points -- tantalizingly close to its March 10 record of 456.34. At one point, the S.& P. 500 rose as high as 455.63 before falling back to its closing level.
The Nasdaq composite index, with more than 3,500 stocks, returned to the upward trend it demonstrated through much of May. The index, which contains many high-technology stocks, closed up 3.75 points, to 704.28. The American Stock Exchange market value index closed up 0.38 point, to 438.60.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.68 point, to 250.28. The Big Board had moderate trading volume of 230.7 million shares, compared with Friday's 207.8 million shares. Winning stocks outnumbered losers by 1,231 to 712.
Still, little has fundamentally changed since Friday. The market dropped sharply in large part because of the Commerce Department's reduction of its first-quarter estimate of economic growth, from an anemic 1.8 percent annual growth to a barely detectable nine-tenths of a percent.
Much of yesterday's trading was lackluster, with only a modest reaction in the morning to some mildly heartening reports on the economy. The Commerce Department reported that consumer spending was up strongly in April, and the nation's purchasing managers reported a modest expansion in orders, showing growth in manufacturing.
 
 
Took Cue From Bond Traders
 It took bond traders' interpretation of the economic reports as a signal of tamed inflation to rally the stock market. Starting around 1 P.M. bond prices rose in earnest, helping to nudge investors over to stocks.
Gold prices began to fall at the same time, strengthening the surge to stocks. By 3 P.M., however, the movement eased, possibly mitigated by computerized trading programs that were timed to sell when the Dow approaches a record.
Gold prices fell sharply and so did gold stocks. Gold for August delivery plunged $9 an ounce, to $371.30. Newmont Mining closed down 2 1/8, to 50 1/4, and Echo Bay Mines, the most active stock on the American Stock Exchange closed down 1, to 11 1/4.
Spectrum Information Technologies, the target of shareholder lawsuits resulting from its recent speculative frenzy, closed up 3/4, to 5 1/4. Spectrum was the most active Nasdaq stock, with 7.6 million shares trading hands.
 
 
Heavy Trading in Technology
 Other technology stocks also traded heavily. Microsoft closed up 3 5/8, to 96 1/4, in anticipation of a court ruling favorable to Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard in Apple Computer's five-year-old copyright infringement lawsuit against the two companies.
Intel was up 4 5/8, to 115 1/2, partly on the news that Hewlett-Packard was introducing a new computer with Intel's Pentium chip.
Shares of Affiliated Publications Inc., the owner of The Boston Globe, rose 3/4, to 13 1/8, on the New York Stock Exchange, following a report in Time magazine this week that The New York Times Company had made an offer to buy The Globe. The Wall Street Journal, citing unnamed sources, said Affiliated had rejected the proposal. A Times spokeswoman, Nancy Nielsen, said, "The New York Times Company has a longstanding policy not to comment on potential acquisitions or divestitures." The Times Company's class A shares closed unchanged at 28 7/8 on the American Stock Exchange.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); BYI (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INTEL CORP (58%); BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (71%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (71%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



25 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Business Technology
Macy plans a cable television channel to sell Macy's and Bullock's merchandise. Macy will hold a controlling stake in the network, whose other partners include Cablevision and Don Hewitt, the executive producer of "60 Minutes." [Page A1.]
A.T.& T. and Viacom will announce a market test of new technology to deliver on-demand movies, games and shopping services over cable television networks. [D1.] 
 The Time Warner-U S West deal to merge cable television technology with telephone service faces many glitches. [D5.]
 
International
The Clinton Administration will give higher priority to helping foreign-owned companies expand production in the U.S. than to assisting domestic companies with their factories overseas. [A1.]
Buildings bought by the Japanese in the boom of the 1980's are now worth a fraction of the prices paid for them, so Japanese investors are facing the prospect of taking big losses. [D1.]
 
Markets
Treasury securities were sharply higher, helped by a steep drop in gold prices and an improved outlook for the passage of President Clinton's deficit reduction plan. [D1.]
Stocks rose smartly, with the Dow industrials nearly establishing another record close. The average gained 24.91 points. [D8.]
Gold plunged as much as $9 an ounce and other precious metals also tumbled. [D17.] The dollar was little changed. [D17.]
 
The Economy
Manufacturing grew modestly in May after weakening in earlier this year, and consumers raised spending in April after staying home in March. Other data showed that construction remained in a rut and personal incomes were flat. [D1.]
The proposed energy tax has become one of the most exemption-loaded and complicated revenue raisers in history, so convoluted that diesel would be taxed at at least five separate rates. [A1.]
Proposed changes in the college loan system have bogged down amid a bank lobbying blitz and criticism that the Government cannot administer loans better than private lenders. [A14.]
President Clinton conceded he would have to reduce his tax proposals and cut spending more deeply. [A14.]
The F.D.A. wants health care personnel to report dangerous drugs and medical devices, now the task of manufacturers. [A17.]
 
Companies
 Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard were favored by a judge in Apple's five-year-long copyright infringement suit. [D3.]
Raytheon agreed to acquire British Aerospace's corporate jets division for $390 million, adding to its Beechcraft line. [D3.]
General Motors delayed remote-controlled sliding doors for mini-vans because of defects discovered during testing. [D3.]
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Kodak's Sterling Winthrop and Elf Sanofi of France will jointly develop and market two heart drugs. [D3.]
Cray Computer plans to raise up to $29 million from a private stock sale to finance its Cray-3 supercomputer. [D3.]
Telemundo, Reuters and British Broadcasting are talking about a Spanish-language cable news service. [D21.]
 
Today's Columns
Enthusiasm is rising for Allstate's $2 billion public offering, which is expected to be priced today. Market Place. [D1.]
A campaign by HB2 L promotes Donnelley's Carol Wright coupons for the first time. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); RTN (NYSE) (51%); GM (NYSE) (51%); SNY (NYSE) (50%); SANF (BIT) (50%); SAN (PAR) (50%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); VIACOM INC (58%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); RAYTHEON CO (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); SANOFI SA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TEST MARKETING (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); TAX LAW (68%); LOBBYING (68%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (65%); STUDENT LOANS (62%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (60%); JUDGES (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



26 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Guatemalan Who Grabbed Power Is Out

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, June 1

 BODY:
The Guatemalan military forced President Jorge Serrano Elias from office today with the backing of political parties, business executives and some civic groups. Eight days ago, Mr. Serrano seized nearly dictatorial powers with the Army's support.
As Mr. Serrano sat under guard and hundreds of demonstrators chanted at the gates of the National Palace for a civilian government, military commanders worked out a settlement with political leaders and jurists late this afternoon to restore democracy. 
 Under the settlement, they said, the Vice President will take over until the Congress that Mr. Serrano dissolved can be reseated. Then the Congress will accept the Vice President's resignation and choose an interim President.
It was not immediately clear who the new leader might be.
[In Washington, the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said: "We continue to hold the position we have held since this crisis began. We urge the return to constitutional government by peaceful, legal and constitutional means."]
 
Under Civilian Pressure
 Although leaders of the country's conservative armed forces were clearly in charge of the situation, it appeared that they had moved against Mr. Serrano only under strong civilian pressure and had made no effort to take power themselves.
The coup was thus unlike any other Latin America has seen, underscoring both the continuing role of the military as political arbiter seven years after it reluctantly gave up power, and the country's growing consensus against authoritarian rule.
"The armed forces didn't do this," a leading conservative congressman, Jorge Skinner Klee, said as he stood in a clot of politicians by the Defense Minister's office in the palace. Turning an ear to the cacophony of firecrackers and chants just outside, he shouted, "Listen to those people out there!"
 
A Constellation of Forces
 "This was really a constellation of civilian forces," he said. "All the military has done is to tell the President that they cannot support him against all of these people."
But such endorsements of the military, which ruled Guatemala almost without interruption from 1954 until 1986, were not unanimous.
Several important civilian leaders, including the Indian leader Rigoberta Menchu, the winner of last year's Nobel Peace Prize, seemed unhappy that they had been invited to take only a ceremonial role in the creation of the new government, and they left the palace before it was announced. Others lamented that only the military leadership had been able to force Mr. Serrano to resign.
Outside, only a few hundred people gathered in the wide plaza. Most seemed merely curious, but as word of Mr. Serrano's fall spread, scores pressed against the iron palace gates.
"Out! Out! Out!" they chanted.
The ouster of Mr. Serrano ended a tumultuous week in which the conservative President dissolved the Congress and the Supreme Court and suspended basic constitutional rights for reasons that are still not clear.
Mr. Serrano said his actions were necessary to cleanse Guatemalan politics of corruption, fight drug trafficking and keep the country's stability from being undermined by street protests against his Government. But many politicians and diplomats gave other reasons: the President's growing political isolation, his inability to push through economic austerity measures, and accusations that he illicitly enriched himself while in office.
Although military commanders initially supported Mr. Serrano's measures, they backed away as his domestic and international support disappeared.
Today, according to politicians, business leaders and others who took part in the palace talks, military commanders were acting essentially as brokers in negotiations among civilians. The negotiators included the Vice President, Gustavo Espina Salguero, congressional leaders and members of the Constitutional Court, the country's highest judicial body.
 
Appeal From the Court
 Flanked by the Defense Minister and the head of the armed force's general staff, and surrounded by dozens of other officials and politicians, the president of the court said at a news conference this afternoon that it was the court that had turned to the military.
The court president, Epaminondias Gonzalez Dubon, said he had asked the Ministries of Defense and Government this morning to carry out an order that the court had issued last Wednesday, nullifying Mr. Serrano's seizure of power as unconstitutional.
"The President continued to act in obvious disregard for the sentence," Mr. Gonzalez said, reading off a list of constitutional articles and laws that he suggested authorized the actions of the court and the military.
The Defense Minister, Gen. Jose Domingo Garcia Samayoa, then said the armed forces had "assumed the historic responsibility of its role" in response to the court's petition and "the clamor of the people."
He asked that diplomats who had resigned in protest against Mr. Serrano's measures return to their posts, and that civic, business and professional groups support the settlement.
General Garcia said political leaders, similarly "attending to the clamor of the people," had agreed to purge their ranks, presumably to remove from office some lawmakers deemed to be corrupt.
Politicians and businessmen involved in the negotiations for a new government and the meetings that preceded them gave a quite different account of Mr. Serrano's fall.
They said that after meeting among themselves, political and business leaders had appealed separately to Mr. Serrano to restore constitutional order, and to the military high command to force him out.
Three Guatemalans with close contacts in the military said that in meetings Monday, a number of military commanders, particularly younger officers, had argued for Mr. Serrano's ouster. Two groups of business executives forcefully made the same case to the President that night at the National Palace, people who attended the meeting said.
But rather than give in, several politicians said, Mr. Serrano offered bribes of as much as $28,000 to dozens of lawmakers if they would support a settlement under which he would receive amnesty and the Supreme Court that he had appointed would be ratified.
The exeuctives and politicians said Mr. Serrano's attempts to buy support, along with pressure from inside the military, had ultimately prompted the high command to tell Mr. Serrano this morning that he had to resign.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jorge Serrano Elias with guards as he left his office in Guatemala City yesterday. He was forced from office by the military, which was backed by political parties, business executives and civic groups. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA GUATEMALA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); 

PERSON: SERRANO ELIAS, JORGE (PRES); GOLDEN, TIM

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



27 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Skeptics and Lobbyists Besiege Student Loan Plan

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
President Clinton's proposal to change the way college students get education loans has bogged down in the face of a banking industry lobbying blitz and criticism of the White House's assumption that the Government can administer loans more efficiently than private lenders.
The Administration maintains that it can save students and the Government billions of dollars a year in interest and other lending costs by replacing "middlemen" like the Student Loan Marketing Association, or Sallie Mae, and making the loans itself through the Department of Education. The House appears ready to go along with the plan, but the Senate is sharply divided. 
 Opposition to the measure is forcing the Administration to negotiate quietly with a number of swing senators, and a compromise may arise around a gradual transition to a direct-lending system that could be reversed if savings do not materialize.
 
Possible Test Case
 The debate so far has focused on bank profits and the amount of paperwork and interest payments for millions of students. But some Congressional Democrats say the legislative battle over student loans is also emerging as a test case for the larger question of whether Congress will go along with other Administration proposals to enlarge the role of Government; for example, in overhauling the health-care system.
Congressional resistance to the President's plan is largely Republican but includes some Democrats. Bank lobbyists carry a lot of weight with senators who represent states like Nebraska and Ohio, where financial institutions that are active in the student loan market are particularly important to local economies. And a few liberals have joined conservatives in suspecting that the Administration is wrong when it assumes that it can save money by replacing the private sector.
Under the current system, the Government guarantees student loans. It also pays interest to the lending banks, at a rate 3.1 percentage points above the rate of three-month Treasury bills, while a borrowing student is in school. After the student graduates, the bank customarily sells the loan to secondary lenders like Sallie Mae, which collect the payments of graduates and sell loan-backed bonds to investors.
Mr. Clinton's proposal would eliminate the banks and the secondary markets from the process.
Congressional proponents of the direct-loan approach have tried to discredit the unusually intense lobbying efforts by Sallie Mae and other lending organizations as an unseemly effort to protect wasteful subsidies that guarantee profits and corporate salaries at the expense of students.
 
Battle by Lobbyists
 Typical of the aggressive lobbying campaign was an advertisement published recently in Cincinnati newspapers, sponsored by an organization called Ohio Students for Loan Reform and titled "Leave Us a Loan." Cut-out cards addressed to Ohio's two Senators, John Glenn and Howard M. Metzenbaum, urged, "Don't scrap my financial aid for an untested, Government-run direct lending program."
The advertisement did not mention that it was paid for by the Student Loan Funding Corporation, a company that markets student loans.
At a hearing of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee last week, Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, severely criticized what he characterized as the financial institutions' avarice. "This Congress has a choice," he said. "Is this going to be a students' assistance bill, or a banking and Sallie Mae assistance bill?"
In an attempt to link opposition to the Clinton plan with selfish lobbyists, the President wrote Mr. Simon a letter, for release the day of the hearing, that said lenders' efforts "to conjure up student opposition is just one more example of Washington lobbyists playing games at the public's expense."
But as other senators spoke, it became clear that there were grave concerns about whether the Clinton proposal would really save money. Several Republican and Democratic senators expressed concern that bank profits on guaranteed student loans, while perhaps high, were lower than would be the cost of adding a bureaucracy to an Education Department that several described as already inefficient.
"My concern is the creation of another massive Federal bureaucracy," said Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, a Democrat who is undecided on the issue. "We're moving from private industry to Government. I do believe that's a philosophical error."
Senator James M. Jeffords, a Vermont Republican who is a swing vote, said: "I question whether the hiring of 600 employees at the Department of Education will save money. It just doesn't make sense."
Madeleine Kunin, the Deputy Secretary of Education, argued that replacing the guaranteed student loan program with a direct Government loan program was the best way to "make college more affordable by making it easier for students to pay off their loans, through flexible repayment terms and lower interest rates." She added, "In the current programs, billions of taxpayers' dollars go not to students, but to 7,800 lenders, 46 guarantee agencies and numerous servicers and secondary markets."
As part of the Administration's deficit-cutting budget package, the proposed direct student-lending plan is intended to save the Treasury $4.3 billion over five years by substituting Federal borrowing for private capital. The Congressional Budget Office has endorsed the savings figure, but other analysts have expressed skepticism.
 
Assessment of Plan
 A report in February by the Congressional Research Service, an arm of the Library of Congress, concluded that "conversion to direct loans cannot be justified on the basis of either budget savings or increases in overall economic welfare."
When Mr. Pell wrote to the Congressional Budget Office recently to inquire about its estimate of $4.27 billion in savings derived from direct student loans, the office replied that the savings would be considerably lower under different accounting methods.
Robert D. Reischauer, the director of the office, wrote to Mr. Pell that after administrative costs related to the long-term collecting of loan payments and defaults on loans were figured in, $4.27 billion in estimated savings was reduced to $2.08 billion.
A senior Senate staff member who supports the direct lending approach said most nonpartisan experts believed that a simpler, streamlined loan system would save the Government $1 billion a year over five years, and $2 billion a year after that. "If Clinton can't win this one," he said, "how can he win health care?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; EDUCATION DEPARTMENT SLM CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSN; EDUCATION DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; CREDIT STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); LOBBYING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE (72%); BONDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



28 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Headache for Japanese Investors

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
They came, they saw, they bought -- and now they're stuck.
During the real estate boom of the 1980's, Japanese investors purchased or financed tens of billions of dollars of American property, including prestigious properties like Rockefeller Center, the Tiffany building and the Exxon building in Manhattan alone. 
 But now these buildings, like many properties bought at the time nationwide, are worth a fraction of the prices paid for them. And so the Japanese are now forced to consider the same unpleasant choices that their American counterparts have already been confronting: foreclosing on mortgages, writing down loans and thus acknowledging grave losses, or selling the whole mess to someone else, almost certainly at a loss.
 
Some Troubled Properties
 Among the most noticeable problems are these:
*The Mitsubishi Estate Company bought 80 percent of the shares in Rockefeller Group Inc., which owns Rockefeller Center and other assets, starting in 1989. While a mortgage for $1.3 billion on 12 of the center's buildings is held by a real estate investment trust, the trust's appraisal last year found that the buildings were worth only $1.2 billion, given a weak market. Their value could be further shaken by lower rents next year, when leases covering about 40 percent come up for renewal.
*The Shuwa Corporation of Tokyo has been struggling under $10 billion in debt accumulated as it bought the ARCO Plaza complex in Los Angeles, the U.S. News & World Report Building in Washington and other properties. Shuwa's banks are trying to assist it, but in New York, according to published reports, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has started to foreclose on an 18-story office building at 551 Madison Avenue at 55th Street that is partly owned by Shuwa.
*A bankruptcy plan for the 1,400-room Westin Bonaventure hotel, the biggest in downtown Los Angeles, was approved in December, after the owners, the Mitsubishi Trading Company and John C. Portman, a developer, defaulted on their $75 million mortgage. The Waterfront Hilton hotel in Huntington Beach, Calif., filed for bankruptcy protection last month after defaulting on its $57.7 million construction loan after the Los Angeles branch of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank moved to foreclose.
Japanese banks in the United States have seen their bad loans rise to 13.3 percent of their debt, from 5 percent two years ago, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. At the same time, the Fed reports, all banks in the United States, including Japanese banks, have seen their past-due real estate loans drop to 6.7 percent from 8.8 percent.
"It's part of a very sharp learning curve," Sanford R. Goodkin, principal of Goodkin & Associates, a real estate analysts firm based in San Diego, said of the Japanese experience with American property. "The learning curve says, 'Boy, this sure looks easy.' The second phase is 'Look what we own!' The third is 'Why did we buy that?' The fourth is 'Who bought that, and whose head can we chop off?' The fifth is, 'Now that we've got it, what do we do with it?' "
Yuko Takanaka, president of Takanaka & Company Investment, an investment banking firm in Los Angeles that serves Asia and the Pacific region, said of Japanese real estate holdings: "I think initially many banks were hoping the American economy would recover sooner, so they could hang onto them. But now many of them are having major headaches -- either trying to hang onto them, which will cost more money, or getting rid of them, which will be a loss of money."
 
A Bleaker Picture
 Japanese bankers, like their American counterparts, generally decline to discuss the situation publicly, citing the confidences of their clients. Yet some people who follow the issue say the real estate problems of Japanese banks are far worse than the Federal Reserve figures suggest.
For example, Jack Rodman, director of the Pacific Rim practice for the accounting firm Kenneth Leventhal & Company, estimated that the Japanese hold $200 billion in outstanding real estate loans in the United States, of which as much as half may be bad or going bad.
Leventhal, which tracks Japanese investment, said that from 1985 to 1992, the Japanese put $76.6 billion into United States real estate, mostly in California, New York and Hawaii. Investment peaked in 1988, when the Japanese spent $16.54 billion on American properties; the number fell to $807 million in 1992.
The news of Japanese problems may be greeted with glee by Americans who resented how Japanese buyers outbid Americans for building after building in the 1980's. Indeed, it is common for people in the industry to complain that the Japanese caused the overpricing of real estate by paying with a seemingly endless supply of yen. But that supply came as a result of United States-supported policies in the mid-1980's that strengthened the yen against the dollar to curb the American trade deficit.
 
New Pressure in Japan
 Clearly, the Japanese banks have been slower to act on their real-estate problems than their American counterparts. One probable reason is that Japanese banks have not experienced the regulatory and market pressures felt by American banks.
Now, worried by the fragile state of the Japanese economy, the Japanese Government is believed to be pressing its institutions to deal with their American real estate problems. The Ministry of Finance has realized, Mr. Takanaka said, that a failure to deal with these issues will mean "the banks are going to be handcuffed for a very long time."
Mr. Takanaka and Mr. Rodman said Japanese banks were also feeling pressure from American regulators as part of the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991, which was intended to improve oversight of foreign financial institutions in the wake of the scandal involving the Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
Mr. Rodman pointed to an agreement in January between the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and a branch office of an obscure Indonesian bank as an indication of how foreign banks might have to comply with American regulations. In the document, the Indonesian bank branch agreed to set off adequate reserves to deal with bad loans and to eliminate remaining bad assets from its books.
While Japanese banks were not mentioned in the agreement, Mr. Rodman called it "a shot across the bow," adding: "This indicates that Japanese banks doing business in this country will be held to the same standards as U.S. institutions. Given the philosophical difference in handling real estate, the Japanese banks are in for a rude awakening."
So where do the Japanese go from here?
"I think you will see portfolio sales by Japanese banks, if not this year then next year," Mr. Rodman said. "They're going to be forced to write it down. The regulators and the ratings agencies don't want you to have real estate on your books, and the market responds favorably to aggressive action. We think that will be a stimulus for the Japanese banks. They will either sell their loans like the U.S. institutions, or encourage their customers to sell their nonperforming real estate."
But Mr. Takanaka expects few mass sales. "They will be somewhat slow about the process, and they would like to do things quietly," he said. "Often, if you go and ask if the building is for sale, they'll say no. They'll never admit it."
One quiet way for Japanese banks to deal with their problem real estate was seen late last year, when a group of Japanese banks made public a plan to sell their bad loans to a new Japanese corporation that the banks would finance -- a large-scale, syndicated variation of the "good-bank, bad-bank" strategy.
 
Waiting for a Rebound
 Others say that the Japanese, like some American investors, will wait for a recovery in the real estate market. James T. Schaefer of Schaefer & Eckroth, a Claremont, Calif., accounting firm that analyzes the performance of Japanese banks in California, said the Japanese were sharply increasing their loan-loss reserves to deal with problem properties. "My guess is that they'll hold them with heavy reserves against them, and wait for them to come back," he said, adding that Japanese parent banks might take some bad loans from their American branches.
Some Japanese properties have already come onto the market, quietly. The Dai-Ichi Real Estate Company, which bought the Tiffany building at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street in 1986 for about $940 a square foot, has offered the building for sale, but at a price not far from what it paid, brokers say.
Across the street, at 1 East 57th Street, is a building Dai-Ichi bought for $55 million in 1987. It is now on the market for $75 million, said Peter Hauspurg of Eastern Consolidated Properties, an investment banking firm. He called the asking price ludicrous, and added he thought the building was "worth a little less than half of what was paid for it."
Ludicrous pricing or not, the decision to put the properties up for sale indicates that Japanese banks realize the gravity of the real estate problem and want to work it out.
"The aftermath of the bubble economy is pretty severe," Mr. Takanaka said. "You can't put a Band-Aid on it. You need an operation. The Ministry of Finance is telling these banks, 'Let's have an operation here and get it out of your system and move on.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese investors have been caught in the downturn of the American real estate market. A bankruptcy plan for the Westin Bonaventure hotel in Los Angeles was approved after the Mitsubishi Trading Company and a partner defaulted on their $75 million mortgage. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Property Problems" shows amount of Japanese owned, and all foreign and domestically owned property in California, New York, and the United States in 1991 and 1992. (Source: Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (84%); MET (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (84%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (84%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (84%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (84%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (84%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (84%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (84%); ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC (69%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%); METLIFE INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; FORECLOSURES; MORTGAGES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



29 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Admits Big Changes In Budget Plan Are Needed

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, June 1

 BODY:
President Clinton conceded today that he would have to reduce his tax proposals and cut spending more deeply to get his economic program through the Senate, but he held out the hope that his plans to put more money into education and job training would not be gutted in the process.
In a speech here, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that large changes in his budget plan were inevitable and set out five areas that he did not want touched. He asked negotiators to leave intact his goal of reducing the deficit by $500 billion over four years, to approve only those new taxes that affect the rich more than the poor, to keep measures for small business and for the working poor and to retain spending cuts. 
 Although he voiced support for his energy tax proposal, it was not included in his guidelines for the negotiators. The White House has been signaling its willingness to trim the energy tax increase and cut Medicare more deeply since the House of Representatives narrowly passed the economic plan on Thursday. The conciliatory tone has been praised by Senator David L. Boren, of Oklahoma, a Democrat who had vowed to block the package.
"We'll cut the taxes and have more spending cuts next week," Mr. Clinton said in his speech today, delivered before an invited audience at the Milwaukee Exposition and Convention Center. "But when we do, let's leave the money in there that will shape these children's economic future. Let's have the money for education and training, for investment in technology for help for the defense industries that are building down."
 
Jobs Are Paramount
 "After all," he added, "you can cut all the spending you want. If people don't have jobs, we're still not going to be able to balance the budget."
As Mr. Clinton left the auditorium, he said it was important to travel outside Washington to get a fair and uncluttered hearing from Americans. "I have to work in Washington," he said, "but you have to work outside, too."
The decision to make the pitch in this heavily Democratic but socially conservative city seemed to underscore the White House's desire to broaden the appeal of the President's program.
In a challenge to the Senate, which will take up his program next week, Mr. Clinton laced his 50-minute speech with frequent references to issues like welfare reform that appeal to the conservative Democrats he is hoping to win back to his side.
"This is a historic moment," he said. "Now that the House has passed this budget plan to reduce the deficit and to target investments in our future, and it's going to the Senate for further debate, we can make a decision to seize control of our economic destiny."
Passing his budget, Mr. Clinton said, would be a sign that members of Congress are willing "to try to find bipartisan responsibility in place of bipartisan blame and irresponsibility."
In the face of criticism from moderates in his own party and independents like Ross Perot, Mr. Clinton has been furiously maneuvering back toward the center of the political spectrum in recent days, even going so far as to add David R. Gergen, a longtime adviser to Republican Presidents, to his White House staff.
He continued on that path today, saying he favored "not entitlement, not abandonment, but empowerment."
Mr. Clinton was warmly received here today, but the latest CBS News poll showed that the public's optimism over his economic plan faded in the last several months. Only 28 percent of Americans now say the Clinton economic plan, if adopted, "will help the national economy" in the next few years. At the time the plan was proposed in February, 53 percent expressed such optimism.
Further, the poll now found that just 37 percent said 'yes' when asked if plan "is fair to people you." In February, 59 percent perceived such fairness.
The new CBS News poll was conducted Thursday through Saturday with 1,184 adults. The nationwide telephone poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The passage of Mr. Clinton's economic plan by the House did not immediately improve the President's standing with the public. In the CBS News poll, 37 percent of Americans approved of the way Mr. Clinton is handling his job as President, while 49 percent disapproved. Two other national polls, by Newsweek and Time magazine, taken just before the vote in the House, measured his job approval at a statistically indistinguishable 36 percent.
This level of job approval means Mr. Clinton's overall standing with the public at this point in his term is the lowest of all Presidents since World War II, when measured at the equivalent point in their terms by the Gallup poll.
When asked specifically about Mr. Clinton's handling of the economy, 33 percent in the CBS News poll approved, while 55 percent disapproved.
Although the President's remarks today were clearly aimed at a mainstream Midwestern audience, he refrained from the Washington-bashing that had lately become a hallmark of such trips. Even when he offered criticism of Congress, it was muted.
 
No Faith in Bureaucracy
 "Some, but not all, in the national Democratic Party placed too much faith in the whole politics of entitlement, the idea that big bureaucracies and government spending demanding nothing in return can produce the results we want," he said. "We know that is simply not true.
"On the other hand, some, but not all, in the national Republican Party have practiced the politics of abandonment, of walking away from common concerns like dropping test scores or rising crime rates or insufficient infrastructure or taking care of the people who won the cold war for us and now don't have anything to do in the wake of defense cutbacks.
"Well, that's not right either."
Mr. Clinton also offered a lengthy critique of Reaganomics, normally a standard feature of his talks but one that took on a different flavor given his recent decision to hire Mr. Gergen.
"I think it's fair to say that the only reason I was elected in 1992 is that the American people thought that it hadn't worked very well, and that there were problems," he said of the 12 years of Republican governance. "While the Government was used as punching bag -- everybody talked against big Government -- nobody ever really did anything fundamentally to reform the way it operates."
The President is still smarting under the weight of a heavy dose of critical assessment. The cover of Time magazine featured an inch-high President with a stark, bold headline that said, "The Incredible Shrinking President." And Newsweek magazine countered with a photograph of a troubled Mr. Clinton and a headline reading, "What's Wrong?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton greeting supporters at the Milwaukee Exposition and Convention Center after he spoke about his economic package. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS BUDGETS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); APPROVALS (76%); CONSERVATISM (60%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



30 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Raytheon Will Acquire Jet Business

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
In a bid to broaden its product offerings in the business jet market, the Raytheonn Company said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire British Aerospace's Corporate Jets division for $390 million.
Like many large corporations that have been seeking to spin off noncore operations and focus more intensely on what they think they do best, British Aerospace has been trying to sell the division for some time as part of a six-year-old restructuring effort. 
 Raytheon, based in Lexington, Mass., makes Beechcraft turboprops and small jets, and believes British Aerospace's longer-range business jets will complement its current line-up of shorter-range corporate jets.
 
 
'Into the Core'
 "It puts the company powerfully into the core of the corporate aircraft market," Wolfgang H. Demisch, an analyst at UBS Securities, said.
The companies started discussing a sale more than a year ago, but talks broke off for a number of reasons. Sources familiar with the latest talks said sticky issues that were finally resolved included not only price and protection against currency fluctuations, but also employment assurances for some British Aerospace workers.
According to the agreement, for example, British Aerospace will supply the major subassemblies for its 125-800 and 125-1000 models for at least three years.
If the deal is approved by industry regulators in each country, the acquisition will increase Raytheon's annual sales in the corporate jet market by roughly 35 percent, to more than $1.7 billion. In 1992, the sales of the division rose 14 percent, and it reported an operating profit of $140 million. The British Aerospace division recorded a small profit for last year of about $9 million on sales of about $450 million.
Analysts described the agreed-to price as fair, but no bargain for Raytheon. The acquisition gives Raytheon a running start in a new product line, while eliminating a potential competitor. Raytheon's challenge, however, will be to make the division sufficiently profitable that it can reinvest in the product upgrades that are required to remain competitive in the corporate aircraft business.
 
 
'Open Question'
 The outlook for that market is "an open question," according to Jack Modzelewski of Paine Webber. While some industry analysts have been surprised by the market's ability to weather the recession in recent years, it remains unclear whether large companies will feel the itch for new corporate aircraft once their fortunes improve.
Raytheon has not been decided whether the new aircraft will maintain a separate identity or be folded into the Beechcraft line.
As part of the deal, Raytheon will acquire Arkansas Aerospace Inc., a British Aerospace subsidiary in Little Rock, Ark., that customizes business jets and maintains airplanes.
Raytheon, a diversified company perhaps best known for its Patriot missiles, operates its Beech Aircraft division in Wichita, Kan. Raytheon's stock closed at $55.625 yesterday, up 75 cents, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (90%); BA (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AEROSPACE PLC; RAYTHEON CO RAYTHEON CO (90%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AEROSPACE PLC; RAYTHEON CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ACQUISITIONS (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPROVALS (65%); CURRENCIES (52%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



31 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
High Court Defines One Error by Judges It Will Not Tolerate

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Overturning a murder conviction, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously today that regardless of the evidence, a criminal conviction is invalid if the judge did not instruct the jury properly on finding guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
In an opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia, the Court held that mistaken jury instructions on reasonable doubt could never be disregarded as "harmless error," even if it appeared that the guilty verdict was not the product of the mistake. 
 In recent years the Court has expanded the category of errors -- committed either before or during trial -- that can be disregarded as harmless if the evidence of guilt is otherwise clear.
Two years ago, for example, the Court characterized coerced or involuntary confessions as harmless errors after such confessions had previously been treated as automatically invalidating a conviction. The Court was bitterly divided in that 5-to-4 decision, Arizona v. Fulminante, and it was unclear how much further the Court would be willing to go.
The decision today indicated at least an outer boundary to the harmless-error doctrine. Justice Scalia said a jury's understanding of the burden of proof -- guilt beyond a reasonable doubt -- was so central to the trial itself that a faulty understanding deprived defendants of the right to trial by jury, "without which a criminal trial cannot reliably serve its function."
The decision, Sullivan v. Louisiana, No. 92-5129, overturned a decision last year by the Louisiana Supreme Court. There was no dispute in the case that instructions on reasonable doubt given to the jury in a 1980 murder trial were erroneous. The only issue was whether the faulty instructions could be viewed as harmless error.
The instructions, once widely used in Louisiana, were declared unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in another Louisiana case three years ago. The Court found that by using such phrases as "grave uncertainty" or "substantial doubt," the instructions failed to make clear that the state has the heavy burden of proving guilt "beyond a reasonable doubt."
In the case before the Court today, the Louisiana Supreme Court had upheld the conviction of John L. Sullivan for killing another man during an armed robbery in a New Orleans bar. The state court ruled that while the instructions were invalid, the error was harmless. Mr. Sullivan had initially been sentenced to death, but the state court set aside the sentence on other grounds.
In his opinion today, Justice Scalia said that once a jury had been instructed improperly on reasonable doubt, that error could not be harmless. The error is structural, he said, with effects on the verdict that cannot be measured or cured.
He said it was as if there had been no jury verdict at all. "There being no jury verdict of guilty-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt, the question whether the same verdict of guilty-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt would have been rendered absent the constitutional error is utterly meaningless," he said. "A reviewing court can only engage in pure speculation -- its view of what a reasonable jury would have done."
But because the right to trial by jury is constitutionally guaranteed, judges cannot arrive at their own verdict of guilt, Justice Scalia said.
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, the author of the opinion two years ago that placed coerced confessions in the harmless-error category, joined Justice Scalia's opinion with a concurring opinion that struck a distinctly reluctant tone. "Harmless-error review has become an integral component of our criminal justice system," the Chief Justice said. He added that he had "lingering doubts" about whether to treat deficient jury instructions on reasonable doubt as "a breed apart."
The Court also took action on these other cases:
 
Cable Regulation
 The Court upheld a provision of a Federal law on the authority of local governments to regulate cable television.
Under the 1984 law, private cable systems that draw signals to an apartment building or group of buildings by satellite dish are regulated differently, depending on whether the buildings share common ownership. Systems serving a single building or commonly owned buildings are exempt from the requirement of obtaining a local franchise, while systems using the same technology but serving a number of buildings with different owners are subject to the same franchise requirements as any other cable system.
Last year, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit declared the distinction unconstitutional, on the ground that it violated the equal protection rights of the systems serving the buildings with different owners. The appeals court's decision was a provocative one that drew attention from beyond the narrow world of cable regulation, because it departed from the Federal courts' general view that the Constitution should not be invoked to overturn economic regulations.
The Supreme Court reversed the appeals court's decision today in an opinion by Justice Clarence Thomas. The vote was 9 to 0, with seven Justices joining Justice Thomas and Justice John Paul Stevens writing a separate concurring opinion.
"Equal protection is not a license for courts to judge the wisdom, fairness, or logic of legislative choices," Justice Thomas said. He added that the distinction between the cable systems should be upheld as rational as long as there was any theoretical basis for it. The opinion cited several possible reasons for the distinction. "A legislative choice is not subject to courtroom fact-finding and may be based on rational speculation unsupported by evidence or empirical data," Justice Thomas said.
The case was Federal Communications Commission v. Beach Communications, No. 92-603.
 
Vanna White May Sue
 Without comment, the Court let stand a ruling that permits the game show hostess Vanna White to sue an electronics company and its advertising agency for infringing her "right of publicity" through a television commercial that the company said was a harmless parody, protected by the First Amendment.
The commercial for videocassette recorders made by Samsung Electronics showed a robot, dressed as Ms. White and wearing a blond wig, on a set resembling her "Wheel of Fortune" game show. Her lawsuit, filed in Federal court in California, asserted that the company had appropriated her public image without her permission. The suit said the advertisement had no constitutional protection.
The district court dismissed her suit, but the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, reinstated it last year. "The difference between a 'parody' and a 'knock-off' is the difference between fun and profit," the appeals court said. The case is Samsung Electronics v. White, No. 92-1629.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) JOHN L SULLIVAN CHEVROLET GEO (52%); LOUISIANA SUPREME COURT (54%); LOUISIANA SUPREME COURT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) LOUISIANA SUPREME COURT (54%); LOUISIANA SUPREME COURT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; JURY SYSTEM; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; COURTS; JUDGES; TRIALS JURY TRIALS (93%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (93%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); EVIDENCE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); BURDENS OF PROOF (78%); SENTENCING (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ROBBERY (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; SCALIA, ANTONIN (ASSOC JUSTICE) ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



32 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Campus Journal;
Georgetown of Clinton, Meet Georgetown Today

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
On June 5, members of Georgetown University's class of 1968 will celebrate their 25th reunion at the White House at the invitation of their classmate Bill Clinton.
For the rest of the homecoming weekend, the class members will have plenty of time to get reacquainted with one other and the university they left 25 years ago. They will have changed, but probably not nearly so much as their alma mater. 
 They will find, for example, that that more than half of the undergraduates in this once exclusively male institution are now women; that some new students are not aware that Georgetown is a Roman Catholic university until after they arrive; that there is now a pregnancy hot line; that residence hall staff members, whose job used to be to make sure that lights were out at 11 P.M., are now trained to watch for eating disorders and suicidal tendencies.
The '68 alumni will also find that students today are more mature and self-assured and better educated than many were 25 years ago despite being subject to economic and competitive pressures that the alumni never knew. They will find students who have to hold jobs to pay for tuition but who still find time to tutor inner-city children and to campaign for feminist and gay causes.
"Georgetown is a different place; Washington is a different place," said the Rev. Robert Brooks Lawton, the dean of Georgetown College. "Both are more sophisticated, more international, more mature."
Much of the change, students and faculty members agree, was wrought by the Rev. Timothy S. Healy, the late Jesuit priest who was president from 1976 to 1989. His red-brick accomplishments are there for all to see: dormitories, classroom buildings, a student center, new academic buildings and additions to the medical school and the law school. When Bill Clinton arrived in 1964, the campus had 34 buildings; today it has 86.
More important, Georgetown people say, Father Healy invested the university with academic excellence. "He revived intellectualism here," said Rob Pegoraro, a graduating senior from Tewksbury Township, N.J. "He was the first to push the university as one of the best in the country."
In the mid-1960's, Bill Clinton, a Protestant from the Deep South, was in a distinct minority at Georgetown, which was still a relatively exclusive Catholic university for men. Women were admitted to the Schools of Foreign Service, Nursing, and Languages and Linguistics, but the university did not become fully coeducational until 1969, when Georgetown College admitted women.
Once attended mostly by people from the mid-Atlantic region, Georgetown's 12,000 students today come from all 50 states and 100 countries. Twenty percent are members of minorities, and almost 10 percent are from outside the United States.
In a way, this is a return to the goals set by Georgetown's founder, Archbishop John Carroll, in 1789. "He wanted citizens from every class," said the university's current president, the Rev. Leo J. O'Donovan. "Those early classes had the sons of plantation owners and sons of women who took in washing to pay the fees. And at Carroll's insistence, they came from every religion."
Jodi Padnick, the editor of The Hoya, the twice-a-week undergraduate newspaper, is one of about 400 Jewish students. "Some of the Jewish kids act as if they're not Jewish," she said, "but a lot of us think that attending a Catholic school makes us feel more Jewish. We feel we need to learn more about Israel, about what we believe. I think it makes us stronger."
Like most students, Ms. Padnick, a junior from Paradise Valley, Ariz, said there was never any effort on the university's part to impose Catholic values. Every student must take a course called "The Problem of God," but it is taught by laymen and chaplains of all the major faiths.
The traditional Jesuit presence on campus is now spread thin, with the number of priests down to 40. "The Catholic influence is more implicit than overt," Father Lawton said. "The Jesuit influence is seen in the general atmosphere. Whatever the subject being taught, we try to talk about the question of values, of ethics, of ultimate meanings."
But there is concern, even among students, that the university is too materialistic. "It's not as tense as some Eastern schools," Ms. Padnick said, "but there is a lot of competition. All anyone thinks about is going to law school."
University figures show that about 30 percent of each graduating class goes directly to graduate school, with 70 percent to 90 percent indicating plans to go eventually.
Students also express considerable concern about money, and about 40 percent receive some kind of student aid. Others work one or two jobs to help pay tuition and fees of about $24,000 a year. In 1964, when Bill Clinton here, those fees were $2,450 for men, $50 more for women.
Speaking of today's students, Renee DeVigne, the interim dean of students, said: "There is a lot of anxiety. They work hard because they are worried about the economy and the problem of meeting even their parent's level of success. The old idea of always doing better has changed. They see themselves struggling to stay in the middle class."
Father Lawton added: "They do work hard, but they are involved in so many things. They are juggling studies, community service, jobs, internships and social life."
At any given time, several hundred Georgetown students are serving internships in Congress or in Federal agencies and departments. Such internships are eagerly sought by students heading for law school and planning careers in the public sector, and they highlight the symbiotic relationship between Georgetown and the Federal Government.
That link gives the university a special position among American institutions of higher learning. "It's a difference that counts," one student said. "Otherwise you might as well go to Duke or Brown."
Another student was even more specific, saying: "In the Middle West, you have to demonstrate to make a point. Here you can go work in the Government and actually get something done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Georgetown University's 12,000 students come from 100 countries and all 50 states. Twenty percent are members of minorities, and almost 10 percent are from outside the United States. (Tracey Attlee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (94%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (94%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; WOMEN STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); LINGUISTICS (60%); EATING DISORDERS (53%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAWTON, ROBERT BROOKS (REV) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



33 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Enthusiasm Builds Strongly For Allstate Public Offering

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Money managers and analysts were talking with rising enthusiasm yesterday about the imminent initial public offering of the Allstate Company. The sale, expected to raise more than $2 billion, would be the largest initial public offering ever in the United States.
The company, the nation's second- largest insurer of homes and automobiles, is being spun off to the public by Sears, Roebuck & Company, which is shedding financial services assets to focus on its retail operations. 
 People familiar with the offering said the stock was expected to be priced this evening after the market closed. They expected the offering price to be near $27 a share, in the upper range of what Sears announced in its prospectus.
Yesterday, at a closed presentation to investors at the New York Palace Hotel, the ballroom was so filled , one participant said, that representatives of the large underwriting houses in the deal had to stand.
The underwriters of a stock offering, of course, are anxious to generate reports of overwhelming demand. That demand may or may not materialize when Allstate's stock is available on the New York Stock Exchange. But people familiar with the deal said there has been keen interest on the part of money managers.
Some buyers at yesterday's presentation expressed reservations about Allstate's exposure in Florida and in other states to losses from hurricanes and other natural disasters. They also worried about roadblocks Allstate faces as it tries to reduce its risk in such areas by dropping policies. But by and large, buyers were said to be mostly impressed by Allstate's plans to reduce its exposure over time and increase capital, its so-called surplus, in part with proceeds from the offering.
"It is a company that has a well-articulated strategy for increasing earnings," said Diane L. Lockard, a vice president with Society Asset Management in Cleveland, which manages more than $16 billion. "I look for comfort to their capital base and the fact that a good portion of the funds they raise will be used to boost surplus."
In interviews yesterday, money managers and analysts described Allstate as a company with a household brand name and a straightforward explanation of why its future looks bright. It has relatively low costs, a top-flight distribution network of agents that can't be duplicated and a strong balance sheet, they said. In addition, many analysts consider Allstate's proposed selling price to be modest compared with the price of comparable companies.
 
Low Price-Earnings Ratio
 Depending on the offering price, Allstate's shares are expected to sell at about 10 or 11 times earnings, said Orin Kramer of Boston Provident Partners, a Englewood, N.J., money manager. Companies such as Safeco and Ohio Casualty sell for more than 12 times projected 1993 earnings. Some companies such as Geico, sell for as much as 19 times projected earnings.
With 12.5 percent of the nation's homeowners and automobile insurance policies, Allstate is second in size only to State Farm, which is a mutual company that has about one- fourth of the market.
"It is one of the largest and best- capitalized insurance companies in the nation," said Alan B. Snyder of Snyder Capital, an independent money manager in San Francisco, referring to Allstate.
Sears Roebuck initially announced that it would offer 20 percent of Allstate in at least 78.5 million shares at between $24 and $27 a share. At $26 a share, the company would raise roughly $2.04 billion.
One reason Sears may choose to keep the price of the offering at the low end of the range, analysts say, is that with Sears planning to retain 80 percent of the stock, it hopes to take advantage of higher prices in the future. It will also establish stock options for 2,000 top Allstate employees on the basis of the initial offering price. A lower price would benefit those employees.
But not every money manager was enthusiastic. Carl M. Lindberg, a managing director of Brandywine Asset Management, said that he was wary of the risk that state regulators would block rate increases, and of the prospect of higher automobile insurance losses if the economy recovers, which would mean an increase in automobile driving and a rise in the number of accidents.
"I don't think this is a table-pounder for us," Mr. Lindberg said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; ALLSTATE CORP ALLSTATE CORP (91%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (83%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SOCIETY ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO; ALLSTATE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); BONDS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); WEATHER (65%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



34 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Stony Brook President Plans to Step Down

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., June 1

 BODY:
Dr. John H. Marburger, president of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, announced today that he would step down and return to teaching, ending a 13-year tenure marked by strains to maintain academic standards as state aid steadily declined.
In announcing his resignation, Dr. Marburger said he would leave his $146,000 position as soon as a successor is found, which he estimated would take up to a year. He pointed out that when he was appointed to the post in 1980 he said he planned to stay for only 10 years. 
 "But 1990 was the first year of deep budget cuts, and our current administrative team was then brand new," he wrote in an open letter. "While the forthcoming year will not be an easy one for Stony Brook, the additional cuts are not large and there are many signs of recovery."
 
Praise From Associates
 Dr. Marburger, who will return to teaching posts in the school's physics and electrical engineering departments, was praised by his associates today, though some worried that the school would suffer from his resignation.
"I am disappointed and surprised," said John G. Truxal, the former dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Science, now a professor of electrical engineering. "We are still a fairly young university, and he's a man who has had a picture of what Stony Brook could be and he has consistently stuck to that picture."
Mr. Truxal said Dr. Marburger had been extremely supportive of academic programs but had often been besieged by budget problems as state funds dwindled. "I really was amazed they didn't wear him down years ago."
 
Largest Employer on L.I.
 In an interview today Dr. Marburger said he had tried to counter some of the cuts in state money -- which dropped to $150 million this academic year from $173 million in 1989-1990 -- by seeking private contributions. Donations to the university have gone to $15 million from $5 million a year before he became president, Dr. Marburger said.
"We've become entrepreneurial," Dr. Marburger said. "We've had to find new ways of doing our business as state support has diminished." The university recently opened the Long Island High Technology Incubator, which rents research, laboratory and office space to fledgling hi-tech businesses on Long Island.
With 10,000 employees, the university is the largest employer on Long Island, and is closely connected to the island's economy. Dr. Marburger, 52, sits on the board of the Long Island Association, the major business group, while the Long Island Association's president, James L. Larocca, sits on the Stony Brook Council, which will choose Dr. Marburger's successor.
The 16,000-student research university, which draws 80 percent of its student body from Long Island and New York City, was once envisioned as the premier school in the state university system. Dr. Marburger was largely credited with trying to fulfill that promise despite the budget hardships.
"Putting it bluntly, we're a creature of the budgetary process, and Jack Marburger and his staff have been fighting valiantly with the legislature for the university," said Aaron Donner, chairman of the Stony Brook Council. "Sometimes the great work is a proposed cut ain't going to take place rather than getting something new. These are difficult times for SUNY."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT STONY BROOK LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT STONY BROOK LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; HARBURGER, JOHN H (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



35 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Rise On Loss By Gold

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
A sharp drop in gold prices and an improved outlook for President Clinton's deficit reduction plan helped send prices of Treasury securities sharply higher yesterday. More sluggish economic data also helped the market.
The rally in the bond market and a $9 drop in the price of gold to $371.30 an ounce helped send stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 24.91 points, to 3,552.34. [Pages D8 and D17.] 
 But in the bond market, prices and yields -- which move in opposite directions -- still appear locked in a tight range, with traders and investors awaiting the next important economic data, which will come in the May employment report to be released Friday.
 
 
Crucial Data
 It is those data, and the following reports on inflation, that will help decide if the bond market remains in its present range or whether prices move toward new high or low territory. For prices to reach new highs -- and yields to fall to new lows -- the data will have to do two things: show that the economy is still growing slowly and that the sharp rise in inflation during the first four months of the year is subsiding.
Peter McTeague, a fixed-income analyst for Technical Data in Boston, is bullish about the outlook, because he thinks that the inflation worries that sparked the selloff near the end of May were overdone. "In the worst case we are in a trading range and will test the highs," he said, referring to prices. "In the best case, we will break out to new highs."
Mr. McTeague said that a 1.67-point drop in the Commodity Research Bureau Index of commodities, including a sharp drop in the price of soybeans, also contributed to the relaxation of inflationary tension, at least for the day.
 
 
Short-Sellers Cited
 He added that yesterday's price rises were accentuated by buying from investors and traders who had been negative on the market and were either sitting out or had sold short in hopes that prices would fall, allowing them to profit by buying back their securities at lower prices.
"Too many people expected the bond to go to 7.125 percent before it went back to 6.75 percent," he said.
In late trading in the secondary market, the price of the 30-year bond due in February 2023 was up 19/32 percentage points as the yield fell to 6.88 percent, its lowest level since May 12. The yield was down from 6.98 percent Friday. The bond market was closed Monday for Memorial Day. An afternoon surge in the bond's price coincided with a sharp drop in the price of gold. On the Commodity Exchange in New York the price of the August contract was down nearly $13 an ounce before ending up at $371.30.
The prices of Treasury notes were also higher, with the 10-year note up 24/32 point as the yield fell to 6.04 percent, from 6.15 percent.
The market's impetus came partly from comments made over the weekend by Senator David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, a key member of the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee. Mr. Boren had said he opposed the President's proposed energy tax, a crucial element in the deficit reduction plan. His opposition would make it hard to win approval in the committee.
But the Senator said in interviews that he could now consider a compromise that would scale back the energy tax and replace the lost revenue with more spending cuts. That program shift would be positive for the bond market, where many analysts believe that spending reductions are the only way to achieve long-term deficit reduction.
 
 
Two Reports
 Two economic reports yesterday, one on personal income and the other the purchasing managers' report, showed that the economy, while growing, was moving at a sluggish pace.
This sluggish growth is positive for investors because it means that it is not likely that the economy will put much more upward pressure on prices, which means that the surprisingly high rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index for the first four months of the year -- 4.3 percent at an annual rate -- might subside.
Wayne Angell, a governor of the Federal Reserve and one of the members reportedly pushing for higher short-term interest rates to curb rising prices, said yesterday that he thought inflation would rise by 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year. This is a modest forecast that could be reassuring to some investors. But it is also higher than the Fed's main forecast of 2.5 percent to 2.75 percent made in February. Last year the Consumer Price Index rose 2.9 percent.
The drop in the price of gold may also have helped relieve some anxiety because there are investors who see in its rise the expectation of higher inflation. But while some gold traders said that the price plunge yesterday reflected a relaxing of inflationary fears, others contended that it was just the kind of correction that should be expected after the price had risen more than 16 percent since March.
 
 
Weekly Bill Auction
 In the weekly auction of Treasury bills, the average discount rates jumped to their highest level since the first auction of the year. The average rate for the three-month bill was 3.08 percent, up from 3.06 percent last week and the highest since 3.15 percent at the Jan. 4 auction. The rate for the six-month bill was 3.22 percent, up from 3.19 percent last week and the highest since 3.28 percent on Jan. 4.
This rise is in part a response to reports of the last week that the Federal Reserve has decided on a new monetary policy that has a bias toward higher short-term interest rates because of the unexpectedly high inflation data through April.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three-month and six-month bills yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.221	98.372	Discounted Rate	3.08%	3.22%	Coupon Yield	3.15%	3.32%	High Price	99.227	98.382	Discounted Rate	3.06%	3.20%	Coupon Yield	3.12%	3.30%	Low Price	99.221	98.372	Discounted Rate	3.08%	3.22%	Coupon Yield	3.15%	3.32%	Accepted at low price	72%	79%	Total applied for	$36,929,246	40,620,1626	Accepted	$12,018,134	$12,030,839	N.Y. applied for	$33,064,690	$38,052,071	N.Y. accepted	$10,203,818	$11,123,647	Noncompetitive	$1,238,281	$868,107	
Both these issues are dated June 3, 1993. The three-month bills mature Sept. 2, 1993, and the six-month bills mature Dec. 2, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction from Feb.-Jun, 1993 (Source: The Bond Buyer); "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TECHNICAL DATA SYSTEMS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOLD BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



36 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Is Down $9 and Silver Also Falls as Fever Breaks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
old prices plunged by as much as $9 an ounce in heavy trading yesterday as speculative fever broke after having pushed prices up nearly 18 percent this spring.
Other precious metal prices also tumbled. Analysts said the market's sentiment had changed. "My guess is that we may already have seen the high for the year," said George Milling-Stanley, precious metals analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. 
 Gold for June delivery dropped $8.80, to $369.50 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The more actively traded contract for August delivery sank $9, to $371.30.
July silver plummeted 21.7 cents, to $4.405 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, July platinum fell $7.70, to $392.10.
 
No Clear Reason Cited
 Analysts could cite no clear reason for the drop in the metals, which followed a week of volatile activity and steep declines in gold and silver on Friday.
Mr. Milling-Stanley said the investment funds that helped drive spot gold prices up from the March 10 low of $326 had became increasingly wary as prices approached $390. June gold peaked at $384.50, a 28-month high, on Friday; the August contract peaked at $386.50.
He said floor traders managed to depress prices enough yesterday to panic the big funds into selling.
Peter Cardillo, research director with Westfalia Investments Inc. in New York, linked the selloff to a rally in stock and bond prices amid rising expectations that President Clinton would win Senate approval for a Federal deficit-reduction plan.
Mr. Cardillo also said inflation fears, one of the factors behind gold's springtime surge, were fading.
"I'm not quite sure it's the end of the rally but the perception is beginning to change," he said. "People are more willing to sell into the market and take their profits than they were two weeks ago."
Mr. Milling-Stanley said supply-and-demand factors should keep the August gold contract from falling below $365. He predicted the metal would settle into a trading range of $365 to $385.
He was less optimistic about silver, which had risen more than 34 percent from a February low of $3.51 to last week's high of $4.72. "I see no signs of a major economic recovery in the United States," he said. "I'm seeing no resurgence of major demand from major North American industrial customers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; SILVER GOLD MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



37 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Reverses Early Drop To End Day Little Changed

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The dollar ended little changed against major currencies yesterday after it recovered from another record low against the Japanese yen. There was speculation that the Federal Reserve was again buying dollars to stem the currency's slide.
The dollar fell to a new low of 106.55 yen in London trading. It recovered in New York to finish at 107.15 yen, up from 106.95 yen late Friday. 
 The British pound, meanwhile, tumbled on concerns that Prime Minister John Major's shake-up of his Cabinet will result in a greater willingness to lower interest rates to bolster economic growth. In late New York trading, the pound sank to $1.5515, from $1.5617 late Friday.
Currency trading was slow yesterday. On Monday, markets in New York, London and other European cities were closed for holidays.
The Fed aggressively bought dollars last week after the dollar started its most recent decline, traders said. If the Fed was in the market yesterday, traders said, its purchases were probably smaller and more discreet. The Fed does not discuss its currency trading activities.
"The Fed's recent intervention is making people think twice about selling the dollar," said Steve Flanagan, vice president at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. The dollar also gained as traders sold the yen to take advantage of its rapid rise, he said.
The dollar went into a tailspin last week after the Treasury Department issued a report saying a strong yen could help curb Japan's trade surplus. The dollar has fallen more than 3 yen since then. Since the beginning of the year, the yen has risen more than 14 percent against the dollar.
Traders said the dollar's recovery from record lows yesterday did not mean that its slide against the yen was over. They noted that the American economy remained sluggish and that the country's trade deficit with Japan was still growing.
"This is a bit of a respite," said Brian Dolan, a trader at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York. "We'll resume the downward trend in a week or two."
Without robust economic growth, the Federal Reserve is less likely to raise interest rates, which would buoy the dollar by making dollar deposits more attractive to investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



38 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Balk At New Rules

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn., June 1

 BODY:
Resisting fierce pressure from the banking industry, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued two new accounting rules today that bankers say will give investors a false impression of their finances.
Statement 114 covers how banks and other financial institutions account for bad loans. It would require them to estimate the percentage of the loan they will get back from their creditors and list only the discounted amount on their financial statements. 
 Currently, banks do not have to adjust the value of their troubled loans on their financial statements.
Statement 115 requires banks and other financial institutions to report the market value of all debt securities as well as any equity securities for which a fair value can be determined. Many financial institutions report the value of such assets on their books at the price they paid for them. With the new rule, only bonds that banks promise to hold until they mature will be eligible for such historical cost accounting.
Bankers contend that the rule will cause the value of their regulatory capital -- the money the Government requires them to keep on hand to pay back depositors -- to fluctuate with interest rates. Banks typically invest their capital in bonds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS INC (58%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (91%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (91%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ACCOUNTING (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING LAW (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



39 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Ambition vs. Practicality in Cable-Phone Link

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
In theory, the recently announced Time Warner-U S West deal is the perfect marriage. Time Warner's cable television system already has the potential to deliver hundreds of channels of programming. U S West is an expert in building telephone networks that can instantly route millions of phone calls at the same time.
Want to order up a video how-to guide on repairing your car or building a deck? Click the remote control. Want to choose from a long list of movies, and specify when they will be shown? Just click again, and put the bill on a credit card. Want to make a plain old phone call? The new networks planned by Time Warner and U S West would do that, too. 
 But now comes the hard part. While experts say the core principles for such a network are firmly established, the technology is still so new that a multitude of glitches are inevitable and many crucial components are not yet commercially available.
Time Warner and U S West hope to have an experimental new-age cable system operating in Orlando, Fla., by early next year. And the two allies hope to begin providing advanced services in other cities as early as 1995. But that timetable could prove difficult.
"To make a cable network perform like a telephone company doesn't require any new science," said Charles M. Lillis, executive vice president and chief planning officer at U S West."The issue is: how will this era of video-on-demand and multimedia evolve? How do you get movies from a video storage and stream it through a network to a person's home to produce video-on-demand? There are no switches that can do that now, as we speak."
High-speed "switches" that can simultaneously route voice, video and computer data are only beginning to be used in corporate private networks and have never been built for this kind of job. Likewise, nobody has yet begun to sell the giant electronic jukeboxes -- computers known as servers -- to store thousands of movies in digital code and distribute them to thousands of customers on a moment's notice.
Some experts have also raised questions about the technology that Time Warner plans to use for two-way communications -- from making phone calls to ordering videos. Finally, the most devilish problems may be the human ones: designing consumer-friendly software that allows even technophobic viewers to navigate a maze of offerings without becoming intimidated or hostile.
Potentially, the networks will bring much more than just a smorgasbord of video services. Indeed, the most immediate beneficiaries may well be long-distance telephone companies, whose stocks jumped after the two companies announced their plans. Why? Because the cable networks will link long-distance companies to their large business customers, cutting back on the steep access charges imposed by local phone companies.
Ultimately, Time Warner and U S West hope to set the standard for a global network that can deliver any kind of information and entertainment. "What we're really doing is putting a tremendous amount of band width in people's homes with an almost infinite amount of switching in the network," said James Chiddix, senior vice president of engineering and technology at the Time Warner Cable unit. "Someday we hope to see this as part of a global network."
Time Warner's current systems transmit over coaxial cables. These cables have huge theoretical capacity, but the signals need to be amplified at frequent intervals and the practical capacity is limited over distances greater than a mile. To deal with that, Time Warner intends to install hair-thin optical fibers along the main arteries of its network and let the older cable carry signals from a neighborhood hub to homes.
Most cable companies are pursuing similar plans to give their networks huge untapped capacity. Time Warner and companies like Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's biggest cable company, are also planning to adopt digital compression technologies to pack as many as 10 channels into space now occupied by one.
 
Advanced Switches
 What sets the Time Warner design apart is the incorporation of an advanced telephone switching technology called asynchronous transfer mode, or A.T.M. In such switches, all information is transmitted in small electronic packets that contain the ones and zeroes of computer code. These packets are like little trains of data that chug through the network. The "engine" at the front end has five bytes of address information to tell the computer where the data should go. The "cars" that trail behind carry an additional 48 bytes of actual content -- the equivalent of half a dozen typewritten words.
While packet networks are not new, they have never been capable of blending streams of video and voice information with bursts of computer data. The reason is that the older packet networks simplify the job of routing packets by making them long. That is fine for computer files, but it is unworkable for voice and video signals that would sound garbled if key packets were delayed by being trapped behind a bulky computer file.
An A.T.M. network eliminates this problem because it keeps all packets to a uniformly short length that makes it possible to blend the streams without unacceptable delays. This requires extremely high-speed processing by the switch, which acts like a railroad switchman that identifies and routes millions of trains every second.
So far, A.T.M. switches have been installed only for specialized purposes -- like routing huge volumes of voice and computer data on private corporate networks. Using them to distribute voice and video over a public cable or telephone network requires that they be modified. That can be done, but the machines Time Warner starts with will be among the first off the assembly line. The American Telephone and Telegraph Company has won a contract to supply the switch for the Orlando system.
The network's other major component is the "server," the computer that stores and dispenses the programs in digital form. Servers essentially perform as jukeboxes do, and are now routinely used as data bases for networks of personal computers. But no one has built machines to work on a scale to serve so much data to so many people at one time.
"Right now, servers are limited as to the total amount of data they can pass in and out at any given moment," said Neal Hill, a senior analyst at the Yankee Group, a market research firm in Boston. "They are fine for the ones and zeroes of computer files, but handling pictures and sound is much more difficult."
Companies like International Business Machines, A.T.& T., Silicon Graphics and Sun Microsystems are racing to meet that challenge. Indeed, A.T.& T. announced yesterday that it hopes to begin selling such a server by this fall, and it is expected to announce today that the cable company Viacom will use the machine in a market test. Time Warner has not selected a server vendor yet for its prototype system.
Mr. Chiddix of Time Warner said the technology already existed and just needed to be adapted. "We don't think we have to invent the wheel," he said. "There are arrays of hardware available that already store many trillions of bytes of information."
Time Warner has in the meantime outlined a plan for "reverse" traffic -- the signals from individual customers back to the main switch -- that is new for the cable industry.
Traditional cable television systems set aside a small band of relatively low frequencies so that the boxes on top of the set can signal the network for ordering pay-per-view programs and other limited forms of interactive television.
Time Warner and U S West will allocate a big chunk of fairly high frequencies for telephone calls, data communications and other uses. This provides room for fairly high-powered services, but it also poses challenges. Because the frequencies are quite high, the signal amplifiers are more delicate, and cable strung above ground on utility poles is vulnerable to disruption.
 
Some Key Questions
 "It's really on the bleeding edge of work," remarked Edward Surkowski, who heads interactive television research at the Bell Laboratories of A.T.& T. "I think it's manageable. The question is whether its deployable and economic."
The network, which may also be used for wireless phones, will ultimately need a huge amount of advanced software -- to retrieve data rapidly, to manage billing issues, to preserve security and privacy, and to make the system so easy to use that ordinary Americans will be willing to participate. The business is potentially huge, but the market is still ill defined.
Despite the uncertainties, Mr. Chiddix hopes to begin service in Orlando by early next year. Will most of the bugs be worked out? Stay tuned.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "To make a cable network perform like a telephone company doesn't require any new science," said Charles M. Lillis, executive vice president and chief planning officer at U S West. "The issue is: how will this era of video-on-demand and multimedia evolve?" (Steve Zavodny/Denver)
 
Diagram: "A Network of the Future"
 
The joint venture between Time Warner and US West to build advanced communications networks will use technology so new that many parts are not yet available. Her is how it maywork.
 
Video Service
 
The VIDEO SERVER is a large computer capable of storing thousands of movies. It is linked by a FIBER OPTIC CABLE to the SWITCH, the brains of the network. Fiber optic lines continue and stop at NEIGHBORHOOD NODES. The nodes transfer the fiber optic signals to the COAXIAL CABLE TV lines to each home.
 
Business Service
 
FIBER OPTIC CABLES from the SWITCH are connected directly to LARGE-BUSINESS customers. Heavy long-distance users, like banks or brokerage firms, save large sums of money by reaching their carrier without paying access charges to a local phone company.
 
Wireless Phone Service
 
The COAXIAL CABLE Lines threading through neighborhoods have RADIO RECEIVERS at regular intervals, which can be used to transmit signals from wireless telephones and portable computers.
 
(Source: Time Warner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (92%); NAICS517510 CABLE AND OTHER PROGRAM DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE AND VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; US WEST INC TIME WARNER INC (92%); U S WEST INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; US WEST INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TELEVISION; STATIONS AND NETWORKS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; CABLE TELEVISION; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADBAND (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



40 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Federal Home Loan Bank is offering $100 million of step-up notes due 1998 at a price of 100 through Dean Witter Reynolds. The notes yield 4.35 percent and are callable in one year, with the coupon increasing to 5.96 percent if it is not called June 22, 1994.
 
* Loews Corp., the insurance and tobacco holding company based in New York City, is offering $300 million of 30-year 7 5/8 percent notes due in 2023 at a price of 98.549, to yield 7.75 percent, through Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities. The issue is callable in 10 years and rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and AA- by Standard & Poor's.
 
* San Bernardino County, Calif., is offering $254.5 million of tax-exempt short-term notes through BT Securities. The tax and revenue anticipation notes due July 29, 1994, have an interest rate of 3 1/4 percent and are rated MIG-1 by Moody's and SP-1+ by S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: L (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (72%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEBT NOTES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



41 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
WINE and travel are inextricably entwined. Not a year goes by without the appearance of a dozen new books, nominally about wine but mostly about the countryside where the wine is made.
Take for example, two new books on New York State wines and wineries, published just in time for the summer traveling season: "The Wines and Wineries of the Hudson River Valley," by Alan R. Martell and Alton Long (Countryman Press, $14.95), and "The Wines of Long Island," by Philip Palmedo and Edward Beltrami (Waterline Books, $16.95). Both are wine books, but they are travel books as well. 
 Wine travel is a relatively new phenomenon. When Alexis Lichine published the first edition of "The Wines of France," in the 1950's, he provided relatively little information on visiting the vineyards about which he wrote. His last edition, the third, published in 1986, devotes almost as much space to restaurants and hotels as it does to wine.
Most Bordeaux wine makers were offended when Mr. Lichine erected roadside billboards in the 1960's inviting the public to his own chateau. Slowly and reluctantly, many of the Bordeaux wineries have changed, opening modest visiting centers. To their astonishment, many have discovered that tourists are a lucrative additional source of business.
Likewise, on Long Island and to a lesser extent in the Hudson Valley, winery-hopping has become an important new tourist attraction. For example, Pindar Vineyards, in Peconic, on Long Island's North Fork, not only produces 50,000 cases of wine a year, but also attracts some 500 people a day in summer to tour the winery and sample wines. Pindar is by far the largest winery on Long Island in terms of production; most are in the 7,000-to-10,000-case range.
The Long Island wineries have excelled at promoting themselves, individually and through the Long Island Wine Council. Popular parties at the Hargrave Vineyard in Cutchogue and at the Windows on the World restaurant in Manhattan have carried the Long Island message to the affluent New Yorkers who spend summers and weekends on Long Island's east end, where all but one of the wineries are situated.
In 1988, the Long Island wineries garnered national attention by inviting some of Bordeaux's most prominent chateau owners and wine makers to a symposium. Two years later, a second gathering, concentrating on the merlot grape, lured more wine-making stars, from both France and California. Both sessions resulted in national exposure that inevitably positioned Long Island wines among the world's best.
"The Wines of Long Island" lists the locations and visiting hours for 15 wineries. It notes special events, like wine seminars and dinners with wine makers; it names the owners and managers, the kinds of grapes they grow and the wines they make. There are trip suggestions and a map.
In fact, no wineries could be easier to find. Where the Long Island Expressway ends, it becomes Route 25. Nine of the wineries are along Route 25 between Riverhead and Peconic. Three others, Palmer, Hargrave and Bidwell, are on Sound Avenue, north of Route 25. Mattituck Hills is just off Sound Avenue, on Bergen Avenue in Mattituck. The Southampton Winery and the Bridgehampton Winery are on the South Fork. One winery, Banfi Vineyards in Nassau County, is not open to the public.
Wine was made on Long Island as early as the 17th century, but only recently on a commercial scale. The Hudson Valley is another story. Barbara Ensrud writes in the foreword to "The Wines and Wineries of the Hudson River Valley" that "New York boasts the country's oldest surviving wine industry and . . . the Hudson Valley served as cradle for its first commercial vineyards."
French Huguenots set vines near New Paltz in 1677. Successful hybrid vines, crosses between local and European varieties, were developed in the 19th century to counteract harsh Hudson Valley winters. A modern commercial winery was established at Washingtonville in 1839; as the Brotherhood Winery, it still exists. Benmarl, the region's best-known winery, was established on the site of vineyards planted in the 1870's.
Like the Long Island book, "The Wines and Wineries of the Hudson River Valley" provides pertinent information on visiting hours and special attractions, and a map of the region. Twenty wineries in the valley are open to visitors, Mr. Martell and Mr. Long write. Most of them -- 14 -- are west of the Hudson.
The closest one to New York City is the North Salem Vineyard in northern Westchester County. The most distant is the Meadery in Greenwich, N.Y., east of Saratoga Springs, too far north to make anything from grapes. As the name implies, the wine here is made from honey. There are also apple wines.
Among the special attractions: Benmarl, in Marlboro, runs a Societe des Vignerons, which is like a club for customers who help with the harvest and buy most of the wine. At Royal Kedem, in Milton, everything is kosher. Millbrook Vineyards, in Millbrook, experiments with some 20 grape varieties, while Clinton Vineyards in Clinton Corners uses only one: seyval blanc. Cascade Mountain Winery, in Amenia, operates an attractive restaurant.
The Hudson Valley is not Long Island -- culturally, geographically or economically. The wineries are widely separated and not always easy to find; except for rich communities like Millbrook and Amenia, the region has little of the perceived cachet of eastern Long Island.
But there are signs of change. More and more second-home owners are fleeing Long Island's nightmarish traffic jams, crowds and high prices for the breath-taking scenery and rural attractions of the Hudson Valley. It's only a matter of time before they discover the charms of the region's wines, and the wineries that make them.
 
TASTINGS
Hamilton-Russell Pinot Noir, South Africa, 1989; about $14.
 
Sanctions against South Africa were lifted a year ago in a burst of optimism over that country's political future. While the quest for equality may be a long one, South African wines, in the meantime, are being permitted into the United States, and this Burgundian-style pinot noir is one of the best. At Hermanus, overlooking Walker Bay (a great whale-watching spot), Tim Hamilton-Russell operates Africa's southernmost vineyard and winery. Chardonnay and pinot noir are the specialities. This one was made by Peter Findlayson, the original wine maker at Hamilton-Russell, who is now a competitor, with vineyards of his own right next door. This was a relatively closed wine, say people who knew it when it was young. It has come into its own as a delicious alternative to expensive Burgundy, with pronounced earthy flavors and Burgundy bouquet. Perhaps the long trip helped it along. No pinot noir enthusiast should miss a chance to try it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WINES AND WINERIES OF THE HUDSON RIVER VALLEY, THE (BOOK); WINES OF LONG ISLAND, THE (BOOK) ; WINE TALK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LICF (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRYMAN PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; GUIDEBOOKS ; WINES WINERIES (93%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (79%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); TOURISM (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J; MARTELL, ALAN R; LONG, ALTON; PALMEDO, PHILIP; BELTRAMI, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



42 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2706 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Musicians? An Overhaul at Juilliard -- A special report.;
A New Juilliard for a More Challenging Era

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
The sun was beating strongly on the plaza in front of the Juilliard School on a recent weekday, but the real heat was coming from another source. Before an audience of students sprawled on the white stone or crowded around a buffet table set up for the school's year-end picnic, Eugene Park was going through an ear-splitting, high-voltage rendition of a Hungarian czardas by Vittorio Monti.
This was a crowd that knew its Monti and liked what it was hearing. Mr. Park, a first-year student whose face was obscured by long hair, rocked back and forth on his heels in the slower sections, building anticipation, then let it rip in the fast passages, bow hairs snapping as he punished the strings of his electric violin. It was Paganini with a few dashes of Pete Townshend thrown in for extra attitude. The students clapped and whistled, grateful perhaps for diversion from the week's main focus: solo performances before a faculty jury to determine their final grades.
 
The Advent of Change
 It was a scene at odds with the traditional picture of Juilliard, the most prestigious conservatory in the United States, and perhaps in the world, one whose graduates account for about 20 percent of the musicians in the Big Five American orchestras (and half of those in the New York Philharmonic). 
 Juilliard is an institution where in past decades students arrived, took their lessons and left. Four years of this, and they settled in with a top orchestra or jetted around the world pursuing a solo career. The school could be tough and grim, elitist and insular, but most of its students toiled away in full confidence that the jobs were out there.
Not any more.
"I hope that I can make a living doing what I love," said Angella Ahn, a Korean-born violinist finishing her fourth year, and part of the wave of foreign students who now make up more than a third of the student body. "But there are so many of us. I don't know if there is room."
 
Recasting an Image>
 For most of its history the Juilliard School has not had to think about such matters. But a crisis in government and corporate support for the arts, the near-collapse of musical education in the primary and secondary schools and a shrinking marketplace for classical musicians have changed all that. Under Joseph W. Polisi, the school's president for the last nine years, Juilliard is becoming a very different place.
As a practical measure, Mr. Polisi has introduced a policy of admitting fewer students, particularly in the piano and violin departments, and raising admission standards. He said in a recent interview: "We have to be sure that every student admitted has the potential for some kind of life in the arts."
He has hired new faculty and reconfigured the course work so that students will be exposed to more teachers and performance situations and leave with a broader range of skills than those acquired by the narrow specialists of a generation ago.
More subtly, Mr. Polisi has tried to expand the school's mission and the students' sense of their social role as artists.
 
A Need for Broader Skills
 "The field we are sending young people into today is different than at any time this century," said Mr. Polisi. "You cannot go out there with the idea that 'I've mastered the solo repertory, so I'm ready.' You have to be able to perform chamber as well as solo, you have to be articulate about your art verbally, you have to become involved in the relation between the urban center and the arts."
The retooling of Juilliard has gone forward over much initial skepticism by faculty members used to operating as autonomous units and some puzzlement among music educators who see nothing wrong with the old Juilliard.
"It's going to be a long time before we don't need what Juilliard has always done: Take the best applicants, put them in the practice rooms and make them good at Brahms," said Larry J. Livingston, dean of the music school at the University of Southern California.
The pressure to find creative ways of making a living has two principal causes, both of which that trouble Mr. Polisi and are driving a number of his initiatives: the declining audience for classical music and a shrinking of the American talent pool. These are the results, in large part, of the drastic deterioration of the public-school music programs in the United States.
"We now have a whole generation that hasn't had music classes in school," said Joel Sachs, who teaches music history at Juilliard and organizes the annual Focus festival of contemporary music.
Mr. Polisi said: "America really is the center for advanced musical study in the world, so it's ironic that primary and secondary schooling here is as weak as it is. Thirty years ago the music system in New York City was a vibrant and highly disciplined program. That system is now essentially gone, and it hasn't been replaced by anything else. Where are the future audiences going to come from? Are they going to have an epiphany at age 47 that they need a subscription to the Philharmonic?"
 
Reaching Out to the Community
 In response, the once-aloof Juilliard is trying to make its case to the wider world. The most ambitious move toward community outreach is the Music Advancement Program, in which teachers from Juilliard canvass the neighborhoods of the city, auditioning young musicians. The most promising are admitted to a two-year program of Saturday instruction that includes studio lessons and ensemble training.
This year the school auditioned 350 students and accepted 35, and the hope is that some will enter Juilliard's pre-college division.
In a second outreach effort, the Performing Arts Programs for Schools, Juilliard sends students and recent alumni into the area's elementary and secondary schools to perform and discuss classical music and jazz.
 
The Symptoms
Foreign Students Rise in Number
Another index of the decline in American musical education is the rising foreign enrollment at Juilliard. The school has always served an international student body. As long ago as 1964, the president of the school remarked proudly in an address to the trustees that the school had the highest percentage of foreign students of any institution of higher learning in the United States. The figure then was 19 percent. Today it is 35 percent, and 75 percent in the piano department.
Foreign enrollment can be read as a barometer of political and economic events abroad. In the early 1950's, Juilliard received a wave of musicians from the newly created state of Israel. In the mid-60's, Japan overtook Israel, only to be overtaken in recent years by Korea. The collapse of the Soviet Union and ensuing turmoil in its conservatories have resulted in a surge from Russia and other former Soviet republics in the last three years.
The rise of Korea has been particularly rapid, symbolized at Juilliard by Ms. Ahn and her two sisters, who have played together as a piano trio since early childhood. All three applied to the school and were accepted. Faculty members invariably comment on the discipline of their Asian students, the high regard for Western classical music instilled in them as they grow up, and their parents' close involvement in their musical education.
"I like to say that the Koreans think they're Jewish," said Herbert Stessin, the chairman of the piano department. "You see the same ethos, the same focus and concentration, and the mothers are the same pests."
 
The Effect
Dwindling Jobs For Graduates
The influx of foreign students, many of whom pursue careers in the United States, coincides with bankruptcies among American orchestras, curtailed orchestral seasons and a cutback in faculty hiring. In short, sharply increased competition for fewer traditional music jobs.
"When I got out of school, in 1973, you could count on a full-time career in an orchestra," said Raymond Mase, chairman of the brass department. "Orchestras were more successful then; they didn't have to be creative. Now, even in the New York Philharmonic, you need to be trained in brass quintet."
Many orchestras now run a pops season along with their traditional classical-music season, presenting players with a new repertory to learn. "The trumpet is very prominent in film scores, which pop seasons use," said Mr. Mase. "On the chamber side, brass players have to go into the schools and on the road."
 
New Areas of Study
 In his effort to present what he calls "alternative life styles" to his students, Mr. Mase has brought in early-brass specialists for demonstrations and lectures and, in one case, a performer who specializes in an instrument of his own devising, the "mutan-trumpet."
"We want students to see that there are lots of different ways for a musician to make a living and be musically happy," said Mr. Mase.
Now, skills and courses that used to exist on the periphery have moved toward the center. The American Brass Quintet, in which Mr. Mase plays trumpet, was brought into the school as a resident company. The Juilliard String Quartet now spends less time on the road and more time at the school, working with students.
In a direct response to the changing marketplace, Juilliard recently established the country's first doctoral program in accompanying, and it offers a seminar on the business of music.
At the same time, Juilliard has worked to push students outside the school and expose them to musicians who have carved out other than solo or orchestral careers.
"I'd love to play in a symphony orchestra," said Mark Inouye, a third-year trumpet student. "But I'd also love to be a jazz player, and even studio work would be good."
 
The Response
Remaking Juilliard And Its Program
The mere existence of a brass department is symbolic of recent changes at the school. For most of its history, Juilliard had only one department: piano. Last year, the rest of the faculty was organized into departments as the most recent move in a sweeping restructuring of the administration, the curriculum and the physical and social environment at the school.
When Mr. Polisi arrived at Juilliard in 1984, both faculty and administration agreed that Juilliard was too large. The piano department, the school's largest, was cut from 200 to 155 students. The current plan is to reduce the school's total number of students to about 715 from the current 815 in the next three years, with most of the reductions coming in the piano and violin departments.
At the same time, faculty salaries, which had always been low, were raised by 20 to 25 percent and have been adjusted subsequently to keep them in line with university salaries elsewhere in New York.
Mr. Polisi, a bassoonist who came to Juilliard after serving in administrative posts at the University of Cincinnati's School of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and the Yale School of Music, and whose father taught bassoon at Juilliard for many years, judged the school wanting as a congenial place for students.
 
Fostering a Sense of Community
 The physical and emotional environment could be daunting. Designed for 650 students, the school was accommodating more than 900 in 1984, creating a scarcity of practice rooms and a surplus of career anxiety for the hordes of pianists and violinists gearing up to compete for disappearing jobs.
The place didn't feel like a school. It was a building where students came, took lessons and left. Because there was no student housing, there was little sense of a Juilliard community. Even the building plan was hostile. The uninviting main entrance, on 66th Street near loading docks and the back door to Alice Tully Hall, deprived students of the time-honored pleasure of simply hanging out and socializing.
Mr. Polisi moved quickly on the quality-of-life issues, establishing a student affairs office in 1985 to offer the kinds of services taken for granted at most colleges: housing-referral information, psychological counseling, student advisers for incoming freshmen.
 
Dormitory Opens Doors
 For the first time, Juilliard got a student newspaper and a student council. And in 1990 it opened its first dormitory, part of a $100 million building project at Lincoln Center, relieving many students, some of them new to the United States, of the enormous burden of finding their own apartments in New York.
The project had the side benefit of moving the school's entrance from 66th Street to a pleasant pedestrian walkway on the opposite side of the building, now a gathering point for students, especially the 40 percent of them who live in the residence center.
An unanticipated improvement is that dormitory living has, at a stroke, broken down the rigid barriers that formerly separated students in different disciplines.
Gary Graffman, the director of the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, said of his counterpart at Juilliard: "I find Joe extremely understanding and caring of the students, which is not always the case with the heads of music schools and departments."
 
Team Teaching Introduced
 Mr. Polisi also moved to modify the school's traditional tutorial system, under which students spent nearly all their time studying with a single teacher. The result was a closed world in which students were seldom if ever exposed to other teachers at the school and in which teachers operated as autonomous units, rarely coming into contact with their colleagues and paying scant attention to classroom instruction.
Greater emphasis was placed on team teaching, guest lectures and coordination of subject matter in complementary classes. Master classes, a rarity at the school, became routine, allowing small groups of students to work intensively with a visiting artist.
"There are some great musicians coming through here," said Alexis Gerlach, a cellist in the graduate school. "Rostropovich came to conduct the orchestra, and I got a lesson with him."
 
The Outlook
More Liberal Arts, More Diversity
The undergraduate academic program, previously a scattering of courses, was redesigned into a formal liberal arts department, based on instruction in the great books and the Socratic method.
For students who wanted more liberal arts study than Juilliard could offer, the school worked out an arrangement in 1989 that allows Juilliard students to take elective academic courses or to earn a Bachelor of Arts in any major from Columbia University or Barnard College while they earn a Master of Music degree from Juilliard.
Juilliard's graduate school, which accounts for 42 percent of enrollment, changed its admissions policy, requiring all entering students to audition rather than giving a virtual free pass to Juilliard undergraduates.
The result has been an influx of students from other conservatories and liberal arts colleges. "This has opened things up, encouraged more of a mix," said Joel Sachs, "It's much more lively than it was."
 
New Approach Meets Resistance
 Selling the new program was not easy. Mr. Polisi admits that the initial reaction of the faculty was one of suspicion. James S. Allen, Juilliard's provost and dean, said: "There was some resistance on the part of the faculty, who said you'd be diminishing the most important thing, developing talent. Our contention was, trust us, you'll see, the opposite will happen. The students will be no less dedicated and have more resources. Those complaints have gone away."
In some respects, the furious pace of change seems curious. Standards at Juilliard are as high, or higher, than they have ever been. Its prestige remains untarnished, reflected in the fact that more than 90 percent of the students who are accepted at the school choose to go there. (Tuition, room and board cost about $20,000 a year.)
Financially, the institution rests on a solid foundation. Its endowment has nearly tripled in the last eight years, from $96 million in 1984 to $250 million.
"It's not that it's broken," said Mr. Allen. "We could go on as we did in the past, but the conservatory is a 19th-century invention, and the lives of people are not the same anymore. The pristine ivory tower where students came to refine their gifts and go off to become a star -- that's over."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We have to be sure that every student admitted has the potential for some kind of life in the arts," said Joseph W. Polisi, left, the president of the Juilliard School for the last nine years. He spoke with Sheila Browne, Melvin Chin and Aaron Flagg in April after a rehearsal. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C15); Khalid Sharif, left, and Jairus Steed, violin students in Juilliard's Music Advancement Program, warm up backstage before their recent spring concert. The program is meant to reach out to city neighborhoods and enroll promising young musicians in a two-year program of Saturday instruction. (Henry Grossman) (pg. C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JUILLIARD SCHOOL

ORGANIZATION: JUILLIARD SCHOOL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); INTERVIEWS (63%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM; POLISI, JOSEPH W

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



43 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Twists and Turns Reshape Bill on Energy Tax

SERIES: The Fine Print -- A periodic look behind the law.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
Five months ago, seeking to raise billions for President Clinton's economic programs and at the same time promote conservation, the White House proposed a broad tax on most forms of energy.
Then armies of lobbyists beseeched the White House to make the tax fairer, squadrons of Congressmen amended it to make it less onerous, and Mr. Clinton horse-traded some clauses to gain support for his budget. 
 What resulted, some experts say, is one of the most exemption-loaded, head-scratchingly complicated, brow-furrowing revenue raisers in history. Never very simple, the proposed energy tax is now so convoluted that one fuel, diesel, would be taxed at at least five separate rates and dyed in enough distinguishing colors to make Crayola green with envy.
 
The Electron's Distinction
 In the House version of the bill, oil is taxed more than gas. Gas is taxed more than solar energy, which is not taxed at all. Electricity is taxed, but at a floating rate derived from the taxes on all the coal, oil, gas and other energy sources used to generate the previous month's power.
The tax would promote conservation, but the House version gives a sizable tax break to one of the most power-hungry industries, aluminum smelting, though not by name. It is the first tax proposal to grant exemptions not just to certain molecules, but to one subatomic particle, the electron.
Mr. Clinton's energy tax still faces a tough bout in the Senate, and the President seems resigned to more amending and scaling back. Today, in Milwaukee, he insisted that he will fight for the tax in the Finance Committee, but he conspicuously omitted it from a list of five non-negotiable items in his budget.
Already, some accountants and economists are calling the House version of the tax an administrative nightmare.
"A simple value-added tax without a hell of a lot of exemptions will require 2 to 4 percent of its revenues for administrative costs," said Philip Verlager, an economist who was a special assistant on domestic energy matters in Jimmy Carter's Treasury Department. "I think this one's going to require something on the order of 10 to 20 percent because it's gotten so complex. In some sense, it's a full-employment program for bureaucrats."
Mr. Clinton's specialists agree that the energy tax isn't as simple as it was before the political system massaged it, but they contend that most fears are based on misinformation.
 
'Certain Amount of Confusion'
 "This tax has evolved since it was first proposed," said Leslie Samuels, the Treasury Department's assistant secretary for tax policy. "So there is a certain amount of confusion. As people understand it more, they'll be more accepting of it."
How complex is it?
Consider this regimen prescribed under the proposal for taxing diesel fuel:
First, determine which taxes apply to diesel. Diesel is already subject to a Federal excise tax; the new energy tax overlaps that tax sometimes, and sometimes does not. For example, diesel fuel for autos is subject to both the excise and energy taxes; diesel for farm tractors and home heating is subject to neither. But the tax for diesel-burning boats varies with the boat: pleasure craft pay both levies; commercial boats and business yachts pay only the energy tax. Buses and trains, with different excise taxes, pay entirely different rates.
Next, correlate the tax rate with the new fuel color. Diesel would be sold in hues intended to signify both its tax status and pollutant content. For example, diesel carrying neither excise nor energy taxes would be the same color as high-sulphur diesel (which must be indelibly dyed as part of the 1992 Clean Air Act), even if the tax-exempt fuel doesn't contain a lot of sulphur. High-sulphur fuel exempted from the excise tax -- but not the energy tax -- will be the same color, with an added chemical marker to identify its tax status. Low-sulphur diesel subject only to the energy tax will be dyed another color. Fuel subject to both taxes will apparently be left undyed, regardless of how much sulphur it contains.
Actually, the energy tax on diesel is comparatively simple. Although it would require inspectors to police the use of dyes, and new storage tanks and trucks to segregate green fuel from red from purple, paperwork would be minimal because the same wholesalers who already pay the excise tax would pay the energy tax.
 
Now, the Really Hard Part
 Where the tax turns to kudzu, experts say, is in its calculation of rates. There, they say, the details of a seemingly fair and environmentally progressive tax are now devilish.
The legislation would raise $72 billion from energy taxes through 1998, or almost a third of the $250 billion or so in new taxes Mr. Clinton is seeking. The yardstick for taxation is the British Thermal Unit, or B.T.U., the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of a pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. A gallon of gasoline contains about 125,000 B.T.U.'s; a McDonald's quarter pounder with cheese, at 510 calories, would equal about two B.T.U.'s.
The bill would tax most fuels at the rate of 26.8 cents per million B.T.U.'s, with a 34.2-cent surtax added to most oil, gasoline and diesel. Most "green" energy, like electricity-making windmills and solar power, would be exempt. Hydroelectric and nuclear power would be taxed at 26.8 cents.
But totting up one's daily purchase or sale of B.T.U.'s would prove no easy matter, especially in the heavily adjusted House version of the bill.
A prime example, tax experts say, is the electricity tax, which would be collected by electric utilities from their customers. But rather than levy a flat rate per kilowatt hour, utilities would have to calculate the heat content of every fuel they used to generate electric current.
Moreover, some electricity users would be exempted, meaning they would be entitled to rebates. Chief among them is the aluminum industry, which devours power in its mills and worries that the tax would drive the price of the metal beyond reason.
To assuage those fears, the House amended the tax to help those exceedingly select industries in which "electrolytic processes utilize electricity to provide a flow of electrons which bond with other ions in production.
"The exemption is limited to electricity which acts as an electron donor," the House says.
 
Imports and Exports
 The clauses that are potentially the most complex would exempt exports from the tax, and instead tax "energy intensive" imports, including goods whose "energy inputs" constitute more than 2 percent of their value.
The idea is to prevent the energy tax from hobbling the competitiveness of homemade products, but some experts are skeptical. They predict that importers would take advantage of a clause allowing them to contest the Government's determinations of what is energy-intensive, and litigate with abandon.
Not to worry, says the Treasury's Mr. Samuels. "Obviously, any tax has new issues with it, and with respect to the administration of this particular tax, people feel comfortable that the administrative concerns have been met and should not be burdensome," he said.
Ada Rousso, now a senior manager at the Price-Waterhouse accounting firm, used to write tax regulations and tax legislation at the Internal Revenue Service. She says Mr. Samuels has a point, and gives the Administration and Congress high marks for trying to simplify current tax law at some points in the bill.
But asked to cite a tax that is more labyrinthine, she replied: "You know, offhand, I can't. I'm sure there are many others, but I can't come up with one."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 1993, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Wednesday with an article about proposed energy taxes described two elements of the plan incorrectly. As passed by the House, the plan would tax liquefied petroleum gas at 26.8 cents per million British Thermal Units, not 61.0 cents, and would impose a natural gas tax on consumers, not utilities.
The related article referred to an economist incorrectly. He is Philip Verleger.


GRAPHIC: President Clinton proposed a broad tax covering most forms of energy in January. Here is how the proposal changed by the time it passed in the House last week.

 	 	 	 			JANUARY	HOUSE			PROPOSAL	VERSION	 	 	 	 	TAX RATES	Base rate	25.7	26.8 		Supplemental	 	 	(Per million British	rate	34.2	34.2 	 Thermal Units)*	Full rate	59.9	61.0	 	 	 	 	GASOLINE	Farm use	Full	Base 		Other	Full	Full 		Ethanol	No tax	Full 	LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS (L.P.G.)		Base	Full 	DIESEL	Farm use	Full	Base 		Other	Full	Full 	HEATING OIL	Residential	Full	Base 		Other buildings	Full	Base 		Other uses	Full	Full 	RESIDENTIAL FUEL OIL		Full	Full 	PETROLEUM COKE		Full	Full	NATURAL GAS	Residential	Base	Base 		Commercial	Base	Base 		Industrial	Base	Base 		Enhanced	 	 		oil recovery**	Base	No tax	COAL		Base	Base 	ELECTRICITY		No tax	Base 	HYDROELECTIC POWER		Base	Base 	NUCLEAR POWER		Base	Base	 	 	 	 	WHO PAYS THE TAX	Coal	Coal mine	Consumer		Oil	Refinery	Terminal			Pipeline	 		Natural gas	input	Utility		Electricity	No tax	Consumer	
 
Feedstock fuel (fuel used as a raw material in manufacturing) would not be taxed to the extent that it is actually incorporated inot a finished product.
 
*British Thermal Units, or B.T.U.'s, measure the energy content of fuel. One B.T.U. is the energy required to raise the temperature of a pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. A gallon of gasoline has about 125,000 B.T.U.'s.
 
**Enhanced oil recovery is a process in which natural gas is used to pump especially heavy crude oil out of the ground.
 
(Source: Philip Verlager, Institute for International Economics) (pg. A14)
Table: "Then and Now: Clinton's Energy Tax Plan"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; DIESEL POWER; FUEL; EXCISE TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); VALUE ADDED TAX (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); EXCISE TAX (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1993



44 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: AIDES SAY CLINTON WILL DROP NOMINEE FOR POST ON RIGHTS

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to withdraw the nomination of Lani Guinier to head the Justice Department's civil rights division, White House officials said today, an acknowledgement that her chances of winning confirmation have evaporated under an assault by critics of her proposals to bolster the political power of minorities.
The decision came at the end of a day in which Mr. Clinton publicly said he disagreed with some of her writings and offered only lukewarm support. 
 White House officials said President Clinton decided this evening that he could no longer win a fight to confirm Ms. Guinier in the face of growing Senate opposition to her nomination. The officials said that only the timing and manner of Ms. Guinier's withdrawal remained to be worked out.
 
Nominee Won't Withdraw
 But at the end of the day on "Nightline," the ABC television program, Ms. Guinier gave no indication that she was about to withdraw. While acknowledging that "the nomination has proved to be a lot more complicated than anticipated," she said she expected to testify about her philosophy before the Senate Judiciary Committee.
"I am the nominee and am looking forward to an opportunty to present my views to the Senate," she said.
Ms. Guinier steadfastly refused to say whether anyone from the White House had told her the nomination was dead.
The abandonment of the nomination was one of several maneuvers today by the Clinton Administration to try to clear away obstacles interfering with the President's efforts to reclaim the political center and to steer his economic proposals through Congress.
Administration officials said they would probably delay unveiling their health-care reforms until July or August or possibly even September, effectively putting off until next year a project that Mr. Clinton had said must be completed this year. [Page A20.]
 
Move Toward Center
 Officials also said the Administration had delayed plans to push for a higher minimum wage because of worries about undermining job growth and antagonizing conservatives and the business community while the President's budget hung in the balance.
Asked this afternoon about the prospects for her confirmation, Mr. Clinton praised Ms. Guinier (pronounced gwa-NEAR) as a fine lawyer. But he said he would have to take into account the growing opposition in the Senate to her.
At a White House briefing today, George Stephanopoulos, the President's spokesman, repeatedly declined to go beyond vague statements of support for Ms. Guinier. He seemed uncomfortable, even pained, as he struggled to deal with the awkward situation of publicly propping up a nomination that was on the verge of collapse.
Ms. Guinier, who has generally declined to speak to reporters about the nomination, has embarked on a campaign to defend herself before senators and newspaper editorial boards. She paid courtesy calls on about 10 senators last week and was scheduled to make more such visits next week. She met with the editorial board of The New York Times today, and a Justice Department official said she had also met with the editorial board of The Washington Post.
On "Nightline," her first public appearance since her nomination, Ms. Guinier seemed to plead for the opportunity to explain her theories before the Senate, which could complicate matters for Mr. Clinton.
 
Opportunity to Respond
 "I would like to have a hearing before the Senate so that the distortions which have been picked up by the media and have been echoed in a game of telephone in which I haven't even had access to the initial speaker -- that I would have an opportunity to respond to those distortions and correct the record," she said. "My own mother does not recognize me in terms of the press and media I have been receiving."
An Administration official said after the broadcast that the television appearance would not change Ms. Guinier's situation. The official said the White House initially did not want Ms. Guinier to appear on the program but acceded to her wishes so that she would have the opportunity to defend herself to a national audience, not in any hopes of reviving her candidacy.
"She wanted to go on," the official said. "The general rule at the White House is that you don't go on television until you are confirmed."
On Tuesday, Administration officials said several top White House aides believed the Guinier nomination would have to be withdrawn, and a senior Democratic Senator said as many as two dozen Democrats in the Senate had told the White House the nomination should be withdrawn. The Senator, who declined to be identified, also said Ms. Guinier would not be able to win approval in the Judiciary Committee.
Asked today about Ms. Guinier, Mr. Clinton said: "I think that I have to talk to some of the senators about it because of the reservations that have been raised both publicly and privately.
"I want to reaffirm two positive things about her. One is everyone can see she is a first-rate civil rights lawyer, and no real civil rights lawyer has ever held that position before -- someone who's made a career of it.
"Secondly, I think any reasonable reading of her writings would lead someone to conclude that a lot of the attacks cannot be supported by a fair reading of the writings. And that's not to say that I agree with everything in the writings. I don't. But I think that a lot of what has been said is not accurate. On the other hand, I have to take into account where the Senate is and I will be doing that and talking to them. I think until I do that, I should have nothing else to say."
One other incident in Mr. Clinton's recent past suggests that when he offers seemingly half-hearted words of support for an embattled nominee, that person ought to not quit her current job too soon.
When public opinion began to turn sharply against the President's first choice to be Attorney General, Zoe Baird, amid a furor over her hiring of two illegal immigrants as household workers, Mr. Clinton and his spokesmen said they had no plans to withdraw their support, an expression similar to one offered by official White House spokesmen today. Soon afterward, the Baird nomination was withdrawn.
 
Majority Rule Faulted
 Ms. Guinier, a 43-year-old law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who is a friend of both the President and Hillary Rodham Clinton, has been criticized for writings in which she argues that majority rule is often insufficient to guarantee blacks their fair share in the political process.
In articles in the University of Michigan and University of Virginia law reviews, Ms. Guinier has written that even if blacks are elected, they will always be in the minority and may be outvoted and ignored as important decisions are made. For such cases, she has proposed several alternative voting schemes to enlarge the influence of black lawmakers.
Her supporters say that her views have been distorted and that her proposed solutions would apply only in isolated cases of extremely resistant racism.
Civil rights groups rallied to Ms. Guinier's defense and asked Mr. Clinton to do the same. "We're urging him to stand tall on an excellent nomination," Jesse Jackson said at a news conference.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lani Guinier (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (US) AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CIVIL RIGHTS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); BUDGETS (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: GUINIER, LANI; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWIS, NEIL A BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



45 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
NO PRISON FOR WINNIE MANDELA
South Africa's highest appeals court upheld Winnie Mandela's conviction for the kidnapping of four black youths, but said she would not go to prison for her role in a crime that opened deep wounds in the anti-apartheid movement. A1
 
GUATEMALAN IN EL SALVADOR
News analysis: When President Jorge Serrano Elias startled Guatemalans last week with the announcement that he was dissolving the Congress and suspending the Constitution, his seizure of power seemed to have been accomplished at a stroke. The military backed his actions. The President has now fled to El Salvador, this time after the army ousted him. A3
 

DRUG TUNNEL INTO U.S. IS FOUND
While searching for the killers of a Mexican cardinal, the police discovered an elaborate cocaine-smuggling tunnel that was being dug under the Mexican border, ending on the outskirts of San Diego. A5
 
YUGOSLAV POLITICS GET HOTTER
The politics of Yugoslavia sharpened as President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia was attacked as "totalitarian" by opponents. At the same time, after a night of violent anti-Government street demonstrations in which 32 people were injured and a policeman was killed, riot police kept a conspicuous presence on the streets of Belgrade. A14
 
ETHNIC STRIFE FEARED IN BALKANS
The deputy head of United Nations forces in the Balkans said that ethnic strife in the Kosovo region of southern Serbia and in Croatia was potentially more dangerous than the current fighting in Bosnia. A14
 
MUSLIM VILLAGES HIT IN BOSNIA
The Sarajevo radio reported that Serbian nationalists had overrun several Muslim villages in the Gorazde enclave in eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina. The radio reports said the Serbian tank and infantry assaults were coming from all directions and they spoke of thousands of refugees fleeing toward Gorazde, which also came under heavy shelling. A14
 
GUARDING ST. PETERSBURG CHARM
As the guardians of St. Petersburg's historical legacy nervously watch the fragile and beautiful Russian city edge its way toward a market economy, worries grow over how much of the city's delicate majesty will be retained. A6
 
U.S. IN RARE NORTH KOREA TALKS
The United States, in rare diplomatic talks in New York, began a last-ditch effort to persuade North Korea to ease a dispute over nuclear weapons by reversing its decision to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. No significant progress was reported. A9
 
Sihanouk trying to broker peace settlement in Cambodia. A8
 
Italians ponder their heritage in the wake of the Uffizi blast. A7
 
Clinton told Canada would send troops for Haiti blockade. A5
 
Guadalajara Journal: Recalling the horror of the 1992 sewer explosions. A4
 
National A16-21, D22
 
NOMINATION IS CALLED DOOMED
Acknowledging that Lani Guinier had little chance of being confirmed to head the Justice Department's civil rights division, White House officials said President Clinton would withdraw her nomination. A1
 
DELAY IN PUSH FOR WAGE INCREASE
The Administration has delayed plans to push for an increase in the minimum wage, fearing that the proposal would antagonize conservatives whose votes are needed to pass the budget bill. A1
 
The President again postponed announcing his health-care plan. A20
 
MCI'S BIG BRITISH ALLIANCE
British Telecommunications plans to buy one-fifth of MCI Communications for $4.3 billion and form an alliance to provide global networks for multinational corporations. A1
 
MOYNIHAN ON THE FRONT LINE
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a novice as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, faces a challenge shepherding the budget bill through the panel. A1
 
LIBEL FOUND IN NEW YORKER CASE
A jury in the $7.5 million libel suit brought by a psychoanalyst against a writer for The New Yorker magazine said it had found libel but was deadlocked on damages. A1
 
TEXAS RACE HANGS ON ATTACKS
The last week of Texas's Senate race features incumbent Bob Krueger's attacks on the front-runner, Kay Bailey Hutchison, who is attacking President Clinton. A16
 
BUCKING CULTURAL TRADITIONS
Michael Woo could become the first Asian-American mayor of a major city next week when Los Angeles votes. But he has had to break with cultural traditions to get there. A16
 
FORMER OFFICIAL PLEADS GUILTY
William Webster, ex-Attorney General of Missouri, pleaded guilty to Federal charges of conspiracy and misapplication of funds. A17
 
MASTECTOMY NOT ALWAYS NEEDED
Women with a common type of breast cancer are often given full mastectomies, but a study says the operations are not necessary. A18
 
POLLUTION FINE IS CRITICIZED
Critics say a $11.1 million fine against a company that falsely reported its plants' pollution fell far short of what was needed. D22
 
UNIONS RETURN TO RECRUITING
Turning to young organizers, more unions are trying to reverse years of dwindling membership. D22
 
A Texas court granted a 30-day stay of execution to Gary Graham. A19
 
No nonprescription smoking deterrents work, the F.D.A. said. A21
 
Metro Digest B1
 
UPHILL ON BROADWAY
Rising costs of labor, lavish sets and the cost of top-name talent are among the reasons why the odds against a show making money on Broadway are greater than ever. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-12
 
Through a child's eyes, history and tragedy. C1
 
A visit with Julia Louis-Dreyfus: She who gives "Steinfeld" estrogen. C1
 
The nature spirits amid the
concrete. C1
 
House tour shows diversity of
Harlem's soul. C6
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Friends revive Ballet Theater. C13
 
The Cliburn Competition. C13
Music: Minnelli and Aznavour. C13
 
Dance: By Massine. C13
 
Books: Turow's new novel. C18
 
Television: Critics Notebook C17
 
Sports B9-16
 
Basketball: Bulls topple Knicks. B9
 
Columns: Anderson on the N.B.A. playoffs. B9
 
On Pro Basketball. B9
 
Obituaries D23-24
 
Frederick M. Glass, an ex- transportation official. D23
 
Johnny Mize, a Hall of Fame baseball player. D24
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
A deal on the economic plan.
 
Guatemala democracy recouped?
 
Joyce Purnick: Crown Heights.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Sad state of State.
 
Carol M. Swain: Black-majority districts -- a bad idea.
 
Igor D. Spassky: Apathy above, terror below.
 
Michael S. McPherson, Morton Owen Schapiro: What price patriotism?
 
Chronicle B8
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); EL SALVADOR (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CROATIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); EL SALVADOR (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CROATIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SMUGGLING (75%); REFUGEES (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); RIOTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); COCAINE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



46 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Untested Role for Moynihan in Budget Fight

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan has played many roles in many areas of public life, ranging happily from foreign to domestic policy, from ethnic conflict on the international scene to the problems of children and poverty at home.
But the New York Democrat is still a novice as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, a job he began six months ago, and he faces the challenge of a chairman's lifetime. President Clinton's economic plan has lurched through the House -- just barely -- and landed with a somewhat ominous thud in Mr. Moynihan's lap. 
 The nine Republicans on the Finance Committee are considered certain to vote no, so Mr. Moynihan must hold all 10 of his fellow Democrats if he is to prevail. And one of them, Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma, has given new definition to the word "renegade," although he seemed to be inching back to the fold this week.
 
Zen-Like Simplicity
 After 16 years in the Senate, Mr. Moynihan is known as a scholar, a challenger of conventional wisdom and a wit. But he is not known as an arm-twister or a Presidential enforcer. The question of toughness inevitably arises. "We'll see, won't we?" he replied coolly last weekend.
The discursive Mr. Moynihan, whose conversation often rambles into obscure pockets of history and general lore, describes his present task with Zen-like simplicity. "We have to find 11 votes on the Finance Committee, at a minimum 51 votes on the floor," he said in an interview on Saturday. "We have to pass the bill, and we will."
Yes, there will be changes, he said: more spending cuts and revisions in the proposed energy tax that has caused such anxiety in oil-producing states. Yes, he said, he is meeting with the President, and working toward a compromise with his colleagues, notably Mr. Boren.
"In the end he said he would be with us," Mr. Moynihan said of Mr. Boren. "And he will. This is the first Democratic President we've had in 12 years. We asked to be given a chance to show we can govern. There are some arguments that come down to, 'You have to.' "
Mr. Moynihan's allies note that this is not the first time he has faced the task of moving a huge bill, laden with provisions that rouse the protective instincts of every senator who breathes. He was a prime mover behind the huge transportation law of 1991 and, says Senator Tom Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat, "I think he surprised a lot of people with his ability to bring about a consensus."
Still, consensus is not a word that comes to mind in the Finance Committee these days. The Republicans, who often work with the Democrats on this panel, backed out early, in keeping with the solid wall of Republican opposition in the House.
"I asked Bob Packwood about five weeks ago, 'Are you guys going to be part of this budget process?' " Mr. Moynihan said, referring to the ranking Republican on the committee. "And he said, 'No, can't be with you on this one.' "
 
Just Basic Politics
 "We had the same thing when we had to increase the debt ceiling," he continued. "We did it on an 11-to-9 vote, and the Republicans made speeches suggesting the tyranny of the majority, but there was no heat in it."
It was basic politics, Mr. Moynihan suggested, "all very friendly, perfectly straightforward." He added, "What upsets me is when people say one thing and do another."
What was not basic politics, however, was the conduct of Mr. Boren, a damaging voice of Democratic opposition in recent weeks, taking his case against the energy tax to the talk shows, holding forth on his demand for greater spending cuts. Senators often break ranks with their party, but rarely so visibly, and rarely when the stakes are so achingly high.
Mr. Moynihan, in keeping with his role as broker, maintained that Mr. Boren was only temporarily a prodigal son. Mr. Moynihan offered Mr. Boren a way back into the family on Saturday, when Mr. Moynihan signaled that he and the Administration were ready to scale back the size of the energy tax. The next day, on the CBS News program "Face the Nation," Mr. Boren was a model of conciliation. The process, as they say on Capitol Hill, was moving forward -- at least for the moment.
"I think what Senator Boren needed to see was that the chairman and the President were ready to move in his direction on some of these things," said Lawrence O'Donnell, chief of staff of the Finance Committee. "It was very important and perfectly timed to continue the momentum coming out of the House."
Mr. O'Donnell added: "The remaining hurdles are the details, on both the tax side and the spending cuts side. But the spirit seems to be coming back."
As the Boren episode suggests, the job of finance chairman requires more than just muscle. The chairman is part family therapist, part tax attorney, piecing together bills that satisfy enough egos, enough parochial interests, enough philosophical beliefs to pass. Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana, a former chairman, once described the job's basic quandary succinctly: "Don't tax you. Don't tax me. Tax that fellow behind the tree."
 
Breadwinner for Constituents
 Not to put too fine a point on it, but the finance chairmanship entails another equally important role: breadwinner for the voters back home. Influencing how the Government raises trillions of dollars -- and from whom -- is one of Congress's most precious powers.
Past chairmen, like Mr. Long and Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, have not been shy about using it to advance pet state interests from oil to real estate. In time, New York's sprawling constituencies are likely to look to Mr. Moynihan for no less.
"One of the things that it means to be chairman is that the White House always has to stop and think before proposing anything: Is this bad for New York?" Mr. O'Donnell said. "There is nothing on the top priority list of this President that does not go through the Finance Committee."
But while Mr. Moynihan has brought home his share of the bacon, he is curiously constrained, for now, from being publicly political about his new role. As the steward of Mr. Clinton's budget package, his first job is to win the votes of fellow Finance Committee members, a nonpartisan duty that entails handing out tax breaks more than acquiring them. "With a Democratic President," Mr. O'Donnell said, "the burden of the chairmanship is that you have to do so much of the President's bidding."
 
He's No Lloyd Bentsen
 Democrats on the Finance Committee said Mr. Moynihan brings a much different style to the job than did Mr. Bentsen, who was chairman of the committee for six years before becoming Treasury Secretary in Mr. Clinton's Cabinet.
"Bentsen was more of a chairman of the board," said Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana. "Pat is a freewheeling-type spirit who has a tremendous mind."
Mr. Daschle noted that the two chairmen's interests also differed substantially: Mr. Bentsen's focus had been on taxes; Mr. Moynihan's was on social policy.
Mr. Moynihan also confronts a strikingly different political scene: a Democratic Presidency that could well rise or fall on the success of its economic proposals, most of which must make their way through his committee. "The expectations for him are tremendous -- deliver, just deliver," said a Democratic Senator who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
An Administration official said, "There's a general feeling that this will be a real tough test for him, as tough as any freshman chairman ever faced."
Mr. Moynihan's relations with the Administration showed signs of strain earlier this year, when a quotation attributed to an anonymous Administration official in Time magazine suggested that the White House intended to "roll right over" Mr. Moynihan if necessary. The President scolded members of his staff afterward, telling them that Mr. Moynihan had been a good friend in the 1992 campaign, particularly during the New York primary, when Mr. Clinton took on former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California and his proposal for a "flat tax."
"Clinton said that when we were fighting for our lives in New York, this guy really came through for us," a White House official said.
 
He's Still Unpredictable
 But Mr. Moynihan retains his unpredictable streak; he has not suddenly become a disciplined partisan messagemeister like the House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. For example, the Senator delivered a stinging denunciation of the Administration's policy in Bosnia on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" earlier this month.
And in an interview over the weekend, he chatted happily for a while about the history and the language of taxation, even amid hard revenue estimates and the nuances of the energy tax. He bemoaned, for example, the "impenetrable language of the budget clerisy." (According to Webster's, the well-educated or learned class.)
He noted that there was a strong possibility of surprises in the House bill, adding, "Once we enacted the phone number of one of the staffers: 'Beverly, call Evelyn.' "
And he noted that the Federal Government's experience with raising taxes is comparatively short. "We used to have tariffs," he said. "About half the revenue of the Federal Government came from tariffs collected in the Port of New York."
Musing about the struggle ahead, he said: "Nobody's very good at this. But we'll pull through."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan talking on the phone with Representative Dan Rostenkowski from his home in upstate New York. (pg. A1); Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan outside the old stable at his home in Oneonta, N.Y. (pg. A20) (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Daniel Patrick Moynihan"
 
Born: March 16, 1927, Tulsa, Okla.
 
Hometown: Oneonta, N.Y.
 
Educaiton: Benjamin Franklin High School, Manhattan; B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. from Tufts University.
 
Career highlights: 1955-58, assistant to Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York; 1963-65, Assistant Secretary of Labor; 1965-69, director, Joint Center for Urban Studies, M.I.T. and Harvard; 1969-70, assistant to the President for urban affairs; 1973-75, Ambassador to India; 1975-76, United States representative at the United Nations; 1976, elected to the United States Senate.
 
Family: Married to Elizabeth Brennan; two sons and one daughter.
 
Interests: Writing (he has just published his 16th book).
 
(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



47 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Plans to push for a higher minimum wage have been delayed by the Clinton Administration because of worries about undermining job growth and antagonizing conservatives and business executives while the President's budget hangs in the balance. [Page A1.]
The index of leading indicators edged up a puny tenth of a percent in April, and new-home sales surged. But analysts said the reports pointed to a continuation of a sluggish recovery. [D1.] 
 President Clinton has again delayed his health-care proposal, allowing Hillary Rodham Clinton's task force to expire. [A20.]
Broadway is still perilous for investors despite a successful season for ticket sales and signs of a busy fall ahead. [A1.]
Competitive bids will be required for all underwriting contracts by New York City under legislation to be proposed. [B3.]
 
Companies
British Telecommunications plans to buy one-fifth of MCI Communications for $4.3 billion and form an alliance to provide global networks for multinational corporations. [A1.]
Syntex's nonprescription version of Naprosyn was rejected by an F.D.A. panel, denying extended patent protection. [D1.]
A Nintendo publicity stunt that went awry got things off to a ragged start at the Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago. [D1.]
General Motors dealers are offering leases for most used mid-size and larger G.M. cars and trucks up to three years old. [D4.]
Circle K's sale to Investcorp for $399.5 million was approved by a bankruptcy judge, who rejected a rival plan by debt holders. [D4.]
Allstate raised more than $2.1 billion by selling 78.5 million shares to underwriters, who will offer the shares at $27 each. [D4.]
Marion Merrell Dow will enter a licensing agreement and invest $10 million in Sepracor to erosion in sales of Seldane. [D4.]
Munsingwear sued Jockey, saying new Jockey briefs copy the horizontal fly design it has used for more than 50 years. [D4.]
Viacom and A.T.& T. detailed plans to test new cable television technology for on-demand movies, video games and shopping. [D5.]
Carolco defaulted on a $15 million I.O.U. to Hollywood's labor guilds, increasing the risk of seizure and bankruptcy. [D8.]
The huge Federal pollution penalty against Louisiana-Pacific is being called too lenient by some officials. [D22.]
General Electric donated its former Manhattan headquarters to Columbia University for a $40 million tax deduction. [B3.]
 
International
Major industrial nations said they were condident that progress had been made toward a breakthrough in lowering tariff barriers. Officials meeting in Paris said they expect broad agreement by next month, which would give new impetus to completion of a worldwide trade accord by the end of the year. [D1.]
Renault of France has proved more nimble and innovative than most of its competitors in the European car market. [D1.]
 
Markets
The stock market rose modestly, with the Dow industrials, up 1.11 point, coming tantalizingly close to another record. [D10.]
The improved outlook for President Clinton's deficit reduction plan appears to be lifting the tax-exempt bond market. [D18.]
Lumber leaped after the Government reported a sharp rise in home sales. [D19.] The dollar rose and gold declined. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
Curbing trade with China over human rights would be difficult of the President. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Faithful Heart Technology shareholders were vindicated when a key device was approved by the F.D.A. Market Place. [D10.]
Products previously sold only on infomercials are now showing up on store shelves. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); 7974 (TSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); ALL (NYSE) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); NINTENDO CO LTD (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); ALLSTATE CORP (54%); VIACOM INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); PATENTS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); UNDERWRITING AGREEMENTS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); FILM (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); STOCK OFFERINGS (63%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (61%); TRADE SHOWS (51%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



48 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A Cold-war Trade Weapon Isn't Used on China and May Never Be.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
TRAPPED between his own campaign rhetoric and the advice of both the business and foreign policy establishments, President Clinton punted. China, he announced last week, would have one more year of open trade with America. Thereafter, renewal of China's "most favored nation" trade status would depend on the Old Guard's willingness to slip gently into the democratic night.
Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat who has led the Congressional push to punish China for Tiananmen and Tibet, pronounced herself satisfied with "President Clinton's commitment to human rights and democratic freedoms." But it is still difficult to imagine how the President will be able to wield the trade weapon with much effect when the deadline passes. For as the tough old Communists who still rule the roost in China apparently understand, closing down trade would undermine a variety of American interests. 
 "Clinton has bought time," concludes Pei Minxin, a professor of politics at Princeton University. "But he has not dug his way out of his China problem." Indeed, the M.F.N. option may prove a liability in dealing with the world's newest candidate for economic superpower status.
Virtually all countries automatically benefit from the lowest tariff rates negotiated by America. But under 1974 legislation, "nonmarket" economies are eligible for so-called most favored nation status only if the President annually certifies that open trade will advance the cause of human rights. Congress has 90 days to disapprove of the President's decision. The White House, in turn, has the authority to veto the disapproval, subject to a two-thirds override by both House and Senate.
One limitation on the weapon is that it was designed for the cold war rather than for an era in which even the bad guys pay lip service to free markets: Nobody is about to use the Jackson-Vanik proviso to revoke the M.F.N. status of the tyrants who rule the Syrians, Zairians or Burmese. A less obvious limitation is that trade is, in practice, a problematic instrument for advancing human rights.
On first look, revocation of M.F.N. seems a punch that China would dare not absorb. China runs a $20 billion-plus trade surplus with America, exporting roughly three times as much as it imports. That surplus is what makes it possible for the world's fastest-growing economy to finance its development without foreign borrowing.
Were M.F.N. revoked, tariffs on China's leading exports to the United States -- everything from shoes to clothing to consumer electronics -- would rise from the 4 to 12 percent currently to as high as 70 percent. Sales to America would collapse since Wal-Mart and Sears could obtain similar sweaters, jogging gear and boom boxes more cheaply from Malaysia, Thailand or Mexico.
But that is far from the whole story. While China is a net exporter to America, it still imports billions of dollars of American goods that would be vulnerable to retaliation. It is already a major customer of American aircraft, computer and construction equipment makers. And because it is growing so rapidly, China could soon rival the big European economies both as a market for manufactured exports and as a location for foreign factories to serve domestic demand.
Boeing, Caterpillar, Motorola and company know Japanese, European and South Korean rivals are waiting for openings -- a fact that helps explain why 298 large American corporations and 37 trade associations signed a letter last month urging President Clinton to stay the course.
As important, argues Richard Fisher, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, the economic fate of Taiwan and Hong Kong is rapidly becoming hostage to China's trade fortunes.
Taiwan's and Hong Kong's export surpluses with America have been falling at roughly the same pace that China's surplus has been growing -- and by no coincidence. High wages in these two hugely successful economies are driving entrepreneurs to shift labor-intensive production to the mainland, creating an integrated Chinese economy that Paul Armington and Uri Dadush of the World Bank have dubbed the world's "fourth economic pole." Cutting off American trade with the mainland would smash Taiwan's and Hong Kong's multibillion-dollar earnings from a variety of auxiliary services such as banking and shipping, not to mention their returns from mainland investments.
A more perplexing issue facing Bill Clinton is how to use the threat of trade barriers to do greater harm to democracy's enemies on the mainland than to its allies. The success of export-oriented free enterprise in southern coastal China has weakened Beijing's political grip there and, by example, has discredited Communism in the bitterly poor interior. "Free trade makes sense even on human rights grounds," Mr. Fisher concludes.
A year is a long time on the roller coaster of international power politics. If Mr. Clinton is lucky, political liberalization will proceed from domestic pressures and thereby free him from a face-off with China's masters. If he is not, the President may be stuck with a weapon that looks more like a doomsday machine than a smart bomb.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (64%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CHINA CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (64%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



49 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: President Again Postpones Unveiling of a Health Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
Preoccupied with efforts to win approval for his economic program, President Clinton has again postponed his proposal to remake the nation's medical system and has allowed his wife's task force on health care to expire.
As a result of the new delays by the Administration, Congress is highly unlikely to pass comprehensive health-care legislation this year. In a speech on Feb. 17, Mr. Clinton said Congress must pass such legislation "this year -- not next year, not five years from now, but this year." 
 The Task Force on National Health Care Reform, headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, went out of existence on Sunday. The 12-member panel, created with fanfare four months ago, analyzed hundreds of options, but never finished the work for which it was created by Mr. Clinton: to prepare comprehensive health-care legislation for submission to Congress.
White House officials said today that the task force had expired without deciding how to carry out Mr. Clinton's campaign pledges to control health costs and to guarantee health insurance coverage for all Americans.
Describing the likelihood of further delays, White House officials said today that Mr. Clinton would probably not unveil his health-care proposal till July or August or possibly even September. In early July, Mr. Clinton is scheduled to go to Japan for an economic conference with leaders of other industrial countries.
 
'Focusing on Passing Budget'
 "There's been no decision for a sustained delay here," Mr. Clinton said today. "But I'm focusing right now on passing the budget when the Senate comes back next week."
Work on the President's health-care plan seems to have lost some momentum as Mr. Clinton and top White House officials try to persuade senators to raise taxes and cut the growth of popular Government spending programs.
Mr. Clinton has postponed meetings where he was to have discussed the health-care plan with his advisers on economic and health policy. White House officials said Mr. Clinton was still weighing these questions, among others: What new taxes should the Government impose on employers to pay for health care? Should the Government regulate doctors' fees, hospital charges and drug prices? Which companies will have to buy coverage for their employees through health insurance purchasing pools?
The charter establishing the task force said it "will terminate on May 30" unless the President renews its charter. Mr. Clinton took no action to extend its life.
But doctors are still demanding access to work papers and records of the task force, and the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is expected to rule soon on their lawsuit.
Haley Barbour, the new chairman of the Republican National Committee, said today that the delays in Mr. Clinton's health plan reflected Democratic concern about public disenchantment with certain features of the plan: higher payroll and tobacco taxes and "the potential for a hugely increased Government role in medicine."
But Mr. Barbour said "you will see overwhelming Republican support for some insurance reform," to guarantee that small businesses and people with high medical risks can buy coverage at affordable prices.
The Administration's deadline for submitting health-care legislation to Congress has repeatedly slipped since March. In early April, Administration officials said that President Clinton probably could not meet the deadline of May 3 that he had set for unveiling his health-care plan. Some officials were quoted then as saying they hoped to complete work by late May or early June, while others said July or August was a more realistic goal.
Commenting on that report, Robert O. Boorstin, a spokesman for the task force, said then: "We are very much on schedule. This process is on track, on time, and it is working. We will produce a health-care reform package in May of this year."
The Administration's goal for finishing the health plan slipped to May 17 and then to mid-June, and now officials refuse to specify a date for submitting legislation to Congress.
 
Staff Changes Cited as Cause
 Aides to Mr. Clinton said today that changes on the White House staff and the search for a Supreme Court nominee had slowed efforts to design the health plan. The hiring of David R. Gergen as counselor to the President may contribute to further delays.
In U.S. News & World Report, where he was editor at large, Mr. Gergen wrote last month: "Clinton needs to refocus attention on his economic plan, especially on the creation of jobs, and postpone his health-care proposals until fall. Otherwise, he risks loss of both."
Mr. Clinton created the task force on Jan. 25. Its staff eventually numbered more than 500.
Explaining the latest delays, Mr. Clinton said today: "We're trying to, first of all, get as many of the kinks worked out as we can before we go forward. It's an enormously complicated issue. And then we want to make sure that we have, you know, discussed it with as many people as possible, as many groups and everything, after we've reached some final conclusions, and that when we present it to the Congress, it's presented at a time and in a way that both the Congress and the American people can focus on it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT'S TASK FORCE ON NATIONAL HEALTH CARE REFORM

ORGANIZATION: PRESIDENT'S TASK FORCE ON NATIONAL HEALTH CARE REFORM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); TAX INCREASES (67%); LITIGATION (64%); DRUG PRICES (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



50 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Advocating Vigorous Action on Clean Water

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Water has seldom been an issue in New York City in this century, but as the city squares off with Washington over whether a multibillion-dollar filtration plant is needed, environmentalists are working to make clean water as politically urgent as crime or taxes.
The Federal Environmental Protection Agency wants New York City to filter its water, as all other major American cities do, but the plant would cost up to $8 billion to build and $300 million a year to operate, forcing sharp increases in water rates. The city has won a reprieve with a promise to protect its 2,000-square-mile watershed upstate, by committing $47 million this year for buying property, among other actions.
 
Forestalling Filtration
 But the environmentalists want the city to take more vigorous action to forestall filtration. They plan an eight-mile Walk for Water on Saturday, part fund-raiser and part protest, at Croton Gorge Park in Ossining. Lewis Rudin, the real-estate developer, has helped charter a Metro-North commuter train that can carry 1,000 people from Grand Central Terminal to the Croton-Harmon station, near the reservoir. Organizers say that the Port Imperial Ferry Service will send two boats, each with a capacity of 200 people, up the Hudson from a pier at West 38th Street in Manhattan. 
 The organizers hope to raise $200,000 for lobbying and lawsuits, but the march is also an effort to spur the city on. The Dinkins administration is not certain whether the organizers are allies or adversaries. The organizers are not sure either.
"We're not going to do any better than Dinkins," said Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer for the Hudson Riverkeeper, which is sponsoring the event along with the Open Space Institute, a land trust based in Ossining. "At the same time," Mr. Kennedy said, "I see that Mayor Dinkins is balancing a lot of different problems right now and it's our job to make this a priority, without seeing him thrown out of office."
 
Protecting the Watershed
 City officials assert that they are doing all they can to protect the watershed, as an alternative to building a filtration plant.
"I would hope we will make common cause," said Barbara J. Fife, the Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development, who said that she and Albert F. Appleton, Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, will probably participate. "I do believe we're all headed in the same direction," she said.
Many experts say a filtration plant would be a blow. At the Regional Plan Association, John E. Feingold, a director, said, "The city having to carry another infrastructure investment in the neighborhood of $5 to $7 billion, plus $200 to $300 million to operate the thing, could have a real effect on the city's economy, raising water rates and making the cost of business yet higher."
One tactic, he said, is land-use control. "You've got 78 villages and towns comprising 2,000 square miles in the watershed," he said. "Each one makes its own land-use decisions." Only about half have zoning or other land-use controls, he said.
The Dinkins administration has no apologies. "If you look at what we've done over the last three years, I think we have a sensational record," Mr. Appleton said. New York City has brought 25 suits under Federal clean water laws, he said. It has forced the United States Postal Service to drop plans to build a distribution center near Westchester County Airport, forced Putnam Hospital Center in Carmel, N.Y., to improve its sewage system, put administrative machinery in place to begin buying land in the watershed, and begun working with upstate towns on land-use planning.
 
Options to Buy Land
 But the city, under its agreement with Washington, is supposed to announce by the end of this month that it has signed options to buy $15 million worth of land in the watershed, and Mr. Kennedy predicted that the city would miss the deadline. Mr. Appleton said it was too soon to tell.
Environmentalists are considering a highly public effort to get the city to move faster. The Riverkeeper and the Creative Coalition, a group of New York City actors and others in the entertainment field, have raised nearly $300,000 in cash and services for an ad campaign on radio and billboards. The billboards, designed by Kirschenbaum & Bond, are designed for shock value. One shows a urine sample glass with a drinking straw in it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; FINANCES US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UTILITY RATES (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); LOBBYING (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); TRAINS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); FERRIES (66%); SPONSORSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



51 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Big Nations Optimistic On Tariffs

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, June 2

 BODY:
The major industrial nations said today that they were optimistic about soon reaching a breakthrough in their long, start-and-stop efforts to lower barriers to world trade.
Finance and trade ministers from the United States and the other largest economic powers, meeting here, said that they expected by next month to reach broad agreement in amajor category of their negotiations -- eliminating or reducing tariffs on hundreds of products. 
 This would give new impetus to the completion of a formal worldwide trade pact by the end of the year.
Negotiations toward a worldwide agreement, which have been going on for more than six years under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, must still overcome two other difficult problems -- differences between the United States and the European Community on dealings in food and other agricultural products, and the complexities of turning general agreements into specific rules.
 
Both Cohesion and Friction
 The optimism here today was further tempered by strains between the United States and Japan over Japan's huge, and growing, trade surplus.
But officials said that the apparent willingness of the Europeans to agree with the United States, Japan and Canada on tariff cuts would allow the large nations to present a united front and to exert pressure on smaller countries to sign on to a tariff plan.
Successfully completing tariff negotiations would remove one of the biggest hurdles to completion of a deal among the 110 nations who are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
The United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, was among those here expressing optimism. "We are at least within striking distance of the outline of the largest market-access package in history," he said at a news conference.
The officials said they hoped to complete their work on tariffs before President Clinton and the other leaders of the seven largest industrial nations, the Group of Seven, or in shorthand, the G-7, meet in Tokyo beginning on July 7. Trade ministers from these nations -- the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan -- will meet there a few days earlier, toward the end of this month, to try to wrap up a deal.
"It's realistic to aim for an outline agreement on market access by the time of the G-7 summit," said Sir Leon Brittan, a former British Cabinet member who is the top negotiator for the 12-nation European Community. Until today, the community had sent mixed signals on its willingness to reach a tariff agreement before the economic summit meeting. "Today's meeting was an important step in the GATT process," Sir Leon said.
It was unclear what concessions might now have to be made by Clinton Administration officials or by those of other countries to secure a tariff agreement. Those taking part in the talks here, which are being held under the auspices of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, released no details of the proposals on the table.
 
Bentsen Lectures Japanese
 Amid all the optimism, there was renewed sniping between the United States and Japan over trade and economic policy. The American Secretary of the Treasury, Lloyd Bentsen, told the meeting that the Japanese Government, despite its announcement in April of a new package of public spending, could do still more to stimulate its faltering economy and to increase the demand for imports.
"Japan's trade and current-account surpluses continue to expand, as domestic demand grows even more slowly than income," Mr. Bentsen said. "These surpluses are a global problem. They are hurting world growth. That must change."
Japanese officials struck back by questioning the commitment of the Clinton Administration to free trade, saying that its philosophy of managed trade and its proposal to set numerical goals for exports to Japan were misguided and would be ineffective.
Officials said the United States and Japan were wrangling over the language of a final communique, in which Japan was seeking a condemnation of managed trade.
Despite the tension, Japanese officials said they had brought specific proposals to Paris, worked out in meetings with the United States in the last several months, to remove impediments to trade in financial services. This is an area that has proved troublesome over the course of negotiations. Whatever concessions might be available from the Japanese were not disclosed.
 
What the Sides Might Want
 Indeed, officials declined to discuss in any detail their progress on the broader tariff-reduction issue, saying that they would leave it to the their top national leaders to spell out any agreement next month in Tokyo.
Some objectives are known, though. The United States has been eager to eliminate tariffs in lumber and paper products, construction equipment and electronics. The Europeans seek lower duties on items like textiles, glass and shoes.
As the major nations seemed to be making progress on tariffs, attention here began shifting toward the dispute over agriculture between the United States and Europe.
Although these two sides reached agreement last fall, the deal was subsequently blocked by France, whose politically powerful farmers argued that the arrangement would cause them great economic harm. The conservative French Cabinet that took office a few weeks ago has at times said it would work toward resolving the dispute with Washington.
 
Shriveling of Growth Estimates
 The discussions here came against a background of growing worry about the weakness of the world economy. On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development reduced its estimates of economic growth this year for many of the largest nations, including Japan, which it said would grow only 1 percent in 1993.
At the end of 1992, the O.E.C.D.'s growth estimate for Japan this year was 2.3 percent. Similarly, the organization predicted that Germany's growth would shrink by 1.9 percent this year, compared with an estimate of 1.2 percent growth that it made in December.
The O.E.C.D., a government-financed research and policy-study group, slightly raised its growth estimate for the United States, to 2.6 percent this year from an earlier forecast of 2.4 percent.
Mr. Bentsen, in a briefing for reporters, said he believed that the Administration's own growth estimate of 3.1 percent would be reduced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; EUROPE; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); AGRICULTURE (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



52 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: St. Petersburg Is Fearful That Its Golden Hopes Will Trample on Its Glories

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
The people at the St. Petersburg Inspectorate for the Preservation of Monuments have mixed feelings about what is going on these days at the Yusupov Palace, a mansion on the Moika Canal where Grigory Rasputin, the Siberian monk who wielded a sinister influence over the family of the last czar, met a grisly end in December 1916.
Once the exclusive preserve of the Trade Union of Education Workers, the mansion in the last two years has opened its doors wide to the public -- maybe too wide, some say. Tour groups tramp through the basement, where the famous murder took place, while upstairs elegant rooms, recently restored, are made available for concerts and private parties, including a New Year's Eve gala organized by NeimanMarcus, the Texas-based department store. 
 "There are different ways of looking at it," said Aleksandr V. Pozdnukhov, who heads the city's historic preservation department. "Of course, the union needs the money to maintain the building but we also worry about the damage -- from too many people, from high heels, from people being careless, drinking and smoking."
 
Old Facades; New Uses
 This is a typical quandary these days for the guardians of St. Petersburg's historical legacy as they nervously watch this fragile and beautiful city edge its way toward a market economy. The changes have been slow in coming, but new stores, hotels and restaurants are springing up along Nevsky Prospekt, the city's central avenue, behind 18th- and 19th-century facades retrieved from beneath a heavy coat of Soviet veneer.
The worry here is that the new economic order could overpower St. Petersburg's delicate majesty and sully its artful, asymmetrical vectors of streets and waterways with commercial clutter.
"We worry that by the time of the city's 300th anniversary, we will not be able to keep its development within civilized bounds," said Mr. Pozdnukhov. "The issue here is maintaining a high level of culture."
It has been less than two years since this city, built by Peter the Great on the swampy banks of the Neva River, retrieved its original name from the wreckage of its tumultuous history. As Sankt-Peterburg as it is called in Russian, or "Peter" for short -- a nickname always preferred by its residents even when the maps called it Leningrad -- celebrates its 290th birthday, the city still seems to be juggling its past glory with its current realities.
 
Second-City Status
 Once the elegant capital of a powerful empire, it is now Russia's second-largest city, suffering from the same economic malaise and confusion as the rest of the country, and lagging behind its age-old rival, Moscow, which for seven long decades held it in thrall.
In fact, St. Petersburg, with its 15,000 historic buildings, was spared precisely because the Bolsheviks, after the 1917 revolution, abandoned it for Moscow.
While Moscow's historic center bore the brunt of its new masters' mania for destruction, St. Petersburg's long rows of ornate mansions, which glide above its river and canals like pastel mirages, have remained intact. They are in a bad state of repair, with peeling paint and broken windows, but at least they are standing. The main tourist attractions, like the Winter Palace and St. Isaac's Cathedral, are in relatively good shape.
"The city was simply transported in its entirety into our era, albeit worse for the wear," said Aleksandr V. Kobak, deputy director of the St. Petersburg Cultural Fund, a private group. "It was left alone not because of its beauty but because there wasn't enough money to tear it down."
 
A Mayor's Hopes
 When political change began in the Soviet Union, people here -- most prominently the city's newly elected Mayor and most indefatigable salesman, Anatoly A. Sobchak -- had hopes that the romance of the city and its prime location on the Gulf of Finland would turn it into a showcase not only of architectural splendor, but also of economic renaissance. Soon after his election in 1990, Mr. Sobchak spoke of making the city a "free economic zone," where foreign investors would be lured with tax breaks and liberal land-use policies.
But the idea of St. Petersburg as a unique free-market island in a socialist sea has died a quiet death, killed by political changes in Moscow where a failed coup and the collapse of the Soviet Union led to the creation of a new government, determined to bring economic reform to all of Russia.
Since then, St. Petersburg's fortunes have tended to lag behind Moscow's. While the number of foreign companies investing here is growing, their number is smaller and the impact of new businesses is not as keenly felt as in the capital. For all its attractions and its potential, St. Petersburg is a poor city of five million people with the bad luck to be a major center of the old Soviet defense industry, now faltering after deep cuts in Government orders.
According to Western analysts, though, privatization of small and medium-sized enterprises has moved faster here than in other parts of Russia, and foreign investors speak highly of the educated work force and the cooperation received from the Mayor's office.
 
Big Plans
 The first two foreign banks licensed to open full-scale operations in Russia will be in St. Petersburg, helping sustain Mr. Sobchak's latest dream to make it the financial center of the country. Big projects are on the drawing boards, including a new seaport at Ust-Luga, about 70 miles west of the city, to be financed with private capital in the hope that it will be the largest port on the Baltic Sea by the end of the century.
But continuing squabbles between Mr. Sobchak and the City Council over control of the city's properties -- from industrial sites to prerevolutionary mansions -- have slowed many other projects, including a proposal for several small free economic zones, a scaled-down version of Mr. Sobchak's first scheme.
New Holland, one of the city's many small islands, is one example of a grand idea that went sour. A joint Russian-French project called for the restoration of the island, used for centuries as a storage site for the city, and its conversion to commercial use. But the project ran into heavy political opposition, from -- among others -- nationalists and historic preservationists who objected to the "sale" of the city's treasures to foreigners.
Since then, another plan for the restoration of New Holland has been drawn up, but Mr. Pozdnukhov at the preservation department says its financing and its completion date are now uncertain. Similar disputes have held up other restoration projects, with the result that after all the talk, and all the hopes, much of the old city looks as shabby and neglected as it did in the Soviet era.
"There was a myth that St. Petersburg would turn around quickly, that so many tourists would come, and bring so much money that the city would recover," said Mr. Kobak, the deputy director of the Cultural Fund. "Now three years later, it is clear that was a complete utopia."
To restore St. Petersburg to its full glory would take a huge investment, which neither the city nor the Russian Government can afford, Mr. Kobak said.
"It would not be within the means of any country, let alone a poor one," he said, noting the similarities with Venice, another city built on canals, which even with the help of international organizations is losing its battle to save its heritage.
Like the people at the preservation department, Mr. Kobak is ambivalent about the role played by private capital in historic preservation. He noted cases where entrepreneurs had moved into old buildings and ripped out and sold priceless fireplaces, murals and woodwork that had miraculously survived the Soviet era.
As in Moscow, the privatization of public property here has been rife with corruption, as city officials take advantage of their positions to distribute state-owned real estate. The Cultural Fund itself had to fight attempts to sell its own premises, on Nevsky Prospekt in the building of the old city Duma, right out from under it. "When I got the notice that the building was to be sold on a commercial basis," said Mr. Kobak, "my first thought was, 'Who gave what to whom?' "
Members of St. Petersburg's arts world tend to point to the city's distaste for "commercialization" as something that distinguishes it from Moscow, where as they see it, everything -- except perhaps the Kremlin -- has its price. At the Tam-Tam club, a raucous gathering place for St. Petersburg's "post-punk" generation, the manager points proudly to the fact that the admission price -- now 200 rubles, or roughly 20 cents -- costs less than a ticket to the movies.
"Moscow doesn't have any such places," he said, "or if they do, they charge more and if possible, in dollars."
"In Moscow, it is all 'pop' -- as in, all that is popular," said Leonid Tikhomirov, a musician who is organizing a "World Jeans Festival" outside St. Petersburg this summer. "There, they are closer to power and however much they may try to fight against it, they are still court jokers." The Jeans Festival is an example of St. Petersburg's zany counterculture scene, organized around Mr. Tikhomirov's premise that anyone who wears jeans can take part in it.
But Gely Sysoyev, a St. Petersburg actor who recently starred in an American play about Anastasia, the daughter of the last czar, staged in what had once been her family's private theatre in the Winter Palace, worries that this kind of high-mindedness could prove fatal.
"Right now, Petersburg theater is at a dead end," he said mournfully. "Moscow is way ahead of us. They are more brazen, and they understand commercialism. It is not just a question of money, but of ideas, about how to understand 1993."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the festivities for St. Petersburg's 290th birthday was a balloon race on Saturday starting at St. Isaac Cathedral Square. (N. Adamovich for The New York Times)
 
Map of Russia showing location of St. Petersburg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: TRADE UNION OF EDUCATION (57%); TRADE UNION OF EDUCATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRADE UNION OF EDUCATION (57%); TRADE UNION OF EDUCATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; WATERWAYS AND OTHER BODIES OF WATER; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); RIVERS (88%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HISTORY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); TRENDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



53 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Manages Increase, While Gold Drops Slightly

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The dollar rose against several major currencies yesterday, buoyed by a surge in new-home sales in April and a pause in the Japanese yen's recent surge.
Gold prices declined slightly, following up Tuesday's steep selloff that sent bullion down as much as $9 an ounce. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery slipped an additional 50 cents, to $370.80 an ounce. 
 The British pound fell for a second day amid persistent speculation that the Government of Prime Minister John Major had become more willing to cut interest rates. In New York, the pound finished at $1.541, down from $1.555 late Tuesday.
The dollar also jumped 1.5 pfennigs to finish at 1.598 marks, up from 1.583 marks Tuesday, The dollar was unchanged at 107.15 yen, holding onto gains made Tuesday when talk of Federal Reserve buying helped pull the dollar from a record low of 106.55 yen.
 
Home Sales Are Strong
 The dollar's firming against the yen prompted investors to bid it higher against the mark as well, traders said. The dollar added to those gains after the Commerce Department reported that single-family home sales jumped 22.7 percent in April, the biggest increase in more than six years.
Even so, strong housing sales are not expected to change traders' skeptical outlook on the dollar because other economic data have been weak, said James McGroarty, senior vice president at Greenwich Capital Markets in Greenwich, Conn. "You don't turn the ship that quickly," he said. "The dollar will probably drift lower."
The housing report came on the heels of a smaller-than-expected rise in the index of leading indicators, which showed that the American economic recovery is sluggish at best. Without signs of robust growth, the Federal Reserve is not likely to raise interest rates aggressively. Higher interest rates make dollar-denominated deposits more attractive, increasing demand for the currency.
"The economic numbers aren't great for the dollar," said Earl Johnson, a foreign exchange adviser at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. "The risk for the dollar is still on the downside."
The dollar could slip against the mark today if, as many traders expect, the German central bank leaves interest rates unchanged after its policy meeting. The Bundesbank left key money market rates unchanged yesterday, indicating that interest rates were not likely to drop this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (81%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; HOUSING; SALES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



54 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
A Lift for Tax-Exempt Municipals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The improved outlook for President Clinton's deficit reduction plan appears to be giving a lift to the tax-exempt municipal bond market. Analysts said yesterday that the increase in income tax rates under the plan would make tax-exempt bonds more attractive.
"Frankly, were having a busy day," said said Terry Tracy, the national sales and marketing manager for municipal bonds at Lehman Brothers. "It certainly helps," he added, referring to the talk of compromise on both the President's proposed spending cuts and his energy tax, which could lead to approval in the Senate, where the economic plan had been expected to face difficult sledding. 
 Actively traded municipal bonds were up 1/8 to 1/4 point yesterday, and the Bond Buyer index of 40 municipal bonds fell to a yield of 5.86 percent, its lowest level since mid-May.
 
 
Comparing the Numbers
 Simple math shows why Mr. Clinton's tax increases make tax-exempt bonds more attractive. At the current top Federal income tax rate of 31 percent, a 5.5 percent tax-exempt bond has a taxable equivalent yield of 7.97 percent. With the 36 percent top rate that the President is proposing, that taxable equivalent yield jumps to 8.59 percent. And with the proposed surcharge on higher incomes, which lifts the effective top tax rate to 39.6 percent, that taxable equivalent yield rises to 8.96 percent.
What may soon dawn on more bond salesmen and investors -- and help encourage more buying -- is that under the Clinton budget proposals approved in the House last week by 219 to 213, the higher tax rates are effective retroactively to the beginning of the year, which means there is a higher taxable equivalent yield already to be made.
"I didn't know that," said an amazed head of a firm that advises states and cities on municipal issues and who asked not to be named.
And as of now, it does not appear that the retroactivity will be changed -- even if it appears it may have a chilling effect on consumer spending while the economy is still weak. One House Ways and Means staff member dismissed the possibility of a change yesterday, saying, "We need the money."
 
 
Ratio Cited
 One of the signs that traders and analysts look for in measuring whether the prices of tax-exempt bonds have begun to reflect the expectation of a tax increase is the ratio of the yield on municipal bonds to the yield on comparable taxable Treasury securities. With tax rates climbing, the ratio should be falling.
But as of yesterday, the ratios had not moved much in the last several weeks and were still well above their lows for the last year. For example, the ratio of a 10-year municipal bond yield to the yield on a 10-year Treasury note was 82 percent, well above its recent low of 75 percent.
The increase in demand for tax-exempt municipals is helping to offset the downward pressure on the market from the continuing flood of new issues as states, cities, towns and other entities take advantage of lower interest rates.
Despite the record $232.4 billion of new issues last year -- which included $120.5 billion in refinancings -- analysts said there were still plenty of higher interest rate bonds to be replaced with lower interest rate bonds.
And the data for this year bear out this fact. Through May, there was a total of $112.7 billion of new tax-exempt issues, with $75.95 billion of them refinancings of old issues.
Traders and analysts have said they expected several billion dollars more of new issues alone this week, including an $800 million negotiated sale by the New York Dormitory Authority to be priced today, with Goldman Sachs & Company the lead underwriter. Yesterday, there was about $2 billion in new issues.
In yesterday's biggest deal, the Puerto Rico Public Building Authority sold $704.5 million in bonds to refund older, higher interest rate bonds. For the new bonds, the taxable equivalent yield for New Yorkers is even more attractive because the bonds are exempt from Federal, New York State and New York City taxes.
The Puerto Rico issue, with the First Boston Corporation as the lead underwriter, was priced to yield 4 percent for bonds due in July 1996; 5.4 percent for bonds due in July 2003, and 5.85 percent for bonds due in July 2015. The taxable equivalent yields at current top tax rates, with triple tax exemption, are 7.69 percent, 10.38 percent and 11.25 percent, respectively.
 
 
Treasury Market
 After a volatile day of trading, Treasury prices finished little changed yesterday. The price of the 30-year bond due in February 2023 was up 3/32 as the yield slipped to 6.87 percent from 6.88 percent Tuesday.
The wildest swing in the market came in the morning when the Government reported an unexpected 22.7 percent surge in the sales of new homes in April. The surprise, coming after the report of a weak one-tenth of 1 percent rise in the index of leading economic indicators for April, sparked an immediate selloff. But prices rebounded as traders refocused on the overall signal of April economic data, which is that the economy, while growing, is still weak.
Following are the results from the Treasury auction yesterday of 13-day cash management bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.890
Discounted Rate . . . 3.04%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.09%
High Price . . . 99.981
Discounted Rate . . . 3.01%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.06%
Low Price . . . 99.890
Discounted Rate . . . 3.04%
Coupon Yield . . . 3.09%
Accepted at low price . . . 80%
Total applied for . . . $34,208,000
Accepted . . . $7,010,000
N.Y. applied for . . . $32,043,000
N.Y. accepted . . . $6,545,000
 
The 13-day cash management bill mature June 17, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MUNICIPAL BONDS (94%); BONDS (93%); TAX INCREASES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



55 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Delays Push to Increase Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has delayed its push for a higher minimum wage because of worries about undermining job growth and antagonizing conservatives and business executives while the President's budget hangs in the balance, Administration officials said today.
They said the Administration would probably wait until next year, and then propose an increase in the minimum wage, now $4.25 an hour, that would be far smaller than the $1-an-hour rise contemplated when President Clinton took office. 
 The move came on a day in which the White House seemed to be stepping back from, or at least delaying, a number of actions that have created distractions from Mr. Clinton's top priority, his economic plan.
 
Economic Climate Cited
 Several Clinton advisers acknowledged today that proposing an increase now in the minimum wage would simply antagonize business executives and conservatives in Congress, making it harder to win passage of the President's economic package. And at a time of weak economic growth, with the unemployment rate seemingly stuck around 7 percent, the Administration appears wary of throwing its weight behind a minimum wage increase, which would open it up to charges that it is sabotaging job growth.
"Unless we have six months of terrific employment growth, this thing is going to slide for a while," said one Administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
But Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said Mr. Clinton still planned to fulfill his campaign promise of increasing the minimum wage.
"There is no question that the President is committed to raising the minimum wage," Mr. Reich said in an interview. "But the legislative calendar is so crowded at the moment that it is not time to put forward an increase in the minimum wage."
Other officials gave additional reasons for the delay. For one, they said, the Administration does not want to distract its focus and energies from getting its deficit-reduction plan and health-care changes enacted. The White House also seems to be heeding the power of Washington's business lobbyists.
Speaking about the minimum wage, a senior Administration official who insisted on anonymity said: "It is on the back burner. There's an awful lot on the economic plate that has come to Congress, or that's about to come to Congress, that's upsetting business."
Business, which abhors the idea of an increase, is already seething about the proposed energy tax, a higher corporate income tax and new burdens that companies are expected to face to finance the Administration's health-care package. Indeed, business hardly seems appeased by the delay and the decision to push for a smaller increase in the minimum wage.
"We believe a minimum wage increase will have a devastating effect just when jobs are starting to come back," said Nelson Litterst, a lobbyist with the National Federation of Independent Business, an association of 600,000 small businesses. "Coupled with the tax package and employer mandates on health care, this would be a final straw for small business."
 
More Modest Increase Seen
 In January, at the start of the new Administration, officials talked about raising the minimum wage by about $1 an hour, to roughly $5.25. They said that wage, after being adjusted for inflation, would be about $1.25 lower than it was in 1979. But Labor Department officials now talk of a far more modest increase, one that would index the wage to inflation and raise it to somewhere between $4.50 and $4.75 an hour.
Labor Department officials initially said that to help lift workers out of poverty they would tie a rise in the minimum wage to an increase in the earned income tax credit. The President proposed a higher earned income tax credit in February as part of his economic package, but there was no proposal on the minimum wage.
In delaying any push on the minimum wage, the Administration could run the risk of having members of Congress introduce minimum wage legislation over the next month or two and then demand that Mr. Clinton make good on his commitment to an increase.
That happened with proposals to ban striker replacements. The Administration wanted to put the issue on the back burner, but the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and its Congressional allies got legislation moving and pressed the Administration to get behind it far sooner than the White House would have liked.
But while officials in the labor federation want the minimum wage raised to at least $5.40 an hour, they say it is not as high a priority for them as the striker replacement bill or the health-care package. One business lobbyist told of going to a meeting with Administration officials who said the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was not going to make a big push on the minimum wage this year.
 
Impatient for an Increase
 Still, unions with many low-wage workers are eager for the Administration to act soon. Ray Abernathy, a spokesman for the Service Employees International Union, said: "The low-wage workers of America have been waiting 12 years for the minimum wage to be put back to where it should be, and another six months' wait is not going to kill us. But it's not something we're going to let slide off the plate."
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Labor Committee, seems impatient for an increase and wants to work with the Administration to make sure it remains a priority.
"For 70 percent of American workers, the Reagan-Bush years saw a steady erosion in their real wages, and the trend has been particularly destructive for low-wage workers," he said. "No one who works full time in America should have to live in poverty."
In 1989, President George Bush vetoed legislation that would have raised the minimum wage to $4.55 from $3.35. But in a compromise, he later accepted a bill that raised the wage in two steps to $4.25, as of April 1991.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Comparing Wages" compares minimum wage and the average wage from '75-April, '93. (Source: Datastream, Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (66%); INCOME TAX (60%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



56 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Young Organizers Lead Labor's Push

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Ingrid Nava is a little rabble-rouser in tennis shoes. She is 5-foot-2, 25 years old and a former student leader at Stanford University. She lugs a woven shoulder bag stuffed with notebooks, handbills and her pager. At 8 A.M. six days a week, she sets off from her Long Beach apartment, driving her second-hand Honda Civic to Bellflower, a few miles to the north.
Ms. Nava is a labor union organizer, working at the Kaiser Permanente hospital in Bellflower. A few days ago, she distributed stickers the size of playing cards for hospital employees to wear on their smocks. They depicted a tombstone inscribed, "Short staffing is hazardous to your health." 
 After a supervisor charged two workers with disobeying orders for refusing to remove their stickers, Ms. Nava returned with stickers five times the size of the originals.
 
Trying to End Decline
 Now that union membership has shriveled to just 16 percent of the American labor force, many unions are renewing their efforts to attract organizers like Ms. Nava, people who recruit members and rally them for campaigns like the one in Bellflower for a better contract for Kaiser workers. For more than a decade, unions have been railing against courts and the labor laws that they see stacked against them, and they are now hopeful that the Clinton Administration will right the balance.
But some unions, like Ms. Nava's Service Employees International Union, also admit that they contributed to the problem by letting their organizing campaigns languish in the 1980's.
To help recruit and train organizers, the service employees union and 13 others established the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Organizing Institute in Washington, which has now dispatched some 200 people into the field to take up the slogging, low-paid, often futile toil of trying to revive the American labor movement. Ms. Nava is one of the first graduates of the institute.
Of 600 applicants since the institute was formed three years ago, 200 have survived the initial screening and four months of training and apprenticeship leading to full-time assignment to a union. Most of the new organizers, who earn about $20,000 a year, work on campaigns to bring union representation to non-union workplaces.
 
Praise for Organizers
 With no signs yet of a resurgence in union membership, it is too soon to gauge the new organizers' impact. But Richard Bensinger, the director of the institute, said the trainees he has seen had the blue-collar idealism and the sense of social injustice that inspired the unions' growth from the 1930's to the mid-1950's.
"It has nothing to do with the fact that some went to a good college," he said. "It's in spite of that. People are good because they have natural intelligence, not book intelligence. Most of these college kids, even the ones from Brown, Yale and Stanford come from working-class families."
Ms. Nava is the daughter of a postal worker mother and a father she has never met. She was born in Washington and reared in San Antonio. At Stanford she majored in political science and was co-president of the student body for two years.
She spends 12-hour days in Bellflower, helping unionized workers at the Kaiser hospital press for higher wages and a stop to the big health-maintenance organization's reductions in hours and staff.
The workers' contract expired April 1, and rather than strike, Ms. Nava and the 12,000-member Local 399 of the service employees union are trying to pressure management from the inside.
Workers at the hospital, one of 10 in Kaiser's Southern California division, seem to welcome Ms. Nava's attentions. They say she is a departure from the Local's infrequent attention of the past. "She's our organizer," said Eva Hernandez, a maintenance woman. "She gets us doing things to push the hospital."
 
Contract Offer
 The central issue at the Kaiser hospitals is management's offer of a three-year contract with a 3 percent raise in the first year and $600 bonuses in each of the next two years. Kaiser would also eliminate a paid holiday for either Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve.
Newly hired workers would lose a bonus that other workers receive for not using their sick leave, but they would be allowed for the first time to carry over unused sick leave from one year to the next. The union wants to retain the bonus and the holiday and seeks 5 percent raises each year.
Each side has strong reasons for holding its ground. Kaiser, like other health-care institutions, is trying to curb the rising cost of care, especially now. Health-maintenance organizations, or H.M.O.'s, will be vying for contracts to provide care to uninsured Americans under the Clinton Administration's overhaul of the health-care system, and Kaiser, a not-for-profit, tax-exempt organization and the nation's biggest H.M.O., wants to be able to charge competitive fees.
For their part, the workers and their union have incentives to insist on a rich contract. The contract in 1987 left some workers with no wage increases at all, just lump-sum payments that left their wage base unchanged. After the 1990 contract, which followed an eight-day strike, some workers lost their modest wage increases to an increase in union dues, which are currently $22.50 a week. More contracts like the last two, and the workers might look for another union.
 
Working From Inside
 Local 399 holds out the threat of a strike, but it is reluctant to resort to one because of the region's depressed economy. "It would take 30 days, and the membership is not able to stay out long," Ms. Nava said. "They can't afford it. A lot of them have laid-off spouses. So we're using an inside strategy."
Ms. Nava is important to the strategy. She goes from office to office in the hospital, greeting workers, passing out handbills urging them to attend spirit-raising meetings, probing for complaints of management abuse and jotting them down in a notebook, pressing workers to sign petitions to present grievances to management.
In one department four workers complain that their supervisor is denying them the weeks they have requested for their vacations. For that and other reasons, they tell Ms. Nava, morale has collapsed.
In cases like these, Ms. Nava encourages workers to sign petitions, the first step in a collective effort to force the employer to correct abuses. "My goal is to get everyone in a department to sign," she said, adding that she would proceed with a complaint if she got 65 percent.
"The biggest issue is workload," Ms. Nava said. To control costs, Kaiser has eliminated 173 jobs through attrition and layoffs at the Bellflower hospital, and reduced some some workers' hours. Workers now complain that excessive demands are made upon them as a result of the staff reductions, and employees in at least two major departments have filed petitions complaining of short staffing.
 
Little Political Dogma
 Unlike their forebears, the new union organizers seem not to have been captured by any particular ideological dogma.
"I believe in some measure of economic equity and justice," Ms. Nava said. "But I don't think there's any one system to march to, because the world is constantly changing. Capitalism is not the same as it was when Marx was alive."
If she has a hero, she said, it is probably the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
No one can tell whether Ms. Nava, for all her hustle, will help produce a better contract for the Kaiser hospitals. But David Borden, who transports patients throughout the Bellflower hospital, said she has already had an impact: she brought new energy to the workers and inspired him to become a union steward.
"Most people have a sense they can't make any changes in their working conditions," Mr. Borden said. "So it's exciting when you do realize you have some power."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With union membership down to 16 percent of the American labor force, unions are renewing efforts to attract organizers like Ingrid Nava, one of the first graduates of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Organizing Institute, to recruit members. She handed out leaflets at a hospital in Bellflower, Calif. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); AFL-CIO (59%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); AFL-CIO (59%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; UNIONIZATION LABOR UNIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (75%); HOSPITALS (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



57 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Hevesi Urges Rivals to Limit Underwriters' Contributions

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Alan G. Hevesi, the Assemblyman from Queens who is running for City Comptroller, yesterday challenged his two rivals to voluntarily limit campaign contributions from firms that underwrite city bonds.
Seeking to take advantage of the widespread perception that firms use campaign contributions to influence the selection of bond underwriters, Mr. Hevesi, a senior member of the Assembly, also said he would introduce legislation that would force the city to put out to competitive bidding the bulk of its underwriting business. 
 Under the current practice, the mayor and the city comptroller jointly choose a syndicate of bond underwriters on subjective grounds and then negotiate each sale with them. Consequently they benefit indirectly by receiving thousands of dollars from bond brokers and Wall Street firms that believe, rightly or wrongly, that it is necessary to give to get.
"The current system is rotten and presents an appearance of a conflict of interest," Mr. Hevesi said.
 
Limit for Candidates
 Mr. Hevesi said the three comptroller candidates should agree to limit to $10,000 the total amount they collect from executives of each of the 30 firms in the underwriting syndicate or their families. The city Campaign Finance Law, which is not mandatory, limits contributions to $6,500 per individual but does not prohibit many individuals from the same firm from giving up to the limit.
The incumbent Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, who is under investigation because she received a large campaign loan from a banking company that later was recommended by her office to become an underwriter, immediately rejected Mr. Hevesi's proposal. She said the current limits were sufficient.
"In an ideal world we would have 100 percent public financing for elections and I heartily endorse that," Ms. Holtzman said through her campaign spokesman, George Arzt. "But there are campaign finance limitations already on the books and we strenuously abide by them."
Herman Badillo, a Democratic candidate for comptroller who is also running on the Republican line, said he thought the voluntary limits were a good idea, but he stopped short of saying he would abide by them. He said his decision would depend on how much money the other candidates have raised.
"It's really unfair to collect a million dollars and then ask the other guy to start limiting himself," Mr. Badillo said. "I don't want to put myself at a disadvantage."
Mr. Hevesi said he had not decided yet whether he would stick to a $10,000 cap from each firm if the other candidates did not. "It's very likely I will abide by the cap regardless of what the others do," he said.
City officials said Mr. Hevesi's legislation would cripple the city's ability to save money by refinancing bonds and using innovative financing techniques like zero-coupon and variable-rate bonds. If forced to use a competitive bidding system, the city could not control when it goes to market and would have to sell only fixed-rate notes that, on average, cost the city more in interest.
"What he's proposing is a bad idea," said Barry F. Sullivan, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development. "If it came to pass, it would cost the city a ton of money."
He said about a third of the $5 billion in bonds the city sells each year could be handled through competitive bids but the city would likely end up paying higher interest rates. Such deals are riskier for underwriters because the bids are opened and the bonds sold 10 days after the city advertises the sale, no matter what the market conditions are.
Competitive bidding, he added, is not a guarantee against corruption. After all, bids can be rigged to favor a single firm, and firms can form cartels to control prices, he pointed out.
 
To Dispel Cynicism
 But Mr. Hevesi said the extra cost of a competitive system would be worth it to dispel public cynicism about the selection process.
"The trade-off is we get a system where there is no appearance of a conflict of interest," he said.
Mr. Hevesi's vow to pass legislation is not an idle threat. As the second ranking member of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee, he has legislative clout, and other influential lawmakers, including the committee chairman, Sheldon Silver, have indicated support for the idea.
In addition, the city must seek permission each year from the State Legislature to forgo competitive bidding and negotiate its bond sales, so the Legislature has leverage over the administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; COMPTROLLERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; HEVESI, ALAN G (ASSEMBLYMAN); BADILLO, HERMAN; HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



58 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Dinkins's Fiscal Gantlet;
Mayor Faces Stumbling Blocks From Allies and the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 2

 BODY:
In the delicate dance that every New York City mayor performs when seeking state aid, Mayor David N. Dinkins has rarely been mistaken for Fred Astaire.
He has been criticized for not comprehending the Kremlinesque intrigue of Statehouse politics, for not lobbying state legislators enough, for crying wolf.
But this is a year Mr. Dinkins seems destined to stumble despite his best efforts, as he seeks $280 million in state aid to help close a $500 million budget gap. His allies seem weaker, his opponents more determined and the independents more complacent than usual.
 
Trouble Across the Divide
 For Democrats, the problem is largely the state's tight budget. Behind public talk about supporting Mr. Dinkins, there is much private hand wringing about a sluggish economy that has left them few resources for a bailout and many excuses for whittling down the city's plan. 
 Even Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Mr. Dinkins's strongest ally, has said he wanted an aid package to be "zero-sum," meaning it should have no net impact on the state budget. Republicans have questioned whether that is possible.
Across the political divide, the Republican-controlled Senate has traditionally impeded aid to New York City, arguing that it drains resources from upstate and the suburbs.
In the past, such partisan opposition has occasionally been softened by the six Senate Republicans from the city, who have helped Democatic mayors navigate legislation through the Senate when it benefited their districts.
But this year, that loose alliance could be weakened by the strong campaign of Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor. Amid conflicting allegiances, the six Republicans might let a bailout package die without a fight in hopes of helping Mr. Giuliani, aides to Mr. Dinkins said.
Democrats point to another reason Republicans from the city might duck the uphill battle: they are not up for re-election this year and lack the urgency generated by the heat of a campaign.
The Republicans deny that. "We aren't going to sabotage the city's well-being to play politics," said Senator Guy J. Velella, a Bronx Republican. "Whoever is going to be mayor in January is going to have a heck of job handling the city's finances, and we'll have to account for that."
But Democrats are girding for the ritual hostage-taking that usually marks the end of the legislative session. In this case, aid for New York City in exchange for aid to local governments on Long Island.
"The Republicans will be driving a hard bargain this year," said Senator David A. Paterson, a Manhattan Democrat. "Everyone says partisan loyalty is not a factor, but it's always a factor. And even more this year."
To be sure, portions of the city's package are very likely to be approved. Mr. Cuomo has identified about $65 million in actions he can take without legislative approval, including reimbursing the city an additional $11 million for foster-care placements and assuming the administrative costs for collecting certain taxes. But that would still leave the city, by its own account, with a shortfall of more than $200 million.
 
Selling Airports Suggested
 Mr. Cuomo has refused to drop several lawsuits with the city, a move the Dinkins administration said would have saved them $90 million. In turn, he has proposed that the city sell La Guardia and Kennedy International Airports to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for $300 million.
But the city has expressed only lukewarm interest in the idea, saying the airport land is worth closer to $2 billion. With no deal in sight, some state and city officials have questioned whether Mr. Cuomo's proposal was meant to give the appearance of aiding the city while shifting the responsibility to another authority.
Both city and Port Authority officials have questioned the wisdom of selling the airports, because the city would be relinquishing a steady source of revenue for a one-time infusion of cash. "It's not clear to me that the city should do this kind of one shot," said a Port Authority official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Several of the city's other big-ticket requests also seem remote at best, including having the state assume $50 million in Medicaid costs. Medicaid proposals have been mired in the Legislature for more than a year, and are not expected to pass this year.
At least one bailout bill that the Dinkins administration had believed was safe remains at risk. The proposal to sell the value of delinquent property taxes to an outside collection agency would be worth $215 million to the city. Though it has not drawn clear opposition, there are enough questions about it to delay passage until next year.
Amid the parlor politeness surrounding the bailout negotiations, there have been few overt suggestions that Mr. Dinkins's plan is in trouble. But between the lines of the news releases are questions about the depth of the city's fiscal crisis and Mr. Dinkins's ability to resolve it.
 
Welfare Costs an Issue
 Republicans have criticized Mr. Dinkins for not bringing spending more in line with revenues, saying he reneged on a promise made in 1991 to appoint a commission to study reorganizing city government.
"I don't think the city is doing everything it can to control its welfare costs," said Senator Frank Padavan, a Queens Republican.
There are skeptics among the Democrats as well. Some think Mr. Dinkins knows he must cut services to control his ballooning budget, and has positioned himself to hold the state responsible when that time comes. Some members of Mr. Cuomo's staff also believe the city has more money than it claims and can balance its budget with less drastic cuts than Mr. Dinkins has threatened.
"They are going to balance their budget, regardless of what the state does," said one of Mr. Cuomo's aides, speaking on condition of anonymity. In the wake of such uncertainty, some legislators said they sensed that Mr. Dinkins expected to lose on most of his package, and has begun looking for ways to turn political rejection into a public relations gain.
During a visit to Albany last week, Mr. Dinkins brought representatives from 10 community organizations who spoke to state legislators about the devastating effect service cuts would have on poor and minority neighborhoods.
But several legislators wondered afterward whether Mr. Dinkins's goal was to impress the neighborhood groups with his lobbying efforts. "They were the most important people on this trip," said one Republican senator.
Even if that was not his intent, Mr. Dinkins may have achieved that goal. "From my position, I thought the Mayor was extremely skillful in keeping the Senate Republicans on the agenda, which was the agenda we brought," said Geoffrey Canada, president of the Rheedlen Centers for Children and Families in Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); APPROVALS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID PATERSON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



59 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Gives Midtown Tower To Columbia University

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
A century after moving its campus from mid-Manhattan, Columbia University returned yesterday to accept the 50-story General Electric Building at 570 Lexington Avenue as a gift from the General Electric Company.
The slender landmark Art Deco skyscraper at 51st Street -- ornamented by lightning bolts and electric rays -- is valued at $40 million. 
 "It may not be the largest gift in the history of Columbia, but we believe it's the tallest one," said Dennis D. Dammerman, senior vice president of finance at General Electric.
In fact, said Michael I. Sovern, the president of Columbia, it is the second largest single gift, exceeded only by John W. Kluge's donation of $60 million in April.
 
A Gift Also for the Giver
 What General Electric gets out of the deal is a $40 million tax deduction and the successful disposal of a 62-year-old commercial building that is two-thirds vacant.
What Columbia gets is relief from the squeeze on space at its Morningside Heights campus, Mr. Sovern said, and a place to put programs that "can work as effectively, even more effectively, in midtown" -- like those in business, journalism, international affairs and the arts.
The tower is two blocks from Madison Avenue and 49th Street, the site occupied by Columbia in the 19th century. "Our predecessors moved uptown in order to expand," Mr. Sovern said. "We are returning -- in part -- for the same reason."
Most New Yorkers probably think of 30 Rockefeller Center as the G.E. Building, since the company's name and logo are emblazoned on that tower, where NBC has its studios. And many New Yorkers associate Columbia with Rockefeller Center, since the university owned 11.7 acres under the center until 1985, when it sold the land to the Rockefeller Group for $400 million.
But 570 Lexington Avenue served as General Electric's headquarters until 1974, when the company moved to Fairfield, Conn. One-third of the 428,000-square-foot building is still occupied by G.E. divisions.
General Electric will remain as a tenant of Columbia, but Mr. Sovern would not disclose the rent -- "since we might want to charge someone else more."
 
Possibilities Abound
 Columbia will occupy much of the rest of the building. There might be classes for executives given by the School of Business, Mr. Sovern said, a center for computer-assisted reporting sponsored by the School of Journalism or collaborative ventures involving the United Nations and the School of International and Public Affairs.
Mr. Sovern said 570 Lexington Avenue could be used for a "whole range of cultural activities," including art exhibitions, and would almost certainly be developed as a conference center, taking advantage of its 130-seat auditorium.
Those parts of the building used by the university for educational purposes will be exempt from city real-estate taxes. But Mr. Sovern said that the city's loss of tax revenue ought to be offset in part by the economic activity generated by the new academic center. The tax bill last year was about $3 million, Mr. Dammerman said.
Mr. Dammerman first approached Mr. Sovern about a possible deal two months ago, said Fred Knubel, Columbia's director of public information. Because the arrangement is still so fresh, Mr. Sovern said, it is too early to say how much money will go into remodeling interiors or running the building.
The transfer of the property from General Electric to Columbia University is set for the end of the month. Mr. Sovern said that the 50 G.E. workers who maintain and operate the building will remain and become Columbia employees.
 
Deeded to G.E. in 1931
 Originally intended as the home of the Radio Corporation of America, which was owned by a consortium including General Electric, 570 Lexington Avenue was deeded to G.E. when RCA moved to Rockefeller Center in 1931. Two years later, a Federal court forced G.E. to liquidate its RCA holdings. The companies were reunited in 1985, when General Electric acquired RCA.
Electricity provides an appropriately flashy motif for the lavish ornamentation. Throughout the facade, stylized clenched fists grasp sharply angular bolts. Halos of electric rays can be seen in the pinnacle of the tower and in the recesses of the barrel-vaulted ceiling in the lobby.
 
Landmark Status
 The Landmarks Preservation Commission gave the building landmark status in 1985 and has described it as "one of the most expressive skyscrapers of its era." Mr. Sovern noted with pride that the architect, John Walter Cross, of Cross & Cross, had studied at Columbia.
G.E. spent $20 million to repair and restore the facade in the mid-1980's, replacing thousands of bricks and hundreds of windows, as well as relighting the building's lacy crown.
"Columbia will use and cherish this work of art with purpose and respect," Mr. Sovern said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Columbia University received its tallest, and second richest, gift when General Electric donated its 50-story Art Deco building at Lexington Avenue and 51st Street. The building is valued at $40 million. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; GIFTS JOURNALISM (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W ANN LIVERMORE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



60 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: A Mini-Van Revival at Renault

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, May 28

 BODY:
A decade ago, the large French industrial companyMatra came up with a plan for a mini-van and offered it to the auto maker Peugeot. For Peugeot, however, the concept was too bizarre in a European market still convinced that people rode in cars not in vans. But Renault promptly stepped in and started production of the first European mini-van, the Espace.
For Renault, it was not a time for big risks. It was piling up enormous losses -- 12.1 billion francs in 1984 alone -- and many analysts believed the state-owned auto maker would be the first casualty of a chronically overcrowded European car market.
 
A Remarkable Success
 "The place looked more like an employment agency than a business enterprise," said Karl Ludwigsen, a former executive at Ford who is now an auto industry analyst. 
 But the Espace was a remarkable success, steadily increasing sales and carving out a new niche. Today, it accounts for about 50 percent of the European mini-van segment and it is clear that Renault, like Chrysler in America, has based its revival partly on understanding the mini-van's appeal ahead of everybody else. Indeed, Ford of Europe and Volkswagen, which are together building a new mini-van factory in Portugal, are still catching up.
 
Nimble and Innovative
 The Espace says much about the way Renault has defied conventional wisdom lately. The only state-owned company among Europe's big six auto makers, Renault was supposed to be the most cumbersome, bureaucratic and vulnerable. Yet it has proved more nimble and innovative than most, reporting net profits of 5.68 billion francs ($1 billion) in 1992, a year in which Ford lost $1.28 billion on its European operations.
Lumbered with a reputation of building medium-quality small cars that could only succeed in southern Europe's highly protected markets, Renault has successfully retooled its image with quality autos of all sizes. The turnaround is best illustrated in the competitive and sizable German market, where Renault's market share has nearly doubled to almost 6 percent from just over 3 percent in 1985. Over all in Europe, the company has increased its market share to 10.6 percent last year from 9.9 percent in 1990.
Because Renault faced its crisis before the rest of the industry confronted the worst auto sales slump in decades, the company has moved faster to cut costs, reduce staff and raise productivity. Over the last six years, its staff has been reduced by 50,127 people, to 146,604, or about 25 percent. It now takes an average of 27 hours to assemble a car at Renault, not as efficient as Japanese plants that can do it in 20 hours, but far better than the nearly 40 hours in German auto plants.
"I think we have demonstrated that it is an American prejudice to believe that state-owned companies cannot be as well run as private ones," the chairman of Renault, Louis Schweitzer, said in an interview. "Indeed, we act just like a private corporation."
Not quite. As recently as 1990, Renault received the equivalent of about 10 billion francs ($1.83 billion) from the French Government, in the form of a loan write-off and an injection of new capital. Such aid, not available to private auto makers, has helped improve the company balance sheet, cutting net debt to 12.55 billion francs, or 7 percent of sales, from 27.1 billion francs, or 16.6 percent of sales, in 1990.
Now, however, Renault finally wants to put all state coddling behind it and become a private corporation. This month, the conservative French Government said the auto maker would be among 21 state companies to be put up for sale to the private sector. The company's management is enthusiastic.
 
'Privatization Seems Logical'
 "In the profession we are in, there is no reason for us to remain a state company," said Mr. Schweitzer, 50, a technocrat who once worked as the chief of staff to a Socialist Prime Minister. "A privatization seems logical to me, on condition that Renault remain a French-owned company. This corporation is a national symbol, and our labor unions and the public in general would not understand if we ceased to be French."
Analysts liked the idea of Renault going private, arguing that it would strengthen its capital base and make it more competitive as the long-predicted shake-out in the European auto industry finally seems imminent. "Renault will issue more equity, eliminating its remaining debt problems, and should emerge a still stronger company," said John Lawson, an analyst at the DRI auto research firm.
But big obstacles remain. Chief among them is the state of the European car market, now in the midst of its worst recession for 20 years. Renault expects car sales to fall 12 percent from last year's near-record 13.4 million. But predictions grow worse by the month; Ford of Europe recently suggested that sales might drop more than 20 percent.
 
Any Profit Would Be Small
 "If sales drop by more than 20 percent, no European car makers will make money," Mr. Schweitzer said. Renault's profits have plunged to 240 million francs ($44 million) in the first quarter of this year, a 90 percent drop over the comparable period a year ago. The chairman acknowledged that if Renault made any profit this year, it would be small.
More worrying is that there is no sign of a recovery -- Mr. Lawson of DRI said he expected 1994 to be as bad as the current year -- and the reasons for the extent of the market's collapse are unclear.
The best theory is that nervousness and caution are inhibiting consumers as unemployment and recession spread in Europe.
In France, where Renault has a 29.5 percent market share, it remains protected from Japan. Japan's French market share, as a result of restrictions, is 4 percent, compared with 12.4 percent throughout Europe. With an agreement now to lift all barriers to Japanese imports into the European Community by the year 2000, Renault appears vulnerable to a Japanese onslaught.
These factors are certain to weigh on any privatization, and may mean that a sale is put off at least until the European market shows convincing signs of revival.
 
Models Show Originality
 But Renault's attractions -- most analysts said they believed it was the strongest auto maker in Europe alongside General Motors -- remained conspicuous. Its models, including the recently introduced economy car, the goggle-eyed Twingo, have continued to show a striking originality, reflecting the work of Patrick Le Quement, a designer hired in 1987 from Volkswagen and widely regarded as among the most creative in Europe.
Among Renault's strengths is what amounts to the most successful transnational alliance in Europe's auto industry. At the beginning of 1991, Volvo took a 20 percent stake in Renault, while Renault took a 25 percent stake in the Volvo Car Corporation of Sweden. At the same time, the two companies took stakes in each other's truck operations. The results have been positive.
With many components now jointly acquired and the two companies providing each other with engines and transmissions, savings have been enormous. For example, Mr. Schweitzer said, when the alliance began, both companies had plans for a two-liter engine. They decided Volvo would build the gasoline version and Renault the diesel. The result: a saving of nearly $200 million for Renault.
"We have not taken a decision yet, but it would be logical to seek a merger with Volvo," Mr. Schweitzer said. "What we must be careful about is not losing any of the capacities of the two companies in putting them together."
 
Raising Political Questions
 A problem, up to now, had been the fact that Volvo is private and Renault state-owned, but that would be resolved if Renault was privatized. Moreover, cooperation has not been so successful in the truck divisions, where the two companies are direct competitors and Renault has continued to lose money. Delicate political questions would also arise because both companies are symbols of their respective nations.
What is clear, however, is that Renault is a potentially attractive partner to Volvo, a situation in sharp contrast to a decade ago. Indeed, having lost $610 million last year, the worst result in its history, Volvo has said it was keen to examine closer cooperation with Renault.
Over all, Renault's survival no longer seems in any doubt, which is more than can be said for some other auto makers in a European market still with a basic problem: although it is about the size of the American market -- with 13.4 million cars sold last year against 13 million in the United States -- there are six major auto makers based here rather than three. And in Europe, the Japanese have only just begun their assault.
"This is crunch time for European car makers, with a gory five years ahead, and we believe there will be five big auto makers here rather than six by the end of the decade," Mr. Ludwigsen, the analyst, said. "Renault's survival seems assured, while that of Ford of Europe and Fiat seems much more questionable. Indeed our prediction is that Fiat will become the majority holder of Ford of Europe's operations by the end of the century."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Espace mini-van has proved a remarkable success for Renault, accounting for about 50 percent of the European mini-van segment. (pg. D1); "I think we have demonstrated that it is an American prejudice to believe that state-owned companies cannot be as well run as private ones," said Louis Schweitzer, the chairman of Renault. (Renault) (pg. D3)
 
Graph: "Renault on the Rebound" tracks annual market share in Europe, sales, and net earnings since 1982. (Source: Company reports) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); RNO (PAR) (92%); RNO (BIT) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: RENAULT SA PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENAULT SA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRIVATIZATION; VANS; AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (54%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



61 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Lumber Prices Rise Sharply After Home-Sales Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Lumber futures prices leaped yesterday after the Government reported a sharp rise in home sales in April to the highest level in more than six years.
Spruce two-by-fours for July delivery shot up the permitted daily limit of $10, to $279.80 per 1,000 board feet, on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
 The Government's report that sales of new single-family homes in April rose 22.7 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 751,000, was "absolutely stunning," William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said.
Many economists had expected no more than a 2 percent increase. "This may just be the key that will spur some renewed demand in the lumber market," Mr. O'Neill said.
Analysts said lumber futures were ready to rally after plunging 45 percent from the March 15 record high of $493.50. Lumber futures typically rise in the spring as demand for building materials picks up. This year, the seasonal effect was muted by cold, wet weather that discouraged outdoor work and by large supplies of lumber laid in by dealers during the winter in anticipation of a and construction boom that never came.
Bud Merrill of Shearson Lehman Brothers said dealers remained reluctant to buy more lumber until they saw further evidence of a stronger housing market. He predicted they would, citing the highest inventory of unsold homes and the lowest mortgage rates in 20 years. "Things could really get a little bit on the hot side in the second half of the year," he said.
 
Platinum Drops Sharply
 On other commodity markets, platinum futures tumbled amid talk that Russia, the second-largest platinum producer after South Africa, sold large amounts of the metal in the last two weeks to gain hard currency. July platinum deliveries skidded $8.40, to $383.70 a troy ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Profit taking hit energy futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Light sweet crude oil for July delivery fell 21 cents, to $20.03 a barrel; July heating oil fell 0.34 cent, to 54.80 cents a gallon; July unleaded gasoline fell 0.64 cent, to 58.33 cents a gallon; July natural gas sagged 7.1 cents, to $2.108 for 1,000 cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; FUTURES TRADING; HOUSING; SALES FUTURES (96%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (79%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (79%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); CURRENCIES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



62 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Market Funds Rise In Yield in the Latest Period

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered by tax-exempt and taxable money market funds rose in the latest week, according to the most recent survey by IBC's Money Fund Report.
Tax-exempt money fund yields were up for the period ended Tuesday, reflecting higher rates of money market instruments like Treasury securities, negotiable certificates of deposit and commercial paper over the last few weeks. But with an expected heavy supply of new tax-exempt municipal issues this week, yields could increase again next week, analysts said. 
 Yields on tax-exempt money market funds gained an average of 5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, in the week, as assets of tax-exempt funds fell $801 million, bringing total assets to $99.4 billion.
But money managers once again held fast and resisted shortening the average number of days left to maturity of securities held in their portfolios, keeping the number of days to 48 over the last four weeks.
IBC/Donoghue's seven-day compounded average yield for a tax-exempt money market fund rose 5 basis points, to 2.23 percent, with the average seven-day simple yield up to 2.20 percent. Over the last 30 days, the compounded yield was averaging 2.08 percent and the simple yield about 2.06 percent.
For investors in a 28 percent tax bracket, the taxable bond equivalent yield, less state and local taxes, for the average seven-day yield is 3.09 percent, and about 3.19 percent for investors in a 31 percent bracket.
The Money Fund Report's survey noted that among the tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, the Dreyfus Basic Municipal Money Market fund remained the best performer for the last five of six weeks. The fund was yielding 2.88 percent, up from its leading 2.86 percent in the previous week.
 
Taxable Funds
 Assets of taxable money market funds fell by $12 billion in the week ended yesterday, to a total of $474.6 billion.
Institutions accounted for a major portion of the cash withdrawn from the funds in the week. Institutional assets declined by $10.8 billion, to $160.6 billion, as a rising stock market and higher yields in the fixed-income market attracted institutional cash.
The average days left to maturity of securities in taxable money market portfolios remained at 64 for the third consecutive week.
IBC/Donoghue's average seven-day compounded yield on a taxable fund moved higher by 3 basis points, to 2.66 percent, with the seven-day simple yield up by the same amount, to 2.62 percent. Over 30 days, the compounded average yield is 2.64 percent and simple is 2.60 percent.
Walter S. Frank, the chief economist for the Money Fund Report, said he believed that yields would remain flat and might even edge higher as inflationary fears and uncertainty surrounding the deficit bill, which have dogged the markets over the last several weeks, take hold.
"Besides, the Federal Reserve continues to show reluctance to make any move," Mr. Frank said. "What could change the game plan, is a series of really miserable inflation numbers."
Dreyfus Basic Money Market Fund, which has dominated the general purpose fund category for the last month, continued its leading performance by reporting the best yield last week, 3.43 percent.
For the purpose of comparison, banks, which compete directly with money market funds for investor cash, are offering an average yield of 2.51 percent to depositors, down from 2.52 the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on June 2, 1993 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 	New York	2.33	2.76	Los Angeles	2.45	2.79	Chicago	2.53	2.92	San Francisco	2.47	2.74	Philadelphia	2.46	2.72	Detroit	2.78	2.83	Boston	2.39	2.75	Houston	2.56	3.00	Dallas	2.56	3.01	Washington	2.62	3.08	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.51	2.86	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" tracks Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts since February. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, Fla., and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, Holiston, Mass.); "Maturities" tracks average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios. Graph runs from June 1992 to the persent. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's)
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

ORGANIZATION: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (97%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); TAX LAW (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



63 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
Dr. JOSEPH DUFFEY, former president of American University in Washington, who was also chancellor and president of the University of Massachusetts, is being sworn in this morning as the 13th director of the United States Information Agency. Then he will plunge immediately into the business at hand: explaining United States foreign policy by presiding over a panel discussion for U.S.I.A. employees, "A New Time: How Will America Present Itself to the World?"
The answer to that, Dr. Duffey said, will have to evolve with the times and the circumstances. 
 The agency, which will be 40 years old in August, was established at the height of the Cold War, "when propaganda characterized its intent," he said yesterday. "Now we are far less certain what our message must be, because we are having a great national dialogue ourselves and we are demonstrating that democracy is not a finished product."
Dr. Duffey, who was also chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities in the Carter and Reagan administrations, said the agency was now being called upon to project the American image on a far different global screen. "Leadership will be in the form of coalitions and partnerships, not single voices," he said. "We are no longer separated into two worlds, nor is there one flash point related to one great East-West struggle, but there are many there are many flash points and many issues."
Asked if he wasn't facing a formidable challenge, Dr. Duffey, 60, quoted the playwright Neil Simon. "You know what he says, 'If it weren't for trouble, the day would be over at 11 o'clock.' "
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (55%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (93%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (93%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE; DUFFEY, JOSEPH (DR) RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



64 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 3785 words

HEADLINE: Tougher Odds On Broadway: A special report.;
Make Money on Broadway? Break a Leg

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
On May 1 "The Will Rogers Follies" celebrated its second anniversary on Broadway. Only 4 of the 19 productions now running have been on Broadway longer. The show, winner of the 1991 Tony Award for best musical, still regularly fills three-fourths of the 1,420 available seats in the Palace Theater and on one recent week brought in more than $425,000.
A smash hit, yes? The investors are rolling in profits, right?
Well, no. "Will Rogers" is likely to close, this year or early next, without recouping the $7.5 million it cost to put on. In fact, it hasn't even come close: one major investor estimated recently that after two years he had gotten back not quite 60 percent of his money.
 
Joy With a 'But' Clause
 This weekend, as Broadway indulges in its annual self-salute and presents the Tony Awards on national television, there is much to celebrate. More than 7.5 million people spent over $300 million on Broadway tickets in the season just ended, both figures topping those of the Great White Way's much-ballyhooed revival of a year ago. And half a dozen shows are already announced for October and November, indicating a reversal of the recent fallow-fall syndrome. Seemingly, by some standards anyway, Broadway has turned off the downward economic path it traced through the 1980's. 
 Yet "Will Rogers," which may be an egregious case, is far from an isolated one. By virtually all accounts, the odds against a show making money on Broadway are greater than ever.
 
Success Isn't Money
 To wit: "Guys and Dolls," hailed as the savior of Broadway when it opened in April 1992, reached the break-even point only in mid-February. "The Secret Garden," which closed in January after a run of 20 months, never made a profit; neither did "Jerome Robbins's Broadway," which ran for nearly two years, but closed in 1991 having failed to return more than 55 percent of its initial $8 million investment. "Jelly's Last Jam," winner of three Tonys a year ago, has still not recouped its investors' money either.
Gone are the days of "My FairLady," commonly said to have cost $350,000 to put on in 1956 and to have recouped in 12 weeks; it ran for more than six years. Gone are the days of "Fiddler on the Roof," which by June 9, 1965, less than 24 weeks after it opened, had paid back its $375,000 investment, and as of last month had provided a return of 3,390 percent. Gone, even, are the days of "Annie," which cost $1 million in 1977 and has earned about $300 million since then.
 
What Raises the Costs
 The fact is that rising labor costs, the high price of big-name talent (stars such as Martin Short and Bernadette Peters of "The Goodbye Girl" and Mickey Rooney, who joins the cast of "Will Rogers" as Will's dad on July 6, may earn $20,000 a week or more), and the spectacular sets and pyrotechnical effects that are expected now by audiences but which routinely cost $1 million or more, have made Broadway shows, particularly musicals, enormously expensive. So expensive that, with occasional exceptions ("Falsettos" is one), they have to run at least a year and sometimes much more to earn back their capital investments. The result has been not only fewer shows but, many people argue, blander ones as well.
Of course, investing in theater has always been a high-risk venture; more shows topple than soar. Always have, always will.
"But with movies, if you flop, you can still sell them in Mozambique," said Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses and both invests in and produces many shows. "Even horse racing has more downside protection than the theater."
 
And Low Reward
 Now, however, in addition to the high risk, the business of Broadway has also become low reward.
"The rule of thumb used to be that a musical should be able to pay back within six months," said Roger Berlind, who has produced and invested in some 20 Broadway shows since 1976. "Now the rule of thumb is a year." Mr. Berlind, whose successes include "City of Angels," which has returned about 150 percent on its original investment (a production is currently on in London), and whose failures include "Jerome Robbins's Broadway," said he's about even in the lottery; about half his shows have been moneymakers.
"People tell me that's pretty good," he said, though he added that the potential payoff is nowhere near what it used to be. "I don't think you can look for getting back 10 times your money any more," he said.
Is it any wonder that investors are scarcer than ever? "How do you tell people to invest in something that doesn't make money?" asked one entertainment lawyer who advises corporate and individual clients on theater investments. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he doesn't want his clients to know he thinks they're nuts.
Indeed, the economics have become so dicey that the business of investing has dwindled to very few hands. The proverbial Broadway angels -- people who put up some money and got out of the way -- have more or less vanished. And modest speculation by individuals interested in expanding their portfolios or thrilled by the prospect of proximate glamour has virtually disappeared; producers no longer seek out the hordes of small investors whose $1,000 or $5,000 or $10,000 checks once made up the bulk of Broadway money. After all, if a show costs $5 million, it would take a thousand $5,000-investors to put up the money.
"Used to be I had 80, 90, 100 investors in a show," said Robert Whitehead, the producer whose first Broadway show, "Medea," with Judith Anderson and John Gielgud in 1947, cost $75,000. "Now if somebody calls me and says, 'I've got $20,000 I want to put into your new show,' I say, 'Call me after I get the first million."
 
Who Pays the Piper?
The Real Business In Show Business
With the ever-vaster sums needed to put on a musical, it is not surprising that producers are turning more and more frequently to corporate backers. Corporations have helped finance the theater for decades, but now they are not necessarily seeking to profit from the Broadway run of a show. Rather they're eyeing the ancillary benefits of owning an original entertainment property.
A case in point is Polygram Diversified Entertainment, a two-year-old division of Polygram N.V., the European record company. The new division, which produces television specials and concerts as well as theater, has invested in three shows: "Jelly's Last Jam," which it is also helping produce; "The Goodbye Girl," the Neil Simon musical in which Polygram is only a financial partner, and an Off Broadway show, "CBS Live," which the company produced last fall. That one flopped.
John Scher, president of the new division, said that should "Jelly's" stay open into the fall, the investors could get back 125 percent of their money. Purely as a financial investment, he said, given the amount of time and effort that has already gone into earning that return, it stinks. Polygram's stake in "Jelly's" is $1 million, just under 20 percent.
"It certainly wouldn't be a good investment for John Scher as an individual," he said. "But for Polygram it is good. There are negotiations for a film, which Polygram has the right to produce. The cast album will far outlive the Broadway show. And then we've had the opportunity to work with some great talents -- George Wolfe, Tonya Pinkins, Savion Glover -- young talents with long careers ahead of them who now have a relationship with Polygram."
 
The Deep Pockets
 In addition to corporate backers, there remains a small band of deep-pocketed individuals who continue to invest in the theater for a living, and every veteran producer knows who they are. Among the names: Martin Richards, Terri Allen Kramer, Kenneth D. Greenblatt, Roger Horchow, Max Weitzenhoffer and Mr. Berlind. They are often the best-informed people on Broadway about projects in the works because they're asked to invest in almost every one of them.
"I call them 'the big 8,' because there's only about eight of them," said James B. Freydberg, the producer of "Fool Moon," who is about to try to raise $6 million for a musical adaptation of the film "Big."
"There are only a few of us, it's true," said Mr. Weitzenhoffer, whose investments include $500,000 in "Will Rogers" and $100,000 in loans to the show. "And the general perception is that those of us who do invest have nothing better to occupy ourselves. But the theater is a business, exactly like any other. You have to analyze every project carefully."
Mr. Weitzenhoffer, who holds a theater degree from the University of Oklahoma, said he got into the business end of the theater because he looked in the mirror one day and faced the fact that he was a lousy actor. His first venture was "Sleuth," the 1971 Tony winner, which was mounted for $150,000. Mr. Weitzenhoffer's stake was $6,000, and it was returned to him tenfold.
 
Pride Goeth
 "Then I thought I knew everything," he said, "and I promptly turned down 'Same Time, Next Year.' "
Eventually, said Mr. Weitzenhoffer, who has backed such successful ventures as "Equus," "The Elephant Man," "Mass Appeal" and "Les Miserables" (and who once lost $250,000 on a Broadway production of "Harold and Maude"), he expects to make money from "Will Rogers" because the road production of the show is proving popular and it hasn't even gone abroad yet. But he turned down the opportunity to invest in both "Guys and Dolls" ("I knew it would be a hit, but I didn't think it would be a moneymaking hit") and "Jelly's Last Jam" ("It was a terrific project, but I was concerned what would happen once Gregory Hines left. In 'Song and Dance,' when Bernadette Peters left the cast, the party was over.")
Another member of this small club is Mr. Berlind, a former Wall Street executive who became a full-time producer in 1976 simply because he had always loved the theater. He always invests in his own shows, he said, because looking after someone else's money is easier to do if you're also looking after your own. Asked about how he decides what projects to undertake, he said: "You start at the end. You try to make sure you can get everybody's money back within a certain time frame." His next project, a $4 million musical, "Paper Moon," is due on Broadway in the fall.
"It's like the stock market," Mr. Berlind said, about investing in Broadway. "The difference is you get your results immediately. And you can't get emotionally involved in securities. I mean, it is fun. Buy 100 shares of G.M. and there's no opening night party."
 
Theaters Also Invest
 A third group of investors is made up of Broadway's theater owners, which essentially means the Shubert Organization, the Nederlander Organization and Jujamcyn Theaters. The owners have been active investors for only about the last two decades. Before that, general practice was that shows were mounted on a sharing basis. Producers provided the show, putting up money for the creators, the performers, rehearsals and promotion. Theater owners invested not cash but other tangible assets: the house, the tickets and the crew. The revenues were divided, on the order of 70 percent for the producers, 30 percent for the owners.
In the early 70's, however, the Shubert Organization, then as now the largest theater owning group, adopted the system in practice in England, in which the theater owner, eschewing a portion of revenues, charges the producers rent as well as all the costs of running the theater while the show is on. Obviously, that's an increase in expenses for producers, and to help defray those costs and keep their own theaters lighted (in taxes and maintenance, a dark theater can cost an owner $15,000 to $20,000 a week), owners began to invest in shows, which they continue to do in varying degrees. (Of the three theater owners, Jujamcyn is the most aggressive investor; it also produces shows itself than the two other owning groups do.) Producers have welcomed the owners' money, of course, but it doesn't come without strings, for it ends up giving the owners added leverage in the business partnership.
 
Producers' Grumbles
 This arrangement, now commonplace, is generally disliked by producers. They say that it gives the owners an incentive to charge high fees for the use of their theaters and in effect gives the owners a guaranteed flow of cash from a show while the return to the other members of the investors' pool depends on the show's revenues.
For instance, the Nederlander Organization and the producer and investor Stewart Lane, who jointly own the Palace Theater, together have $1 million invested in "The Will Rogers Follies," and they are still some $400,000 short of recouping that investment; but for more than two years Mr. Lane and the Nederlanders have been collecting $20,000 to $30,000 a week from the producers for the use of the theater. The exact weekly figures vary because of complex formulas dependent on attendance, but the total is well over $2 million. And that doesn't count the nearly $100,000 a week it costs the producer to pay the salaries of the Nederlander employees who work in the theater. In other words, every week the producers of "Will Rogers" pay the theater owners $120,000 to $130,000 from the show's gross receipts. And after expenses, if the show makes money that week, the theater owner (as investor) gets a share of that as well.
Mr. Lane, who has had money in several shows at the Palace and is also a major investor in "The Goodbye Girl," was asked about the nature of investing in the theater these days.
"It helps if you own the theater," he said.
 
The Consequences
Blockbusters, Yes; Innovation, No
Interestingly enough, the way the Broadway economy has evolved, the percentage of shows that return their investors' money has not declined. Indeed, according to George Wachtel, director of research for the League of American Theaters and Producers, about one in three shows that have opened on Broadway in the last five years has at least broken even, a slightly higher percentage than has historically been the case. But in the two decades since inflation, labor costs and an increasing demand for spectacle on stage began to drive up production costs (and ticket prices), the number of shows has steadily diminished; 32 shows opened this season, down from 36 last year and 46 a decade ago.
Many theater professionals (and theatergoers) say the adventurousness of the whole Broadway enterprise has diminished as well. What gets onstage now, they say, is the hype-able theatrical event that can appeal to a mass audience. With the Broadway audience perceived as diminishing, the innovative show often does not find backers. Jim Freydberg, who has been producing on Broadway and Off Broadway for 20 years, said it is increasingly rare that potential investors want to read the script of a new show; instead, he said, if it has been produced elsewhere, they want to see the reviews.
"The problem with Broadway, it seems to me, is there aren't enough failures," said Robert Whitehead, who has been bringing shows to Broadway for five decades. "A lot of what we get now is 'event' theater, which has nothing to do with us, really."
The Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals, with their melodramatic stories, spectacular sets and sentimental melodies sung with operatic intensity are, of course, paradigmatic. They and others like them, shows like "Les Miserables" and "Miss Saigon," are financial juggernauts, of course, as close as Broadway has to sure things. And their producers have the luxury of keeping investors within a small favored family; shares are not offered to the public.
The difficulty of finding money for shows that would expand the Broadway horizon and return it to the days of the theatrical supermarket is especially evident with nonmusical plays. They are far less expensive than musicals, but with the exception of those written by Neil Simon and perhaps Wendy Wasserstein, they are not so attractive to Broadway theatergoers and, by extension, to investors.
"The Song of Jacob Zulu" got its financing of $1.4 million only after the creative team agreed to terms more favorable to the investors than to themselves; the show won six Tony nominations, including best play, but still closed at a huge loss after only 53 performances. "Angels in America," at $2.2 million perhaps the most expensive nonmusical ever, is still seen as a dubious venture by those who put up the money, even after the gargantuan media attention surrounding its arrival, even after the playwright, Tony Kushner, won the Pulitzer Prize, even after the sterling reviews. The producers estimate it will have to run at least a year to break even.
 
The Scramble
One Show's Fight To Find Investors
Even with musicals, though, struggling to raise money and to pay it back is the rule, not the exception. And "Will Rogers" is a case in point.
It was in 1982 that Pierre Cossette, a television producer best known for the annual Grammy Awards show, made a deal with the Rogers family, obtaining the rights to Betty Rogers's memoir to turn it into a stage show. Between then and his first backers' audition in November 1989 with the book writer, Peter Stone, joining Cy Coleman, Betty Comden and Adolph Green in performing their songs at the "21" Club, Mr. Cossette had raised $200,000 of his budget, which was then $6.25 million.
The first audition brought in another $200,000 -- from former Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon. Another audition, in January 1990, brought in $100,000. A third, on April 4, brought in, in Mr. Cossette's recollection, "not a damn thing," and another one a month later ended up the same. By that time, however, James Nederlander, the president of the Nederlander Organization, had come in for $1 million, though he wanted the show in the Gershwin Theater, which, because of its cavernous size, is more difficult to book than the Palace. Unfortunately, Tommy Tune, the director and choreographer, insisted on the Palace, and Mr. Nederlander's partner in the Palace, Stewart Lane, didn't want the show.
Finally, on Aug. 9, 1990, Mr. Cossette flew in the show's star, Keith Carradine, for a last-ditch effort at Tavern on the Green, and that, at last, did the trick. Mr. Lane changed his mind, and Japan Satellite Broadcasting, a communications conglomerate that wanted to be able to film the show for its pay-per-view network, expressed interest, though it didn't come across with a check just yet.
 
Time Runs Out
 By this time, however, things had been delayed so long that Tommy Tune was facing conflicts with other obligations, and the only way he could do the show was if it opened by the following May. Auditions for a far from fully financed show began on Nov. 1. On Nov. 15, the day before the scheduled first workshop of "Will Rogers Follies," the Japanese pitched in with $2 million; buoyed by this, Mr. Weitzenhoffer added $500,000, and a few other waffling investors finally bit the bullet. Still short, Mr. Cossette gulped and put in $1,150,000 of his own.
"We now had our $6.25 million," he said.
The rush at the end had its costs, as did the switch from the Gershwin to the Palace. Mr. Cossette said the move, the premature opening and a stepped-up advertising budget necessitated several investors' lending $1.25 million more to the production. And in addition, some 300 seats in the Palace's second balcony proved unusable because the scenery and lighting obscured the view.
"Those 300 seats are the difference between recoupment in a year and where we are now," Mr. Weitzenhoffer said.
So. The show opened. But running it, with its large cast and extravagant sets, cost the producers just under $400,000 a week, the largest "nut" of any Broadway show then running. According to figures provided by someone close to the show who insisted they be attributed to Will Rogers himself, equipment rentals and special effects alone cost more than $25,000 a week, advertising more than $50,000, salaries for the cast and crew about $130,000. Some recent frugality has brought the nut figure down a bit, to about $360,000, but that's still not low enough to guarantee a weekly profit. Over a recent four-week period, the show lost money twice; overall the profit was less than $100,000. That doesn't pay back a $7.5 million investment very quickly.
 
The Profits
The Money Comes After Broadway
Ultimately, Mr. Cossette said, largely owing to the road company of "Will Rogers," his investment will prove worthwhile. And that, too, is an indication of how the economics of Broadway have changed.
Road shows, blowing into small cities for, at most, a few weeks at a time, tend to be booked into huge auditoriums, sometimes three or four times the size of Broadway houses. One recent week at the Lyric Theater, a 2,522-seat house in Baltimore, the "Will Rogers" road show earned $446,000, or $100,000 more than the New York production did.
And because they have to travel, road productions tend to be less extravagant and less expensive than their Broadway counterparts; the road company of "Will Rogers" was financed for $4 million.
"You know how we light up all those steps in the show?" Mr. Cossette said, speaking of one particularly opulent set in the Broadway version. "Well, that costs a small fortune. We don't light them up on the road and nobody misses a thing."
 
The Up Side
 Max Weitzenhoffer said that though he regrets some of the things that happened to the Broadway production, he has no regrets about investing in "Will Rogers"; indeed, his investment on Broadway, which earns him a road royalty, also earned him an opportunity to invest directly in the road company, which he took advantage of, to the tune of $320,000.
"We'll make money," he said. "A significant change in the economics is that over the last 20 years for musicals there's now a world market." "Will Rogers," he said, is preparing to go to Japan and Canada.
"Broadway isn't where you make the money any more," Jim Freydberg said. "It's where you establish the project so you can make the money. When you mount a show now, you really have to think about where it's going to play later."
Perhaps the best summary of the situation was offered by Michael David, a partner in Dodger Productions, producers of "Guys and Dolls" and "Tommy," among others. In order to attract investors, he said, Dodger makes it a practice to consider things like merchandising, road companies and future production rights. "You have to create as many streams of income as possible; that's your job. That's the basis on which we produce a show. Broadway is just the taproot."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The general perception is that those of us who do invest have nothing better to occupy ourselve," said Max Weitzenhoffer, who invested $500,000 in "Will Rogers." "But the theater is a business, exactly like any other." (Starr & Company); "I don't think you can look for getting back 10 times your money any more," said Roger Berlind, who has produced and invested in about 20 Broadway shows since 1976.; "Now if somebody calls me and says, 'I've got $20,000 I want to put into your new show,' I say, 'Call me after I get the first million," said Robert Whitehead, the producer whose first Broadway show, "Medea," in 1947, cost $75,000. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C16)
 
Chart listing weeks open, cost and the percentage recouped of various broadway plays. (pg. A1)
 
Graph: "When a Hit Is Not a Moneymaker" shows the receipts and estimated expenses for "The Will Rogers Follies. (Source: The Will Limited Partnership Company) (pg. C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES; FORECASTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



65 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Ballet Theater Revives, With Help From Friends

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
American Ballet Theater, which last September was close to financial collapse, announced yesterday that it had paid a $2 million bank debt and raised an additional $1 million toward a new production of "The Nutcracker" to be performed in California in early December. The company also announced the formation of "The Partnership for A.B.T.," a special fund-raising task force headed by Peter Joseph, the new president of Ballet Theater's board, and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Peter Duchin and Wilbur Ross, a senior partner at Rothschild Inc., who played a major role in saving the New-York Historical Society.
"It's not a question of survival any more," Mr. Joseph, chairman and chief executive officer of Rosecliff, a merchant banking company, said yesterday. 
 Ballet Theater started its New York season in early May with a $5.7 million deficit accumulated during the directorships of Mikhail Baryshnikov and Jane Hermann. Kevin McKenzie, a 39-year-old former principal dancer with the company, became the director in October.
 
Large Personal Loan
 In addition to the bank debt, the deficit included $1.1 million owed to venders, $2 million the company owed to its cash reserve and a $600,000 loan from Howard Gilman, chairman of the Gilman Investment Company and a major supporter of the company.
Under the terms of the loan from Mr. Gilman, Ballet Theater may not borrow more money until it has repaid him. "While some might see that as restrictive, in fact I think it will help instill increased discipline in the organization and I hope will allow us to accelerate our regular fund raising," Gary Dunning, executive director of Ballet Theater, said.
"Kevin and I wanted to move quickly," Mr. Dunning continued. "The worst message would have been that it's business as usual at Ballet Theater. The best is, 'My God, we've got a plan and we're doing it.' The banks had to be dealt with first." The bank debt, he said, was hobbling the company's fund-raising efforts and its credibility.
One tactic used by Mr. Dunning, Mr. McKenzie and Mr. Joseph, as head of the partnership, was to convert skeptical potential donors and use them to encourage giving. When Lloyd Rigler, a philanthropist in Los Angeles, made a substantial gift toward the elimination of the bank debt, 15 board members followed suit.
The payment of the bank debt was also part of a stabilization plan, Mr. Dunning said, that started with the negotiation of concessions from unions representing company employees. In one such concession, the dancers agreed to a reduction of their contractually guaranteed 36 work weeks to 26 during the current season. They also agreed to extend their contract an additional year at the same wage levels and to negotiate the number of guaranteed work weeks in 1994 should reductions be necessary.
Mr. Dunning said that there were 26 weeks of work at this point and that several tours now under discussion would add an additional six weeks. "I think we'll be able to demonstrate to the dancers a real step forward after this first season," Mr. Dunning said. "This has been a hard season for them."
He said that the dancers, whom he described as some of the company's most effective advocates, had received training in public speaking and were being enlisted in the partnership's fund-raising campaign. Four performers are members of the group. A benefit party produced by the dancers and other company personnel in March raised $100,000. (Ballet Theater's annual spring benefit last month raised over $500,000.)
Mr. Joseph said that, with the bank debt retired, the partnership would concentrate on building up the company's cash reserve, "inducing new people who care about A.B.T. to get involved," and raising money for new ballets, including "The Nutcracker," which will cost a projected $1.5 million.
 
More Time in California
 Talks are under way for an additional two-week season at the Music Center in Los Angeles after the two-week premiere engagement of "The Nutcracker" at the Orange County Performing Arts Center in Costa Mesa. The production will be staged by Mr. McKenzie with a scenario by Wendy Wasserstein. "I can speak to businessmen and art lovers about 'The Nutcracker,' " Mr. Dunning said. "It's a nice focal point."
Another talking point, he said, is that Ballet Theater seems likely to be $100,000 under its $14.6 million budget (reduced from $18 million in 1992) for the fiscal year ending on Aug. 31. Asked about ticket sales for the company's current season at the Metropolitan Opera House, where it performs through June 12, Mr. Dunning would say only that sales were "just about what we expected."
The critically acclaimed engagement features the revivals of Sir Kenneth MacMillan's "Manon," Agnes de Mille's "Three Virgins and a Devil"; works by Harald Lander, George Balanchine and Glen Tetley, and company premieres of dances by Lar Lubovitch and Christian Holder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER ROTHSCHILD INC (71%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; FINANCES; CREDIT BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); THEATER (89%); DANCERS (89%); WORK WEEK (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH, PETER; ONASSIS, JACQUELINE KENNEDY; DUCHIN, PETER; ROSS, WILBUR; DUNNING, JENNIFER MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



66 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: A Deal on the Economic Plan

 BODY:
Three Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee -- David Boren of Oklahoma, Kent Conrad of North Dakota and John Breaux of Louisiana -- are threatening to hold President Clinton's economic plan hostage. Each insists that the Administration revise the plan's $70 billion energy tax that accounts for nearly a third of the total revenue increase but which threatens oil producers, farmers and manufacturers. Unless each Democrat votes yes, the plan won't clear the committee.
The White House believes it knows how to win over Senators Conrad and Breaux: Shrink and restructure the B.T.U. tax, and offset that lost revenue with additional spending cuts. But Mr. Boren's threat -- that he'll vote no unless the B.T.U. tax is dropped entirely -- is more ominous. Still, the White House holds powerful cards. With Senators Conrad and Breaux on board, Mr. Boren is unlikely to scuttle the plan and thereby single-handedly smash an already wobbly President. 
 On the merits, the White House shouldn't have to give up any of the energy tax and thus force it to squeeze investment programs. But a compromise appears necessary and tolerable. Mr. Clinton seems prepared to knock, say, $20 billion off the tax and restructure it to protect U.S. manufacturers. One way is to waive the tax on energy-intensive exports like petrochemicals and levy an offsetting tax on energy-intensive imports.
With these changes, the energy tax won't threaten U.S. businesses facing foreign competition. There are some technical problems with this solution, because export exemptions and import taxes are illegal under current trade law. If imposed unilaterally, they could interfere with completing the current round of international trade talks. But Congress has ways to impose energy taxes that do not bump up against trade agreements.
The knottier problem is deciding how to cut spending to make up for the $20 billion in lost revenues. The Finance Committee's easiest choice -- to cut Medicare, which is under its jurisdiction -- is the wrong choice. Premature pruning of Medicare would almost certainly interfere with the structure and financing of the President's health-care package, whose release is expected to be delayed until next month so that it won't get in the way of passing the budget.
The better place for the Senate to look for cuts is the President's list of discretionary programs -- even though his plan doesn't accommodate many of the useful investment initiatives promised during the campaign and, contrary to widespread belief, holds non-defense discretionary spending nearly constant.
Yet there are specific proposals -- like urban tree planting -- that could be sacrificed. And after Tuesday's senatorial election in Texas, Senate Democrats could take a fresh look at the $14 billion the Administration proposes spending on the superconducting supercollider and the space station.
Traveling to Wisconsin this week, the President heard from a generally supportive crowd the unsurprising message that voters want a smaller tax hike and the surprising one that they're willing to tolerate steeper spending cuts. The dual message provides the elbow room to meet Mr. Boren and friends halfway. Mr. Clinton can take the sting out of the energy tax without undermining his health-care initiative or backtracking on deficit reduction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); PETROCHEMICALS (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) DAN BOREN (90%); KENT CONRAD (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



67 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Guatemala's Counter-Coup: A Military About-Face

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, June 2

 BODY:
When President Jorge Serrano Elias startled Guatemalans last week with the announcement that he was dissolving the Congress and suspending the Constitution, his seizure of power seemed to have been accomplished at a stroke. The military, which had led many coups in the past, backed his actions and not a protester appeared in public.
But on Monday, the military switched sides and ousted Mr. Serrano. Today he flew to El Salvador, and the State Department in Washington said he was expected to travel to Texas to visit his ailing mother. 
 Why Mr. Serrano launched his palace coup in the first place and to what degree he initiated it or was pushed into it by the army was never entirely clear. But the reasons for his downfall were clearer.
Most important, it seems, was the concern of business leaders that Guatemala's rising exports to the United States and Europe could be devastated if threatened sanctions were imposed. Within hours of an American threat to cut Guatemala's trade benefits, business leaders who in the past had supported authoritarian rule began pressing government and military officials to reverse Mr. Serrano's actions.
Acknowledging tacitly that political power in Guatemala has spread, the businessmen also consulted Indian leaders and unionists, university rectors and newspaper editors. All were demanding a restoration of democracy with a public vehemence to which Guatemala is unaccustomed.
 
Moves Declared Illegal
 Unlike most of the military dictators who preceded him, Mr. Serrano felt the need for a modicum of legal approval. But instead of giving the compliant responses that authoritarian actions had received in the past, the Constitutional Court declared the President's moves illegal and the electoral board rejected his plan to hold new elections for an assembly to change the Constitution.
Mostly, though, Mr. Serrano needed the military and the military wavered.
As public opposition to Mr. Serrano's move grew, commanders who initially supported the President's action kept their soldiers off the streets, leaving it to the police to control the demonstrators who challenged a ban on public assembly and the newspapers that tried to evade censorship.
According to Guatemalans close to the military, the commanders heard stronger and stronger arguments from within the officer corps that by backing Mr. Serrano the army would squander what public support it had won since accepting the return of civilian rule in 1986.
The military command never explained its initial support for Mr. Serrano. Diplomats have speculated that the generals supported the ouster of corrupt politicians and some judges, or perhaps feared for the country's stability after the President's political coalition weakened and the militancy of street protests increased.
But when the Defense Minister, Gen. Jose Domingo Garcia Samayoa, began to back away publicly from Mr. Serrano on Sunday, he cited both international pressure and the need to keep the situation "from converting itself into a social explosion the consequences of which we can have no idea."
Efforts to restore democracy were thrown into confusion this afternoon when Mr. Serrano's Vice President, Gustavo Espina Salguero, announced that despite an earlier plan for him to resign so that a new leader could be chosen by Congress, he intended to remain as President.
General Garcia Samayoa seemed to try to distance the military further from the situation, calling Mr. Espina's move a fait accompli. But it was still not clear tonight whether the Congress would support Mr. Espina as well.
 
A March on Congress
 Even earlier, the democratic character of the political transition seemed questionable.
Though it appeared that the military made no concerted effort to take power itself, its claim to have removed the President in compliance with the orders of the Constitutional Court was somewhat absurd. The court had ruled Mr. Serrano's seizure of power unconstitutional a week before, and the military had stuck by him.
More liberal political, union and Indian leaders, including Rigoberta Menchu, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, sharply criticized the way in which Mr. Serrano was removed. "It is completely clear that this is a coup d'etat against the people," Ms. Menchu said as she led a small march today on the Congress, where legislators were making no apparent progress in negotiating a promised purge of corrupt politicians before moving on to choose an interim President.
That only a few hundred people turned out for the march may have proven Miss Menchu's point rather than refuted it. From conversations with ordinary Guatemalans, that turnout seemed to have less to do with the depth of their feelings than with the fear of political activity engendered by a conflict in which more than 100,000 people are believed to have been killed.
Mr. Serrano gave a jumble of reasons for his seizure of power, including his inability to push through needed economic policies and the destabilizing effects of student and worker protests against his austerity policies.
Mr. Serrano apparently hoped that his actions would be supported above all as a step to fight the corruption that many Guatemalans say is widespread in the Congress and the courts.
Initially, at least, the Guatemalans seemed willing to face international censure. Shortly after Mr. Serrano announced his measures, an American official noted that Guatemalan military officers had defied a series of court rulings against them for human rights abuses, including cases that prompted sharp criticism from the United States. "The army has certainly been thumbing its nose at us," the official said.
 
Businessmen Are Upset
 But Mr. Serrano's measures turned out to threaten much more than international criticism and the loss of tens of millions dollars in American and European aid.
After years in which the tourism industry has boomed under civilian rule, industry officials say, planes began to arrive nearly empty last week.
More important still was the reaction from nontraditional export industries like handicrafts, vegetables and clothing, which saw sales to the United States jump from $192 million in 1990 to $335 million in 1991. Businessmen in those areas were described as especially ardent in demanding that Mr. Serrano turn back.
The breadth of the movement against Mr. Serrano was clear from the name tags that military aides had placed on the high-back chairs where Guatemalan notables were to sit for the news conference announcing the President's departure. On either side of the generals and the head of the Constitutional Court were places for the Roman Catholic archbishop, three university rectors, the Government's outspoken human rights ombudsman and Miss Menchu.
And while Miss Menchu swept angrily out of the National Palace before the news conference took place, denouncing the military's role in the coup and the survival of corrupt politicians, the ombudsman, Ramiro de Leon Carpio, said he thought it enough to have had the counter-coup observe democratic forms.
"The concern was to come up with a legal solution," Mr. de Leon Carpio said today. "I think this is the only time in Latin America that a Constitutional Court has asked the Defense Minister for help."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a news analysis article on Thursday about the Guatemalan political crisis misstated the day of the military ouster of President Jorge Serrano Elias. It was Tuesday, not Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstrator outside Guatemala's Congress on Tuesday called for the reinstatement of the civilian legislature over the military leaders who thwarted a power seizure by President Jorge Serrano Elias. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; LABOR UNIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COUPS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CENSORSHIP (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); RIOTS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SERRANO ELIAS, JORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993



68 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Japan End Talks, Sparring

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, June 3

 BODY:
With the United States pressing a reluctant Japan to reduce its trade surplus, officials of the two nations sought support today for their opposing positions from the governments of other leading industrial countries, with both sides claiming some success.
Japanese representatives plan to meet in Washington next Friday with Clinton Administration officials to begin negotiating a framework for trade relations. President Clinton has insisted that such a framework include a Japanese pledge to buy specific levels of American goods as a measure of progress in whittling down the $50 billion trade imbalance in Japan's favor. 
 But the Japanese used the two-day meeting here of top trade and economic officials of the 24-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to argue that the specific targets sought by Mr. Clinton are contrary to free-trade principles.
Apparently seeking to capitalize on the feeling among many nations that the Clinton Administration is more willing than the Bush Administration was to be confrontational , Japan proposed unsuccessfully that the meeting's final statement include a passage denouncing managed trade.
 
The Japanese Argument
 On Wednesday, Hajime Funada, the Japanese Economic Planning Minister, said, "Some argue that setting numerical targets is a useful way of redressing current-account imbalances, but it is almost impossible to resolve the problem in such ways."
Such an approach, he added, "is not only impossible, but leads to a way of thinking that denies the very system of the market economy itself."
American officials -- including Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen; the President's trade representative, Mickey Kantor, and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown -- argued that Japan was, in Mr. Kantor's words, a "special case," and needed to be dealt with aggressively.
"Our friends are trying to divert attention from a serious problem," Mr. Kantor said of the emphasis on managed trade. "Clearly, the Japanese market is not as open as other markets in the industrialized world.".
In the end, the meeting produced a compromise statement that muted references both to managed trade and to Japanese trading practices.
The 24 nations pledged "to abide by and further strengthen multilateral disciplines" in world tariff talks.
They also promised to take "no recourse to initiatives and arrangements which are inconsistent with the principles of free trade and undermine the multilateral system."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
European Retaliation
 BRUSSELS, June 3 (AP) -- The European Community has threatened the United States with $15 million worth of sanctions in retaliation for a ban imposed last week on bidding for public contracts with a total value of $20 million.
A community diplomat said envoys on Wednesday approved "measures against the United States" that are similar to the American sanctions. The European measures must be approved by community foreign ministers, who will meet on June 8.
In addition, Bloomberg Business News reported, European representatives have asked Japan to reopen car-import talks, with the aim of setting still lower limits in view of of a sharp drop in European makers' sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (66%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUOTAS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



69 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Car and truck sales rose in late May, extending a string of increases and suggesting strengthening demand. Ford had record truck sales for the entire month while Chrysler had its best overall May sales in five years. [Page D1.] General Motors hopes to gain market share by holding the line on retail prices. [D4.]
A small-town lawyer has battled for seven years to return the Pacific Lumber Company, which was acquired in 1986 by Charles E. Hurwitz, a Houston financier, to the Murphy family that had managed it since the turn of the century. [D1.] 
 Dillon, Read's plans to raise $600 million by this fall for a fund to buy stakes in laggard companies was set back when a leading fund raiser decided against joining the firm. [D1.]
Tele-Communications and Time Warner agreed to press for industry standards for interactive television. [D1.]
Slipping sales of Tambrands' sole product, as well as questions of managerial competence, apparently led to the dismissal of the company's chairman. [D1.]
Federal Express lost 7.5 percent of its market value after two top-level executives said they would resign. [D3.]
The Limited promoted the head of its Express women's clothing division to vice chairman in a move to revive sales. [D3.]
Sunbeam-Oster's former chairman filed a $3.2 billion lawsuit against his partners, saying he was ousted in a conspiracy. [D3.]
Four Manhattan travel agencies were charged by New York City consumer officials with deceptive practices. [D4.]
The New York Times Company appointed three senior executives and created a five-member management committee. [D15.]
 
The Economy
Retail chains reported disappointing May sales, hurt by the weakening economy and continued uncertainty among consumers about higher taxes and health-care reform. [D3.]
Unemployment among New York City's teen-agers rose to 40 percent in the first quarter, the worst in 25 years. [A1.]
Long Island military subcontractors implored Federal and state officials to help them convert to civilian work. [B5.]
A new synthetic diamond created by scientists could replace silicon in semiconductors and have other industrial uses. [A19.]
 
International
Japan and the U.S. sparred in the final day of Paris trade talks, each seeking support from other leading industrial nations. [D2.]
Germany's recession deepened in the first quarter, with the economy contracting 3.7 percent in the better-off west. [D2.]
Russia's finance minister criticized "pseudo-Soviet thinking" by his colleagues and a lack of Western investment. [A6.]
 
Markets
The stock market was mostly lower in trading dominated by huge volume in two big issues, Hanson and Allstate. [D4.]
Treasury prices were only marginally higher as the bond market awaited today's employment report for May. [D12.]
Gold jumped more than $5 an ounce, but a broad rally was not detected. [D14.] The dollar meandered mostly higher. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Thermo Electron is one environmental company that has bucked the industry's slow growth trend. Market Place. [D4.]
The co-founder of an agency specializing in advertising to Hispanic consumers is leaving to establish a media company for Spanish-speaking countries. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS113310 LOGGING (72%); SIC2411 LOGGING (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP HUMBOLDT REDWOOD CO LLC (72%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); ALLSTATE CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); BONDS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LITIGATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); ADOLESCENTS (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (53%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P CHARLES E HURWITZ (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



70 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

PRISONER'S DEATH RULED A HOMICIDE
An epileptic prisoner who died in police custody at a Manhattan hospital was beaten to death while he was lying face down with his wrists manacled behind him and unable to breathe adequately, the New York City Medical Examiner said. He ruled the death a homicide. A1.
 
TEEN-AGE JOBLESSNESS AT 40 PERCENT
Unemployment among New York City's teen-agers rose to 40 percent in the first three months this year, the city says. That is nearly double the rate of two years ago and the worst in the 25 years that records have been kept. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
PRIEST PLANS HUNGER STRIKE
A suspended Episcopal priest says that he intends to go on a hunger strike at the diocese office until Bishop Richard F. Grein meets with him to discuss the suspension. His supporters also vowed to continue their protests until he is reinstated to his Mott Haven church. B2.
 
ONE-MONTH SENTENCE IN DEATH
A man has been sentenced to barely a month's time in jail, to be served on weekends, for his role in the death of an artist in a Greenwich Village street fight in 1991. The sentence drew angry responses from the victim's friends, who have assailed the handling of the case. B2.
 
DIRE FINANCIAL PICTURE UNVEILED
All but giving up hope that the city would receive much of the state and Federal aid they had been seeking, senior aides to Mayor Dinkins have presented their most dire view yet of the city's fiscal condition. B3.
 
DAILY NEWS PICKS JERSEY CITY SITE
New Jersey state officials and top officials of The Daily News said the newspaper would put a new printing plant in Jersey City. The planned move to an unused Clorox plant ends a heated battle between New York and New Jersey, which have both been seeking to win the plant's 1,600 jobs. B3.
 
A 1776 copy of the Declaration of Independence is the subject of a suit. B3.
 
New York City officials closed a busy section of Park Avenue to traffic for two hours. B3.
 
The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide delivered the main address via videotape at the Brooklyn campus of Long Island University for its 63d commencement. B4.
 
REGION
 
CAMPAIGNING FOR GOVERNOR
Jim Wallwork came to Morristown to greet shoppers and noshers around the Morristown Green at a campaign stop that showed the difficulties of winning votes in the Republican primary for New Jersey governor. B5.
 
LONG ISLAND COMPANIES SEEK HELP
With economists predicting continued decline for Long Island's military industry, a group representing more than 100 Defense Department subcontractors implored Federal and state officials to help them. B5.
 
Gov. Florio signed bills toughening penalties in car thefts. B5.
 
A power failure at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center forced an evacuation. B5.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Our Towns by James Barron B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Rainfall" shows the amount of rainfall in inches for Connecticut, New Jersey and New York from '88-'92. (Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOMICIDE (92%); SENTENCING (90%); DEATHS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EPILEPSY (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); CITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); RELIGION (74%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MAYORS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (64%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (61%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); POWER FAILURES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



71 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Ex-Chief of Sunbeam Files $3.2 Billion Suit

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The former chairman of the Sunbeam-Oster Company, Paul B. Kazarian, filed a $3.2 billion lawsuit yesterday against his investment partners in the consumer products company, Michael Price and Michael Steinhardt.
In the suit, filed in Rhode Island Superior Court, Mr. Kazarian contended that he had been the victim of a conspiracy that led to his ouster from the company, based in Providence, R.I., in January. He also contended that he had been denied the earnings he was owed and that the partners had attempted to smear his reputation. 
 Mr. Price's office was closed last night, and Mr. Steinhardt did not return a telephone call yesterday.
The suit is the latest, and certainly the biggest, volley in a legal and public-relations battle waged between Mr. Kazarian and the company he once ran as chairman, chief executive and president. His dismissal in January was unexpected, particularly because Mr. Kazarian was widely credited with turning around the company, the former Allegheny International, after it was brought out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 1990 as Sunbeam-Oster.
Since January, Mr. Kazarian and Sunbeam-Oster executives have been contending they were victims of the other's actions. Mr. Kazarian contends there was a conspiracy to remove him from the company, and thereby eliminate his veto power over key decisions and deny him the millions of dollars he says he is owed. The company counters that it was forced to remove an erratic and irrational boss who threatened to damage the company's value for shareholders.
Several legal actions between the various parties are pending. Shares of Sunbeam-Oster rose 25 cents yesterday, to $16.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In the suit, Mr. Kazarian charged that Mr. Price and Mr. Steinhardt and investment funds they controlled "regularly sought economic gains for themselves contrary to their fiduciary duties to Sunbeam."
For example, the suit contended that in the winter of 1991, Mr. Price, who at the time was a director and major shareholder of R. H. Macy & Company, put pressure on Mr. Kazarian to have Sunbeam-Oster "extend favorable terms" in its sales to Macy despite the fact that Macy was on the verge of filing for bankruptcy protection.
The suit also cited Mr. Kazarian's theory for why his partners wanted to remove him from the company: that their partnership agreement locked up Mr. Price's and Mr. Steinhardt's investment, and that their respective investment portfolios are under financial pressures that would be relieved by selling part of their stakes in Sunbeam.
He also repeated earlier contentions that certain Sunbeam executives conspired to drive him from the company because their employment contracts were not going to be renewed, and they would therefore lose valuable stock options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (94%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SUNBEAM-OSTER INC JARDEN CONSUMER SOLUTIONS (94%); MACY'S INC (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNBEAM-OSTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; ETHICS LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONSPIRACY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); VETO (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ETHICS (74%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; KAZARIAN, PAUL B; PRICE, MICHAEL; STEINHARDT, MICHAEL PAUL B KAZARIAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



72 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise by 5,000

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
The number of newly laid-off workers who filed claims for jobless benefits rose by 5,000 last week, an indication of what analysts said was a lackadaisical labor market.
"It seems to be basically more of the same," said Robert G. Dederick, an economist with the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "We're locked in a claims level which is consistent with job growth, but unsatisfactory job growth." 
 New applications for unemployment insurance totaled 344,000 last week, up from a revised total of 339,000 during the week ended May 22, the Labor Department said today. The department had originally said first-time claims were 340,000 for the earlier week.
Mr. Dederick said the unemployment rate would probably remain at 7 percent in May for the fourth straight month, though it could rise to 7.1 percent as students entered the job market. The department was scheduled to release the May employment report on Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NORTHERN TRUST CORP (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



73 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Hit Military Contractors Plead for Loans

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., June 3

 BODY:
With economists predicting continued decline for Long Island's military industry, a group representing more than 100 Defense Department subcontractors yesterday implored Federal and state officials to help them find the money to convert their companies to peacetime operations.
Without an infusion of cash, in the form of low-cost loans from banks and Government agencies, small and medium-sized companies that have long depended on military contracts will be unable to compete for commercial contracts and will close their doors, leaders of the newly formed group say. They say that during the last 18 months Long Island subcontractors seeking commercial business would have won $500 million in contracts if they had had the money to finance startup work. 
 Leaders of the organization -- with the unwieldy name of the Aerospace and Defense Diversification Alliance in Peacetime Transition -- said that it was formed to provide a forum for the vast network of subcontractors on Long Island and throughout New York that has flourished in the margins of military production.
The companies make everything from landing gear for jets to medical supplies for ground troops, and the subcontractors say their businesses have been hard hit by the military cuts of the last several years.
 
More Losses Forecast
 Long Island, home to the Grumman Corporation, a major manufacturer of military aircraft, has seen its military industry decline markedly in the last several years as a result of Pentagon cutbacks in weapons procurement and other programs. In 1985, for example, Defense Department contracts to Long Island companies totaled $5.28 billion; last year, the amount had dropped to $2.86 billion, said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
From 1985 to 1991, Dr. Kamer said, the state of New York lost 29,000 military-related jobs, with about half the losses occurring on Long Island. In the next four years, she said, the state could lose an additional 45,000 to 60,000 military-related jobs as a result of anticipated budget cuts.
"I think we see a continued downsizing through most of this decade," Dr. Kamer said.
Large and small companies that do business with the military are trying to offset the losses by moving more aggressively into commercial fields, like civil aviation. But some subcontractors -- companies that have relied on major military contractors like Grumman to pass on work to them -- say that while they have the technology and the personnel to compete, they lack the money. The Government, they say, kept them afloat by paying as the work went on, while commercial contracts typically pay upon delivery.
Greg Frisby, chief executive officer of Frisby Airborne Hydraulics Inc. of Freeport and head of the new group, said small and medium-sized companies must have a financial cushion to survive the transition. Today, at a news conference with the Nassau and Suffolk County Executives and four of the five members of the Long Island Congressional delegation, Mr. Frisby said local companies need about $200 million in loans to secure about $1 billion in commercial contracts.
 
Doing Commercial Work
 "Without access to low-cost working capital, a portion of New York's aerospace and defense-manufacturing base will find themselves facing two undesirable options: going out of state or going out of business," Mr. Frisby said at the news conference, at an aviation museum at Mitchel Field, the airfield where Charles A. Lindbergh took off in 1927 on his trans-Atlantic flight.
Mr. Frisby said his company, which employs 70 people and produces hydraulic systems for Boeing, Lockheed and other aircraft manufacturers, had depended on military contracts for 90 percent of its business until the mid-1980's, when another major Long Island aircraft maker, Fairchild-Republic, went out of business. His company survived, and today 75 percent of its work is nonmilitary.
Marc Finkelstein, another organizer of the subcontractor group, heads a company in Garden City that makes heat exchangers, a kind of radiator for jet and other engines. His company, too, has converted in the last few years from mostly military to mostly commercial work. But Mr. Finkelstein said that while he has $75 million in commercial contracts pending over the next decade, he has no cash on hand and has a hard time persuading banks to lend him money.
"We've made the conversion," he said. "The bad news is, we're broke." Like other subcontractors, he wants the Government to encourage banks to offer low-cost, long-term loans to the industry to allow it to expand. "We're not looking for a handout," he said. "We're looking for assistance."
State and Federal officials who attended the news conference said there were some financial initiatives and loan programs that could help the businessmen, but most were modest. Representative George J. Hochbrueckner, a Democrat from Coram, said that a $500 million Federal program to provide grants for new technologies had received requests for financing totaling $6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "DEFENSE: Post-Cold War Blues" shows the Prime Defense Department contract awards of more than $25,000 to Long Island companies, in billions of dollars from '82-'92. (Source: Long Island Regional Planning Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (82%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (82%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; CREDIT DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COUNTIES (73%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); CIVIL AVIATION (66%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



74 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Daily News to Shift Printing to Jersey City

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
New Jersey state officials and the owner of The Daily News said yesterday that the newspaper would replace plants in Brooklyn and Kearny, N.J., with one in Jersey City.
The planned move, to a Clorox plant, ends a heated battle between New York and New Jersey for the plant's 1,600 jobs. The decision is a victory for New Jersey and its Governor, Jim Florio, in an election year in which jobs are an important issue. 
 "I think New York made a serious effort," said Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the owner of The Daily News. "But we were able to find an existing building at an extremely competitive price, and that meant that we could not only avoid construction costs but also complete it a year earlier."
Governor Florio of New Jersey said in a statement that he was pleased by the announcement. But Mayor David N. Dinkins reacted bitterly, issuing a statement accusing New Jersey of using its share of rents from the World Trade Center "to finance a bidding war for these jobs." Through the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the two states share income from the center.
"In effect, lock, stock and barrel, the State of New Jersey bought The Daily News printing operation by providing a $35 million cash grant and full financing," he said. And he said that he was "very disappointed to learn that New York's hometown newspaper has decided to move its printing plant to the suburbs."
The Daily News announcement and Mayor Dinkins's sharp reaction made it clear that a so-called regional nonaggression pact dating to October 1991 was dead. New York State, New York City, New Jersey and Connecticut agreed at that time not to try to lure companies from the others.
 
No Specifics
 New Jersey state officials and Mr. Zuckerman refused to discuss the specifics of yesterday's deal, and Mr. Florio's statement said the Economic Development Authority was still developing "a financing structure."
A New Jersey official involved in the talks said that the financing package was likely to include a bond issue. Despite Mayor Dinkins's assessment, this official said that out-of-pocket cost to New Jersey would probably be less than $10 million.
Steve Villano, a spokesman for Vincent Tese, New York State's Commissioner of Economic Development, said New York was not prepared to match New Jersey's offer, which he characterized as "very generous."
He declined to discuss specifics but said: "If we feel that what's being asked is more than what we can afford, and if what's being asked per job is more than will benefit the state or the city, we say, 'This far we go, but prudence dictates that we can't go beyond that.' That was the case here."
The Daily News negotiations were the most recent in a series of talks over economic benefit packages intended to keep major companies in New York, including a deal with The New York Times last year to grant tax incentives, low-cost energy and other benefits worth a total of $29 million over the course of a 35-year lease to build a new printing plant in Queens.
The Daily News plans to consolidate its printing, which is now done at plants at Brooklyn and Kearny, N.J., that cannot handle four-color production. Another Daily News plant at Garden City, L.I., has not been in use for several years. The eventual fate of the Brooklyn plant was not disclosed.
The agreement to purchase the 251,000-square-foot Clorox building on 20 acres is contingent on engineering and environmental issues, the company's news release said, adding that closing on the sale is expected within in 90 days.
Mr. Zuckerman said he expected the plant to be working early in 1995. Clorox has previously announced that it expects to shut down its operations there by October of this year.
 
Split From Coliseum Issue
 The decision apparently signals that the question of the Daily News plant site has been disconnected from the issue of the New York Coliseum, which Mr. Zuckerman has an option to use as a development site. There have been reports over the past several months that the issue of a package of incentives to keep the printing plant in New York was closely intertwined with Mr. Zuckerman's eight-year-old plan to build a new development on the Coliseum site at Columbus Circle, a proposal that has been beset by court challenges and the decline in the New York City real-estate market.
While Mr. Zuckerman still has an option to build an office building on the Coliseum site, it is clear that building now would be folly because of the weak market. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which owns the buildings on the site, has collected proposals for an interim rental use of the site.
The M.T.A. has been interviewing those who submitted eight or nine of the 14 proposals with an eye to drawing up a short list of top contenders, M.T.A. officials said yesterday. Mr. Zuckerman's letter of credit, which serves as a down payment on the site, expires at the end of the month, and must be collected or renegotiated before then.
Asked yesterday about that issue, Mr. Zuckerman said, "I have nothing to say about the Coliseum but I hope to by the end of this month."

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey showing locations of The Daily News' current and new printing plant site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DAILY NEWS (NEW YORK) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAILY NEWS (NEW YORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; KEARNY (NJ); JERSEY CITY (NJ) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BONDS (71%); BOND ISSUES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



75 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: YOUTH JOBLESSNESS IS AT RECORD HIGH

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Unemployment among New York City's teen-agers rose to 40 percent in the first three months this year, the city said yesterday. It was nearly double the rate of two years ago and the worst in the 25 years that records have been kept.
The sharp increase indicated that the long recession has had an especially severe impact on young job seekers. "Our young people used to be on the bottom of the list -- now they are not even on the list," said John Bess, executive director of the Manhattan Valley Youth Program, a nonprofit group that helps teen-agers find work. 
 In a city where teen-agers have always had greater difficulty finding work than their peers elsewhere, the recession has deepened the disparity. The rate of joblessness for New York City teen-agers is now more than double the national average of 19.6 percent.
The report, issued by City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, covered teen-agers aged 16 to 19. It gave no separate figures for minority youths. Their jobless rate has consistently run far higher than that of white youths, however, and Ms. Holtzman's staff said they had no reason to conclude that the wide difference among races had narrowed.
 
Few Entry-Level Opportunities
 Experts attributed the young job seekers' plight in part to rigid new hiring constraints, imposed by many employers here and elsewhere, which have all but eliminated entry-level job opportunities. Instead of hiring newcomers, the employers are demanding more work and longer hours of employees already on their rolls.
The recession has worsened other barriers faced by teen-agers, but they are not expected to disappear when the economy improves, the experts said. Among them are the huge wave of immigration to the city, which has put thousands of adults in competition for work with young people, and the increasing technical sophistication required of all workers, from the mail room to the board room.
The 40 percent rate compared with a 9.6 percent overall rate in March, which increased to 9.8 percent in April. For all workers, the unemployment rate failed to provide a full picture of the problem of joblessness, because many frustrated job seekers simply stop looking and therefore are no longer counted as part of the labor force.
At City Hall, officials said the report prompted fears about the social stability of the city, as well as its economy.
"Kids are waiting for these jobs, and their expectations are high," said Josephine Nieves, the Commissioner of the Department of Employment. "At some point you have to tell them the jobs are not there, and it could lead to a volatile situation."
In its report, the city said the unemployment rate for teen-agers had risen almost steadily since 1987, when it stood at 17.9 percent, at that point only a shade above the national average. It said the rate had risen most rapidly since a year ago, when it stood at 30 percent.
The study derived its data from surveys by the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics released earlier in the year, which it adjusted for seasonal variations.
Although precise comparisons were not available, the report said that New York's youth unemployment would put it in close contention with Detroit for the unhappy distinction of having the nation's bleakest joblessness among young people.
The dire turn in unemployment comes amid setbacks for large summer jobs programs, which have been sponsored for years by both the city and private companies but seem certain to provide fewer jobs this summer than they have in past years.
 
Program Cut Back
 The city's program, which last year provided 52,000 summer jobs in government agencies, all at the minimum wage of $4.25 an hour, has been scaled back because Federal financing has been reduced. Ms. Nieves said the program will provide no more than 39,000 summer jobs this year, far too few to accommodate the 100,000 teen-age applicants expected.
A separate summer jobs program, administered by the New York City Partnership, a business group, created 42,500 jobs at private companies last year. But because of cutbacks at many of the same companies that have participated, "there are going to be significantly fewer" jobs available this summer, said Nelson Smith, vice president of the business group.
Analysts in Ms. Holtzman's office said that 25 percent of the city's 373,000 teen-agers 16 to 19 years old were counted as part of the labor force in the first three months of the year, meaning that they were either employed or looking for work.
This figure means that the young people were a tiny minority in the city's labor pool of 3.58 million workers and job seekers.
 
An Expanding Pool
 One encouraging finding was that more teen-agers have been looking for work -- only 22 percent of the 16 to 19 years had sought employment in 1992. But despite their efforts, fewer succeeded in the first three months of this year.
The soaring unemployment rate "clearly wiped out" the benefits of an expanding pool of job seekers, said John Tepper Marlin, the chief economist on Ms. Holtzman's staff.
"Big companies are lopping off their support staffs, and they are not willing to make commitments" to teen-agers or other new entry-level job seekers, he added.
For decades young New Yorkers people have faced a tough market for part-time and entry-level work, particularly when compared with teen-agers in the suburbs, smaller cities and rural America.
One reason is the city's vast scale and the centralized pattern of its employment. Where teen-agers elsewhere walk, ride bicycles or drive to after-school and summer jobs, many of New York's young people, living far from Manhattan, downtown Brooklyn and other job centers, have to endure long subway commutes to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TEENAGERS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); ADOLESCENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



76 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Mostly Lower, With Dow Off 8.58

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The stock market was mostly lower yesterday in seemingly heavy trading. But much of the volume came from two big active issues -- Hanson P.L.C. and the initial public offering of the Allstate Corporation.
The two stocks accounted for one-fourth of yesterday's Big Board volume of 285.6 million shares. In contrast, 295.6 million shares were traded on Wednesday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 8.58 points, to 3,544.87. But the Dow Jones transportation average fell sharply, losing 26.89 points, to 1,577.44. The transport average was dragged down mainly by seven stocks falling 1 3/8 points or more.
 
Market's Biggest Decliners
 The two big decliners were Federal Express and Burlington Northern. Federal Express, the air transport company, closed down 3 3/4, to 46 1/8, after the sudden defection of two top executives and the consequent downgrading of investment recommendations by analysts. Federal Express investors are nervous about management instability in a company whose prospects are tied to an uncertain economy.
Burlington Northern, the rail company, closed down 2 3/4, to 51, after reports that coal and grain traffic in May were leveling off.
Broader market indicators also declined, and there were signs that some traders were reluctant to buy stocks in advance of today's Government report on employment in May. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 1.36 points, to 452.49. The New York Stock Exchange composite index slipped 0.68 point, to 249.59. Declining stocks outnumbered gainers by 1,000 to 881.
But the Nasdaq composite index, with more than 3,500 smaller-capitalization and high-technology stocks, gained 0.36 point, to 706.22. And the American Stock Exchange market value index closed up 0.94 point, to 440.91 for the second consecutive record-breaking day.
 
Strong Demand for Allstate
 The biggest story of the day was the unsurprisingly strong demand for the initial public offering of Allstate by Sears, Roebuck & Company. Allstate was the second-most-active stock on the New York Stock Exchange, at 28.3 million shares, closing at 29 3/8 in its first day of trading.
The most active stock was Hanson P.L.C., a diversified holding company in Britain, with 44.7 million shares. Hanson's volume neared the volume for Royal Dutch/Shell with 45 million shares traded in a single day.
Like Shell, Hanson is in the middle of a gigantic dividend play among large investors, in which mostly institutional buyers seek to minimize their tax bills by either buying or selling the stock shortly after the ex-dividend date. The American depository receipts of Hanson closed down 1/8, to 18.
Retail stocks, especially Dayton Hudson, saw their shares fall over concern with the sluggish economy in general and sluggish retail sales in May in particular. Dayton Hudson, a big department-store chain, reported same-store sales that disappointed analysts. It closed down 3 1/4, to 66 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (94%); RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); TGT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (96%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) HANSON LTD (96%); ALLSTATE CORP (94%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); TARGET CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); BONDS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); DIVIDENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (60%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



77 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Just a Bit Higher

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Treasury prices were only marginally higher yesterday as the bond market awaited today's employment report for May.
The price of the 30-year bond was up 6/32 point, to 10312/32 , as the yield fell to 6.86 percent, from 6.87 percent Wednesday and the lowest it has been since May 12. 
 The biggest change in the bond market since then is that short-term interest rates have risen sharply. The higher rates followed reports that the Federal Reserve had shifted its policy to a bias toward higher interest rates because of rising inflation in the first four months of the year.
 
 
Yield Curve
 This means that the yield curve -- the difference between the yield on short-term and long-term maturities -- has narrowed sharply. On May 12, the yield on the 2-year Treasury note was 3.79 percent and the yield on the 30-year bond was 6.85 percent, for a spread of 306 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
By yesterday, the yield on the two-year note had jumped to 4.13 percent, cutting the spread to 273 basis points. That is just five basis points from the low for the year of 268 on May 27, when the yield on the 30-year bond was at 6.92 and the yield on the two-year note was 4.24 percent.
The sharp narrowing of the yield curve has given many traders a chance to make big profits. They do this by selling shorter-term securities, like the two-year note, and buying longer term securities. But this has been a hard bet to make because the spread has bounced around so much.
 
 
Looking for Clues
 In today's employment report, the market will be looking for clues as to how fast the economy was growing in the second month of the second quarter. Figures for the first quarter, which was extremely week, and for April show that the economy is growing but only sluggishly.
If today's data confirm that trend, there may be more room for long-term yields to fall further. And if the inflation data due out over the next two weeks are also subdued, then yields might have a chance of moving to new lows. But that development will probably also depend on the outlook for President Clinton's deficit reduction plan in the Senate. Although the prospects for the plan have improved recently, there is still a chance that it could quickly run into new trouble.
Forecasters are not exactly sure what to expect in today's employment data, with predictions for the increase in nonfarm jobs ranging from 55,000 to 225,000.
What might add some confusion to the interpretation of the jobs data today is that the Labor Department will be revising its old data as well. It is expected that these revisions will add about 25,000 jobs to the monthly data back to April 1992.
 
 
Municipal Bonds
 The New York State Dormitory Authority yesterday sold about $780 million of bonds as prices in the tax-exempt municipal market were little changed. The pricing of the issue is tentative, with both the final size and structure subject to some changes, according to the lead underwriter, Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The dormitory issue, which is for the refinancing of old higher interest rate debt for the City University of New York, was increased in size by about $100 million.
Robert Culnane, a vice president in the municipal bond department at Goldman, Sachs, said the size of the issue was enlarged because tax-exempt interest rates were a little lower than anticipated. This created more room to pay off more old bonds because the gap widened between the old interest rate levels and the rates on the refinancing bonds. When this gap widens, more old bonds become eligible for refinancing.
Under the tentative pricing, the yields on the issue were from 5.15 percent for bonds due in July 1999, 5.6 percent for bonds due in 2003 and 6.05 percent for bonds due in 2020. The taxable equivalent yield for these bonds at the current top tax rate of 31 percent is 7.46 percent, 8.12 percent and 8.77 percent, respectively.
 
 
Corporate Bonds
 TheChrysler Financial Corporation capped a busy day in the corporate market with a $1.2 billion asset-backed deal. The First Boston Corporation was the lead manager.
The certificates, backed by car and light-truck loans, are being sold to the public in four classes, with $252 million of the class A-1 priced to yield 3.375 percent. This class has an average life of 0.44 year and is rated P1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and A-1+ by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
A $403 million issue of class A-2 certificates with an average life of 1.34 years was priced to pay a floating rate of 15 basis points above the one-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and is rated triple-A by the rating agencies.
For $497 million of triple-A rated class A-3 certificates, with an average life of 3.09 years, the yield at pricing was 4.973 percent, while $48 million of class B certificates with an average life of 2.37 years and rated A-3 by Moody's and A+ by S.& P., was priced to yield 5.22 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TREASURY BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (95%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); YIELD CURVE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



78 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Plans More Cuts To Fill $280 Million Gap

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
All but giving up hope that New York City would receive much of the state and Federal aid they had been seeking, senior aides to Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday presented their most dire view yet of the city's fiscal condition.
They said they would now be forced to cut city spending by $280 million in the next fiscal year, including scaling back by half the 8,000 workers they had planned to hire. The spending plan that Mr. Dinkins presented last month called for a net increase of 1,500 workers during the next year; officials now expect to shrink the work force. 
 Since January, many City Council members and independent fiscal experts have been saying that the Mayor's hopes for additional aid were unrealistic and that he would inevitably be forced to cut services drastically. But First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel argued yesterday that the administration had been right to try to seek all possible aid before turning to painful budget cuts.
 
Dashed Expectations
 The $31.4 billion budget proposed by Mr. Dinkins last month included the expectation of an extra $280 million in aid from the state and an additional $250 million in Federal aid. The Mayor and the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, have visited Albany several times in recent weeks to seek aid. Advisers to the Mayor and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo have also met many times, often with legislative staff members.
The announcement by Mr. Steisel and Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, that the Dinkins administration would have to cut spending more severely than previously planned, and in the middle of a mayoral election year, served to kick off the final round of budget negotiations between the Mayor and the Council.
By law, the Council is required to approve the spending plan for the fiscal year that begins July 1 by tomorrow. The Council usually has extended the deadline in previous years, and yesterday all signs pointed toward another extension. But Council leaders and senior mayoral aides said they hoped to reach agreement on final details of the budget by late this weekend or early next week.
 
Less Than Hoped For
 While the city was seeking an additional $280 million in state aid, In the end, the negotiations have produced only $80 million to $100 million in new state aid, Mr. Jones said yesterday during a hastily called news conference in his tiny City Hall office. The Mayor and his aides have decided that they will have to cut spending to make up for the $180 million in state aid that they now think will not be received, he said.
City officials now say that they are likely to come up $100 million short of the $250 million in additional Federal aid that they have been seeking, he said. That, too, will be made up by spending cuts.
Where to make the reductions will now be the subject of private negotiations between the Mayor and Council leaders. Mr. Steisel said that talks between Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Vallone would probably begin today.
Mr. Jones said the Mayor would try to save $50 million by cutting in half the number of people he had planned to hire during the next fiscal year.
Previously announced efforts to hire new police officers and new teachers will not be affected by the partial freeze, but hiring in virtually all other city agencies will be, Mr. Steisel said. The Mayor hopes to avoid layoffs but cannot rule them out, Mr. Jones said.
Details of the hiring freeze and details of other spending reductions have not been worked out. Mr. Dinkins proposed a contingency list of $176 million in service cuts in his spending plan last month, including reductions in day care, summer school and drop-in centers for the homeless.
Preliminary talks between mayoral aides and Council staff members have produced tentative agreement on $55 million in spending cuts, Mr. Jones said. He declined to disclose details.
A few hours before the Mayor's aides announced the broad decisions reached in private meetings with Mr. Dinkins yesterday at Gracie Mansion, a senior member of the Council told reporters that local lawmakers had abandoned hope of getting much more help from Albany.
Councilman Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Finance Committee, said the Council's staff had presented the administration with a list of $350 million in spending cuts. Mr. Berman said he and other Council leaders believed that the potential budget gap caused by the city's inability to win more aid in Albany and Washington was larger than the administration's projections.
The Mayor has been criticized by some fiscal experts and his political opponents in recent weeks for failing to act decisively to deal with the uncertainties in his spending plan for the next fiscal year. Since January Mr. Berman and many other fiscal experts have contended that Mr. Dinkins's hopes for additional aid from Albany and Washington were unrealistic, and that when the aid did not materialize, he would be forced to cut services to balance the budget.
But Mr. Steisel said that it had made sense to seek the additional help, and he argued that, until Senate Republicans balked at President Clinton's economic stimulus plan, it had been realistic to hope that New York would receive $250 million in additional Federal aid.
"It made a lot of sense to go after it," Mr. Steisel said. "I think reality has now set in on a number of fronts."
"I think this shows that we have a very difficult circumstance and that we're willing to make tough decisions," he said.
Several fiscal experts warned that there were enough other uncertainties built into the Mayor's spending plan that additional cuts might be required later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



79 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Higher as Trading Slows Ahead of Jobs Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar meandered higher against most major foreign currencies in quiet trading yesterday ahead of the Government's release of employment statistics for May.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 107.25 yen, up from late Wednesday's 107.15 yen. The dollar also rose to 1.6003 German marks, up from 1.5975 marks. But the British pound edged up to $1.5438, from $1.5405 on Wednesday. 
 Economists expect today's employment report to show that nonfarm payroll jobs rose 55,000, to 225,000, in May. Typically, an increase substantially more than expectations would signify economic strength and help push up the dollar.
 
Attention Is on Inflation
 But some analysts said the currency markets were focusing less than usual on the monthly employment numbers after the Federal Reserve's decision last month to raise interest rates in the future, if need be, to help check inflation. That is diverting more attention to May inflation figures, scheduled to be issued beginning next week.
Higher interest rates would help lure more investors to dollar-denominated investments, thus increasing the dollar's value.
"Unless we get a significant aberration from market expectations, I don't see anything significant happening tomorrow," said Kevin Lawrie, foreign exchange manager at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "All eyes are toward next week's numbers to see what inflation looks like, in terms of the Fed's next move."
In early trading yesterday, the currency markets focused on rumors of interest rate changes. David Gilmore, a currency analyst with MCM Inc., said there were unconfirmed rumors around midmorning in New York that the British Government planned to cut a key short-term interest rate by one percentage point. That briefly helped the dollar gain against the British pound.
But there was little reaction to an announcement by Germany's central bank that it did not cut its discount rate, also a key short-term rate. The announcement was expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCM INC (66%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



80 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Jumps $5.40 an Ounce, But a Big Rally Is Doubted

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Gold prices jumped more than $5 an ounce yesterday, but analysts said the rebound from this week's steep losses lacked the broad-based buying that recently pitched gold to a 28-month high.
"The oomph of this rally was not as strong as some of the earlier rallies we've seen in the metal," said Martin Reichenberg, manager of trading services for Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J. 
 Other precious and industrial metals, including cooper, also rose sharply.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, the actively traded contract for gold for August delivery rose $5.40 an ounce, to $376.20.
The Commodity Exchange estimated total trading volume in gold at about 43,600 contracts. That would be less than Tuesday's volume of 67,400, when gold sank as much as $9 an ounce, and far below the 91,000 contracts traded on the last big rally, on May 27, when June gold climbed $6.10.
The market had been in a slide since reaching $384.50, a 28-month high, last Friday.
"We've had a very sharp downward move and I think today's action was just a correction within that," Mr. Reichenberg said.
 
 
'Buying on the Dips'
 Stephen W. Platt of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. said gold was still attractive to speculators. "I still get the impression that people are buying on the dips, and this was the kind of dip they were looking for," he said.
Mr. Reichenberg said the market would probably bounce between the recent high and low for several weeks, barring a recurrence of the inflation fears that underpinned the spring rally.
Traders will be looking for new signs of inflation in Government reports on May producer prices on June 11 and on May consumer prices on June 15.
Among other metals, copper jumped to a five-week high, with July copper gaining 2.8 cents, to 84.2 cents a pound, on the Commodity Exchange. Mr. Platt said the rally in copper was touched off by talk of Chinese buying in London and by auto makers' reports of strong sales in late May.
Meanwhile, July silver surged 9 cents, to $4.458 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange; July platinum leaped $8.90, to $392.60 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Elsewhere, gasoline led oil futures lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange after a petroleum industry report showed abundant gasoline stocks. Light sweet crude oil for July delivery fell 29 cents, to $19.74 a barrel; July heating oil fell 0.61 cent, to 54.19 cents a gallon; July unleaded gasoline fell 1.26 cents, to 57.07 cents a gallon, and July natural gas rose 0.06 cent, to $2.114 for 1,000 cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (67%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; FORECASTS COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); HEATING OIL (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (65%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



81 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: 3 Candidates Striving to Leave No Republican Unturned

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., June 3

 BODY:
Jim Wallwork came here to greet noontime shoppers and noshers around the Morristown Green today at a campaign stop that showed the difficulties of winning votes in the Republican primary for governor.
He shook the hands of Democrats. He shook the hands of independents. He even shook the hands of a few of New Jersey's 799,000 Republicans, who make up only about 20 percent of the state's 3.9 million registered voters. 
 Since only 350,000 of those Republicans and a handful of the state's undeclared voters are expected to pick the candidate who will face Gov. Jim Florio in the fall, Mr. Wallwork's campaign effort was more a media event than a serious search for voters, but it is a tradition, and the West Point graduate and businessman approached it with relish.
 
Mixed Results
 His first two contacts met with mixed results. Lorie Spohn of Morristown, a member of the Morris County Human Relations Commission, said that she was a Democrat but that if she were a Republican she would vote for Mr. Wallwork.
After the encounter Ms. Spohn said she was going to vote for Mr. Florio because of his fight to ban the sale and possession of assault weapons in the state and because "he's done a lot of good."
Guy De Torrice of North Brunswick, who was making a delivery to a store opposite the park, told Mr. Wallwork he would vote for him after the candidate identified himself as a "conservative businessman," the phrase that has been at the heart of Mr. Wallwork's campaign.
"Only conservatives are true Americans," Mr. De Torrice said. He said he would vote for Mr. Wallwork on Tuesday, and in November if he has the chance, "no matter what."
Mr. De Torrice said later that he had no use for any liberal, with one exception: "Ed Koch. I like him."
 
Going to the Air
 After spending about an hour in the park or in front of the stores that frame it, Mr. Wallwork left to do what his two opponents for the nomination, Christine Todd Whitman and Cary Edwards, were doing: preparing to tape a television program that will be broadcast on Sunday.
While the campaigns sharpened plans to get out their supporters on Tuesday, their final mailings and television and radio ads were aimed at swaying the undecided voters that Mr. Edwards and Mr. Wallwork hope will enable them to defeat Mrs. Whitman, who started the campaign as a strong front-runner.
The Edwards campaign started running a radio spot today that features the voice of former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, praising Mr. Edwards when he left the administration in 1988 after serving as Attorney General. The Whitman campaign said it was a thinly veiled attempt to make it appear that the popular former Governor was endorsing Mr. Edwards's candidacy.
Mr. Kean, the president of Drew University in Madison, said in a telephone interview that the Edwards campaign called him about using a recording of his remarks.
 
It's History
 "I told them anything I said on the record remains on the record, but I wanted it made clear that the remarks were made some time ago," he said. "I haven't endorsed anyone in this primary.
"I've also said some nice things about Christie Whitman and I have no objections to her using them as long as it is, again, made clear when they were said," he said.
The former Governor also criticized the television ads he seen from both the Edwards and Whitman campaigns, calling many of them negative and "inaccurate and unfair."
"At best some of the ads are exaggerations, at worst some are outright lies and I think the public knows it and doesn't want to hear it," he said. "The public wants to know what the candidates plan to do to lower the state's unemployment rate, which is the highest in the Northeast and probably the highest of any industrial state in the country."
He expressed concern that the ads would set the stage for Governor Florio's campaign strategist, James Carville, who, according to Mr. Kean, "has never been known to run a positive ad."
 
Has the Race Tightened?
 While Mr. Kean expressed his dismay at the tenor of the campaign, Mr. Edwards found something positive in Mrs. Whitman's recent ad comparing his record with Mr. Florio's when it comes to raising taxes and increasing state budgets. The ad concludes there is "not a dime's worth of difference" between the two. Mr. Edwards said that the Whitman campaign had begun running attack ads aimed at him proves that the race has tightened.
Mr. Edwards talked of a telephone survey of 5,000 likely Republican voters that his campaign conducted in Morris County on March 31. He said the survey showed that Mrs. Whitman had the support of 24.7 percent of the sample, he had 20.26 percent and Mr. Wallwork had 8.89 percent. The rest of the voters surveyed were undecided.
Mr. Wallwork this week talked of "soundings" of voters that convince him he will capture the nomination by a narrow margin over Mrs. Whitman by winning more than 40 percent of the vote with Mr. Edwards trailing badly. The only constant in the two self-serving reports is that Mrs. Whitman is the candidate to beat.
David Murray, Mrs. Whitman's campaign director, declined to discuss the campaign's tracking of his candidate's support but he said reports that her lead is slipping were untrue.
"She started as the front-runner when she announced and was endorsed by all six counties that held conventions to decide who to support, and nothing has changed," he said.
He said the television ad that got Mr. Edwards's attention used themes that will be emphasized in both the primary and general election, since taxes and spending are issues in both races. "We wanted to kill two birds with one stone," he said.
He also said Mrs. Whitman wanted to send a message to her opponents that she will not allow them to distort her record without a response.
"We want this to be an object lesson to Mr. Florio's attack-oriented campaign consultant that, beyond a shadow of a doubt, when faced with a slash and burn campaign, we will respond in kind," Mr. Murray said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Wallwork campaigning yesterday for the Republican primary for governor in New Jersey. He spoke with Lorie Spohn in Morristown. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times); Cary Edwards, left, who is also running for governor, meeting yesterday with Bob Grant, a radio announcer, in a restaurant in Woodbridge. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); LAWYERS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; EDWARDS, CARY; WALLWORK, JIM; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



82 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Thermo Electron bucks the slow growth in environment services.

BYLINE: By John Holusha

 BODY:
THE recent recession proved that the environmental services industry is not recession proof. In a downturn, companies with environmental liabilities can find ways to procrastinate before hiring someone to clean up their mess, even though the cleanup may be dictated by government regulation.
According to the Environmental Business Journal, a newsletter that reports on the industry, revenue growth last year was 3.9 percent, an improvement over the 2.1 percent rate of 1991, but well below the double-digit growth of the mid- to late-1980's. 
 Grant Ferrier, the editor of the newsletter, said the slow growth of the last two years did not mean there was pent-up demand building for environmental goods and services. Although much will depend on how rigorously the Clinton Administration enforces laws and regulations, he said, the industry outlook is for growth this year below the overall economy, with slightly greater-than-average growth in 1994 and 1995.
One company that has bucked the industry's slow-growth trend is the Thermo Electron Corporation of Waltham, Mass. Last year, Thermo Electron posted its eighth successive year of company records for revenues and net income. First-quarter earnings this year rose 22 percent, to $15.4 million, on revenues that increased 43 percent, to $293 million.
The company has an unusual structure and strategy. It is a grouping of a parent and seven partly publicly traded spinoffs. They include one of the largest environmental instrument companies, Thermo Instruments Inc.; a producer of paper recycling equipment, Thermo Fibertek, and a converter of truck and bus engines to run on natural gas, Thermo Energy Systems.
The shares of the parent company trade on the New York Stock Exchange while the spinoffs are on the American Stock Exchange. Thermo Electron shares closed yesterday at 60, up 3/8 and equaling its 52-week high. "The stock has had quite a ride since it was at 38 last August," said Kemp Fuller Jr. of RAS Securities.
The spinoffs are an essential part of the company's strategy, according to Nicholas P. Heymann, who follows some of them for County NatWest USA. He said the formula was to identify promising technology, develop it with as much government financing as possible and then spin it off as a separate company with the parent retaining a majority interest.
The idea, in the company's own words is to "combine the entrepreneurial features of new ventures with the advantages of a well-established, mature business."
"Basically what they do is take the technology, give the individuals involved plenty of upside -- stock and lots of options -- and raise money before they really need it," Mr. Heymann said. "They raise $20 million or $40 million and put it in the bank to provide a core income while they commercialize the products."
Thermo Electron was able to buck the United States recession because about half of the sales of its largest subsidiary, Thermo Instruments, were overseas. The unit produces equipment that monitors air pollution and analyzes food, drugs, water and soil for impurities.
Indeed, the strong performance is vindication of sorts for those who argue that nations with the strongest environmental laws are likely to be home to companies that develop the best monitoring and control equipment. Since these companies set the worldwide standard for pollution control equipment, they are attractive vendors for other countries that want to buy the most advanced gear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TMO (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (85%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (85%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THERMO ELECTRON CORP THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC (85%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: THERMO ELECTRON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPANY REPORTS RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SUPERFUND (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (78%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL SENSORS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (52%); PAPER MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



83 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: $346.4 Million Refunding Issued

 BODY:
The District of Columbia issued a $346.4 million general obligation bond refunding yesterday through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company. The offering will be used to redeem debt sold when interest rates were higher.
Initially, the bonds were priced to yield from 3.60 percent for an issue due in 1994 to 5 percent in 1998 and 5.35 percent in 2003. For investors in a 31 percent tax bracket, the taxable bond equivalent yields range from 5.22 percent in 1994 to 7.25 percent in 1998 and 7.75 percent in 2003. 
 The bonds in the issue that are not insured by the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company are rated Baa by Moody's Investors Service and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation. Tho insured bonds are rated triple-A by both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (70%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (70%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INSURANCE (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



84 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Wary Consumers Keep Retail Sales Stagnant

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Sales continued to stagnate for many of the nation's largest retailers in May, leaving the store owners and analysts who track their business wary about the outlook for consumer spending.
Retailers who reported their monthly results yesterday generally had disappointing news for the fourth consecutive month. 
 Store owners had hoped sales of spring apparel and other seasonal merchandise would pick up once the harsh weather of the late winter and early spring passed. But the weakening economy and continued uncertainty about taxes and health-care reform are nagging at shoppers and casting a shadow on retail profits.
 
 
Consumers Remain Cautious
 "The consumer remains extremely cautious," said Kenneth A. Macke, chairman of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, who warned that his company's second-quarter earnings would fall significantly from last year's results.
A few retailers, including Federated Department Stores Inc. and the May Department Stores Company, fared better than the others. But even they showed signs of weakness: Federated's chairman, Allen Questrom, said business in the Northeast lagged behind the rest of the country.
The big retailers' sales are considered an important indicator of economic health. Because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economy, Americans' willingness to shop determines how other segments, particularly manufacturing, will fare.
Analysts were pessimistic about the future. "The current economic news provides more disheartening data than positive evidence of a consumer recovery," Tom Filandro, an analyst with Gruntal & Company, said.
 
 
Retail Index
 The Salomon Brothers retail index, a barometer of sales performance, was up 3.7 percent after rising 2.6 percent in April. In May 1992, the index was up 5.6 percent as sales recovered from the recession.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, said sales at its stores open at least a year rose 6 percent from May 1992, while business at all its stores rose 23 percent.
Same-store sales are considered the most accurate assessment of how well a retailer is doing. The addition of new stores or the closing of older outlets can skew results.
Wal-Mart's sales remain below the double-digit increases it was known for in past years, a slip that analysts attribute in part to increased competition among discount retailers.
The Kmart Corporation said same-store sales rose 1.1 percent, while overall sales rose 10.8 percent. Uneven results from its specialty stores, including Pace warehouse clubs, have hurt Kmart's results.
Sears, Roebuck & Company said same-store sales were up 5.9 percent, and overall sales rose 4.9 percent. Sales for Sears were compared with extremely weak numbers last year.
Specialty apparel retailers got only a modest lift in sales. Limited Inc. reported its same-store sales rose 2 percent, while overall business was up 13 percent. Gap Inc. said same-store sales rose 3 percent, with overall sales up 14 percent.
 
Retailers' Sales Details
 Following are the details of domestic May sales.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Month of May: Same-store sales rose 6 percent; overall sales totaled $5.47 billion, up 23 percent from $4.44 billion.
Kmart Corp.
Four weeks ended May 26: Same-store sales rose 1.1 percent; overall sales totaled $3.24 billion, up 10.8 percent from $2.93 billion.
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales gained 5.9 percent; overall sales totaled $2.23 billion, up 4.9 percent from $2.12 billion.
Dayton-Hudson Corp.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales rose 1.1 percent; overall sales totaled $1.3 billion, up 7.7 percent from $1.21 billion.
J. C. Penney Co.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales rose 1.9 percent at Penney stores only; overall sales (including J. C. Penney, drugstores and catalogue sales) totaled $1.24 billion, up 4 percent from $1.2 billion.
May Department Stores Co.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales advanced 4.6 percent; overall sales totaled $831 million, up 7.4 percent from $773.4 million.
Federated Department Stores Inc.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales increased 4.4 percent; overall sales totaled $504.5 million, up 3.3 percent from $488.2 million.
Limited Inc.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales rose 2 percent; overall sales totaled $551 million, up 13 percent from $489.2 million.
Woolworth Corp.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store domestic sales rose 1.8 percent; overall domestic sales totaled $393 million, up 6.2 percent from $370 million. Total sales, including foreign, totaled $713 million, up 3.8 percent from $687 million.
Gap Inc.
Four weeks ended May 29: Same-store sales gained 3 percent; overall sales totaled $218 million, up 14 percent from $191 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); TGT (NYSE) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (82%); GPS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); TARGET CORP (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (82%); GAP INC (81%); KMART CORP (81%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (80%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (66%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FORECASTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SALES RETAILERS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SALES & SELLING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RECESSION (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); 

PERSON: KENNETH A MACKE (57%); ALLEN I QUESTROM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



85 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2538 words

HEADLINE: Gay Film Festival: The Personal and the Political

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
In "I'll Love You Forever . . . Tonight," Edgar Michael Bravo's gritty portrait of gay life in Los Angeles, a sullen young photographer is coaxed by his sometime lover into spending the weekend with some friends at a Palm Springs hideaway. What is supposed to be a restful little vacation turns into a joyless round of hard drinking and cold-blooded sexual games played by five good-looking men who seem totally at loose ends. Their emotional cruelty reminds the photographer of his childhood abuse by his father, whom he eventually telephones for an excruciating confrontation.
The tone of Mr. Bravo's film, which is being shown today and tomorrow at the Cinema Village as part of the New Festival, also called the 1993 New York Lesbian and Gay Film Festival, suggests Mart Crowley's play "The Boys in the Band," as it might be adapted and updated for 1993 in the spirit of Bret Easton Ellis's novel "Less Than Zero." If the film offers a bleak picture of one segment of gay life, it carries a nasty ring of truth. 
 "It's a society I know well," said Mr. Bravo, a 31-year-old film maker who studied at the University of California at Los Angeles and completed the picture for less than $100,000. "The movie is not so much a political statement as an emotional one." He cited the John Schlesinger films "Midnight Cowboy" and "The Day of the Locust" as influential for their realism, and Mr. Ellis's novel and Jean-Luc Godard's film "Masculine Feminine" as evoking the mood he wanted.
In emphasizing the personal over the political, "I'll Love You Forever . . . Tonight" typifies many of the 30 feature films being shown in the festival, which opened yesterday and runs through June 17 at Cinema Village. While issues like homosexuals in the military and the AIDS epidemic have a prominent place in the festival, they are more than balanced by films that have no direct link to current news stories and hot talk-show subjects.
 
Gender Balance
 Now in its fifth year, the festival is showing 78 films and 92 videos by artists from 13 countries, with a special emphasis on Canada, which contributed more than 20 titles. While the ratio of male to female film and video makers is about even, the fact that it is easier for men than for women to get financing for their projects is reflected in the fact that the majority of the feature-length films are by men. Lesbians made the majority of documentaries.
The festival comes just as the number of films with gay and lesbian themes that are entering the mainstream of international cinema has expanded from a trickle into a flow. Over the last three years, Gus Van Sant's "My Own Private Idaho," Jennie Livingston's "Paris Is Burning" and Craig Lucas and Norman Rene's "Longtime Companion" have won large audiences and critical acclaim. "Paris Is Burning" had its premiere at the festival, as did Tom Kalin's "Swoon" and Monika Treut's "My Father Is Coming," two other films that went on to have commercial runs.
This fall, Jonathan Demme's big-budget film "Philadelphia," which stars Tom Hanks as a gay lawyer with AIDS, opens nationally. If it has any kind of success, Hollywood, which has long deemed gay subject matter to be uncommercial, could begin incorporating more gay characters and themes into its films.
"The increasing number of features with gay and lesbian themes has upped the stakes for everybody," said Jeffrey Lunger, who programmed the festival with Sande Zeig. "This year the general standards of film making are higher. There are a lot more features and a lot fewer videos."
"We're strengthening our position with the media and in getting mainstream reviews," Ms. Zeig said. "We've got the perfect public for test screening and word-of-mouth screening for a niche audience that a distributor might be looking for."
 
Tour of the South
 One of the festival's most anticipated documentaries is Ellen Spiro's "Greetings From Out Here." The video film, which Ms. Spiro made for just $45,000, is a personal tour of the South in which the director visits a lesbian music festival, a gay rodeo, a gay Mardi Gras ball and a gathering of Radical Faeries in the hills of Tennessee. She also encounters a lot of colorful and sympathetic local characters who are not gay.
"I'm a Southern expatriate who escaped to New York," said Ms. Spiro, who is 27 and grew up near Richmond, Va. "When I came to New York and became a raging activist, I started thinking about the gay people who didn't leave and stayed where they were. Going back, I found a very rich and diverse gay culture. I was also interested in showing the human South that breaks from the New York stereotype of Southerners as cross-burning racists."
One of the festival's more intense and visually arresting films is Mark D'Auria's "Smoke." The film was written, directed and edited by Mr. D'Auria, who also plays the lead character. "Smoke" explores the obsessions of a restroom attendant who has a preference for overweight, older men. After he is shot by a crazy woman while praying in a church, the lines between fantasy and reality begin to blur. As they do, the connections between his family, his Roman Catholic faith and his sexual imagination are revealed in baroque, feverish imagery.
"The film is a reverie that is about 60 percent autobiographical," explained Mr. D'Auria, who is 38 and a graduate of the Art Institute of Chicago. "It took me three years to make and cost $35,000. I built the sets by myself. For two years, I lived under an editing machine."
"I happen to like heavyset older men, but it can be difficult to be gay and to be attracted to these sorts of men," he added. "Sometimes you really do feel like an outsider among outsiders. But after the film premiered at the Rotterdam Film Festival, a lot of older women came up to me and said it was refreshing to see an older person eroticized in a nonironic way."
 
Varied Moods
 Beyond same-sex orientation, there is little if anything to connect this year's films to one another in style, mood and theme. Aerlyn Weissman and Lynne Fernie's film "Forbidden Love: The Unashamed Stories of Lesbian Lives" is an imaginative mixture of fact and fiction that intercuts documentary interviews about being lesbian in the 1950's and 60's with a cinematic dramatization of a typical 50's-style pulp lesbian novel.
Amos Gutman's "Amazing Grace" is an Israeli film that explores the volatile relationships among a network of gay and straight friends and their families in the age of AIDS.
The central character in Ryosuka Hashaguchi's "Slight Fever of a 20-Year-Old" is an ostensibly heterosexual economics student who hustles his body to men and becomes involved with a male co-worker in a club where they both work.
Rico Martinez's "Glamazon: A Different Kind of Girl" offers a close-up portrait of Barbara LeMay, a 61-year-old drag performer who worked for years as a stripper in carnivals and tent shows. The film follows her on a visit to her coal-mining West Virginia hometown where she reminisces with friends and neighbors.
In their harrowing documentary film, "Silverlake Life: The View From Here," Tom Joslin and his companion, Mark Massi, who both had AIDS, videotaped themselves living with AIDS and eventually dying. Earlier this year, the film, which was completed by their friend Peter Friedman, shared the award for best documentary at the Sundance Independent Film Festival.
At once lyrical and psychologically acute, "The Blue Hour," a German film by Marcel Gisler, details the affair of a gay callboy and the woman who lives next door.
Temistocles Lopez's "Chain of Desire," a very loose remake of "La Ronde," follows the sexual connections of an assortment of downtown Manhattanites of different sexual orientations.
Joan Jubela's "Homo Teens" offers incisive portraits of gay and lesbian teen-agers in New York City. The short video will be shown in the "Grrrls and Boyys" program at noon on June 12.
One of the most innovative artists in the festival is Cheryl Dunye, a young black video maker whose pieces explore issues of gender, race, class and sexuality in an intimate, deliberately crude cinema verite style.
 
Rebel Spirit
 If the work being shown in this year's festival is an extraordinary mixture of creativity, candor and sophistication among lesbian and gay film makers, some, like Ms. Zeig, worry that the rebel spirit in gay and lesbian culture could eventually be lost.
"As gay and lesbian lives come into mainstream press and media and we are acknowledged and accepted," she said, "I maintain that we're not just like everyone else, that our politics and life styles are subversive. We're not all interested in fitting in, getting married or joining the military. Some of us want to change society, and some of us do that by programming gay and lesbian film festivals."
 
78 Films and 92 Videos From 13 Countries
 The New York Lesbian and Gay Film Festival runs through June 17 at the Cinema Village 12th Street, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village. Tickets are $7 for each screening. There will be panel discussions and lectures by the film makers throughout the festival. Information and schedule: (212) 807-1820.
 
Today
 
"I'LL LOVE YOU FOREVER . . . TONIGHT" (1992), directed by Edgar Michael Bravo, 2 P.M.
 
"SPLIT" (1992), directed by Ellen Fisher Turk and Andrew Weeks, and "LADY" (1993), directed by Ira Sachs, 4 P.M.
 
"DEAD OF NIGHT" (1945), directed by Alberto Cavalcanti, Charles Crichton, Basil Dearden and Robert Hamer, 6 P.M.
 
"THE BLUE HOUR" (1992), directed by Marcel Gisler, 8 P.M.
 
"WILD IMAGININGS," short films, 10 P.M.
 
"THE GAY DECEIVERS" (1968), directed by Bruce Kessler, midnight.
 
Tomorrow
 
"THE BLUE HOUR" (1992), directed by Marcel Gisler, noon.
 
"CALAMITY JANE" (1953), directed by David Butler, 2 P.M.
 
"BELLE" (1992), directed by Irma Achten, 4 P.M.
 
"I'LL LOVE YOU FOREVER . . . TONIGHT" (1992), directed by Edgar Michael Bravo, 6 P.M.
 
"FORBIDDEN LOVE: THE UNASHAMED STORIES OF LESBIAN LOVE" (1992), directed by Aerlyn Weissman and Lynne Fernie, 8 P.M.
 
"THE PRINCE IN HELL" (1992), directed by Michael Stock, 10 P.M.
 
"THUNDERCRACK!" (1975), directed by Curt McDowell, midnight.
 
Sunday
 
"TWINKLE" (1992), directed by George Matsuoka, noon.
 
"SPLIT" (1992), directed by Ellen Fisher Turk and Andrew Weeks, and "LADY" (1993), directed by Ira Sachs, 2 P.M.
 
"THE EAST IS RED" (1993), directed by Ching Siu-Tung and Raymond Lee, 4 P.M.
 
"SLIGHT FEVER OF A 20-YEAR-OLD" (1993), directed by Ryosuka Hashaguchi, 6 P.M.
 
"I, THE WORST OF ALL" (1990), directed by Maria Luisa Bemberg, 8:20 P.M.
 
"AMAZING GRACE" (1992), directed by Amos Gutman, 10:30 P.M.
 
Monday
 
"BELLE" (1992), directed by Irma Achten, 2 P.M.
 
"THE PRINCE IN HELL" (1992), directed by Michael Stock, 4 P.M.
 
"THE BAND WAGON: A TRIBUTE TO STEPHEN HARVEY" (1953), directed by Vincente Minnelli, 6 P.M.
 
"WILD IMAGININGS," short films, 8:20 P.M.
 
"GLAMAZON: A DIFFERENT KIND OF GIRL" (1993), directed by Rico Martinez, 10 P.M.
 
Tuesday
 
"SLIGHT FEVER OF A 20-YEAR-OLD" (1993), directed by Ryosuka Hashaguchi, 1:40 P.M.
 
"I, THE WORST OF ALL" (1990), directed by Maria Luisa Bemberg, 4 P.M.
 
"ENCHANTED" (1993), directed by von Diepenbroick, Fockele, Golombek, Hauska, Jehna, et al., 6 P.M.
 
"THANK GOD I'M A LESBIAN" (1992), directed by Laurie Colbert and Dominique Cardona, 8 P.M.
 
"I AM MY OWN WOMAN" (1992), directed by Rosa von Praunheim, 10 P.M.
 
Wednesday
 
"GLAMAZON: A DIFFERENT KIND OF GIRL" (1993), directed by Rico Martinez, 2 P.M.
 
"AMAZING GRACE" (1992), directed by Amos Gutman, 4 P.M.
 
SNEAK PREVIEW, 6 P.M.
 
AT FIRST SIGHT, short films, 8 P.M.
 
"SMOKE"(1993), directed by Mark D'Auria, and "MA VIE" (1992), directed by Denis Langlois, 10 P.M.
 
Thursday
 
"ENCHANTED" (1993), directed by von Diepenbroick, Fockele, Golombek, Hauska, Jehna, et al., 2 P.M.
 
TO BE ANNOUNCED, 4 P.M.
 
"TWINKLE" (1992), directed by George Matsuoka, 6 P.M.
 
"SILVERLAKE LIFE: THE VIEW FROM HERE" (1993), directed by Tom Joslin and Peter Friedman, 8 and 10 P.M. This is a benefit for the Media Network's "Seeing Through AIDS" and "Fear of Disclosure" projects. Admission: $35; $75 for the film and reception.
 
June 11
 
"SMOKE"(1993), directed by Mark D'Auria, and "MA VIE" (1992), directed by Denis Langlois, 2 P.M.
 
AT FIRST SIGHT, short films, 4:10 P.M.
 
SAFERSISTER short videos, 6 P.M.
 
AN EVENING WITH CHERYL DUNYE, videos, 8 P.M.
 
QUEER ANIMATION, short videos and films, 9:50 P.M.
 
CRUISERAMA, short videos, 12:10 P.M.
 
June 12
 
GRRRLS AND BOYYS, videos, noon.
 
"THIS SPECIAL FRIENDSHIP," (1961), directed by Jean Delannoy, 2 P.M.
 
SO WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO GET MARRIED? short videos, 4 P.M.
 
REVIEWING THE TROOPS, short films and videos, 6 P.M.
 
A TRIBUTE TO CECILIA DOUGHERTY WITH LESLIE SINGER, videos, 8 P.M.
 
UNDERGROUND FILM: THE EROTICS OF MYTH, films, 10 P.M.
 
"SEX IS . . ." (1993), directed by Marc Huestis, noon.
 
June 13
 
"PORTRAIT OF A MARRIAGE" (1990), directed by Stephen Wittaker, noon. Admission: $10.
 
"ONE NATION UNDER GOD," (1993), directed by Francine M. Rzeznik and Teodoro Maniaci, 4 P.M.
 
COMING ATTRACTIONS, short videos, 6 P.M.
 
KIDS IN THE HALL, a tribute to the comedy troupe, 8 P.M.
 
RE: VISIONS, short films, 10 P.M.
 
June 14
 
AN EVENING WITH CHERYL DUNYE, videos, 2 P.M.
 
QUEER ANIMATION, short videos and films, 4 P.M.
 
"BEYOND OUTCASTS" (1992), directed by Ivan Arocha and David Hernandez and "FORBIDDEN LOVE" (1990), directed by Vladislav Kvasnicka, 6:15 P.M.
 
"LES ABYSSES" (1963), directed by Nico Papatakis, 8:15 P.M.
 
IT TAKES A FAIRY, short videos, 10:15 P.M.
 
June 15
 
A TRIBUTE TO CECILIA DOUGHERTY WITH LESLIE SINGER, videos, 2 P.M.
 
"LES ABYSSES" (1963), directed by Nico Papatakis, 4 P.M.
 
DANCER FROM THE DANCE: THE CAMERA AND LESBIAN AND GAY VISION, short videos, 6 P.M.
 
RADIO COWGIRLS AND OUTLAW RIDERS, a slide and video presentation by Marilyn Burgess, 8 P.M.
 
"BEYOND OUTCASTS" (1992), directed by Ivan Arocha and David Hernandez, and "FORBIDDEN LOVE" (1990), directed by Vladislav Kvasnicka, 10 P.M.
 
June 16
 
IT TAKES A FAIRY, short videos, 2 P.M.
 
CRUISERAMA, short videos, 4 P.M.
 
"SACRED LIES, CIVIL TRUTHS" (1993), directed by Cyrille Phipps and Catherine Saalfield, 6 P.M.
 
DANGEROUS WHEN WET, short videos, 8 P.M.
 
DEDICATED TO THE ONE I LOVED, short films and videos, 10 P.M.
 
June 17
 
DANCER FROM THE DANCE: THE CAMERA AND LESBIAN AND GAY VISION, short videos, 2 P.M.
 
DANGEROUS WHEN WET, short videos, 4 P.M.
 
"PARTY" (1993), directed by Charles Sessoms and "OUR HOUSE: GAYS AND LESBIANS IN THE 'HOOD" (1992), by Black Planet Productions, 6 P.M.
 
"GREETINGS FROM OUT HERE" (1993), directed by Ellen Spiro, and "RULES OF THE ROAD"(1993), directed by Su Friedrich, 8 P.M. Closing night benefit for the festival. Admission: $15, includes party.
 
"CHAIN OF DESIRE" (1992), directed by Temistocles Lopez, 10 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from Ryosuka Hashaguchi's "Slight Fever of a 20-Year-Old," at the Lesbian and Gay Film Festival. (Terence Womble/David Rothenberg Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; HOMOSEXUALITY; FESTIVALS; NEW YORK LESBIAN AND GAY FILM FESTIVAL; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) FILM (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (75%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN JOHN RICHARD SCHLESINGER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



86 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2704 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Rhythm of the Road, at 10 Miles an Hour

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
I SING the body exhausted.
Dehydrated and jelly-legged, sunburned and sweat-grimy, I'd been bicycling the road from Boston since dawn and had spent a big part of the warm afternoon on unexpectedly vertical terrain in northeastern Connecticut. New York City, my final destination, seemed as distant as China. And for an hour, ever since Union, Conn., (the gateway to Nipmuck State Forest, an extremely popular place among black flies), I'd been saying two words in my head, over and over, repeating them like a mantra: Stafford Springs, Stafford Springs, Stafford Springs.
In college, there'd been a guy who lived on my hall whose hometown was Stafford Springs, Conn. I didn't know him at all, don't know what happened to him, but 20 years later, huffing and puffing through the pretty hills of nowhere, I conjured him up, remembered him as an affluent sort. And putting that memory together with the bold print with which the town was emblazoned on my wrinkled Connecticut road map, I concluded: there will be a motel in Stafford Springs. There will be an excellent restaurant there. 
 The sad punch line, of course, is that Stafford Springs is not a particularly affluent place; it's pleasant enough, but actually a little run-down. And more to the point, the closest motel is almost 20 miles away, in Enfield, at the exit off Interstate 91. Now, if you are in a car and tired of driving, 20 more miles to go is an irritation. On a bike, it is evil itself, the essence of unfairness.
So. As if on cue, a beautiful afternoon had suddenly grayed over. It was nearly 5, maybe two and a half hours before dark. I drank two bottles of grape Gatorade (a relatively new flavor, really good, I think) and, having no choice (I wasn't carrying a sleeping bag), pedaled on.
People tend to ask why I like to ride a bicycle over stretches more frequently traversed by planes, trains and automobiles. I usually say I like the idea of the bicycle as an implement of travel rather than of simple recreation.
The old saw about traveling by bicycle is that it's seeing the world at congenial speed; at 10 miles an hour, exposed to the elements, you're connected with the road and the scenery in a way you can never be in an automobile. All that's true. On a bicycle you can count roadside mailboxes and judge the quality of the hand-painted ducks and hunting dogs on them. Animals -- skittering chipmunks, barking dogs, grazing horses, the occasional fox or deer peering curiously from the woods at roadside -- become compatriots. I talk to them: "Hi, pal"; "Shut up, you ugly mutt!" Once, on a whim, I delivered Marc Antony's funeral oration at a herd of stupefied cows. (You feel worse about road kills, flattened raccoons and opossums, than you do in a car.)
But beyond that, leaving the house on a bicycle, I've always liked the idea of ending up somewhere else, traveling toward a place rather than circling back to where I began. And I've never been much of an advance route planner, preferring the love-hate relationship one develops along the way, in myriad foldings and unfoldings, with that cold bearer of both good news and bad, the road map.
There's something random and idiosyncratic about a trip like this, a series of solitary experiences tied together with a ribbon of road; even if they're mundane, they're singular and personal. And it's titillating; it feels a little unsafe. You can have an adventure and then, when it's over, you can actually measure your achievement in miles.
And part of the point of a long bike trip is to wear yourself out. It's the thing you banish from your mind as you begin but take the hugest pride in at the end of the day. The muscles that ache in weird places (your hands hurt from gripping the handlebars and absorbing the rattle of the road); the creakiness in your knees and ankles from hours of rotating in their joints; the odd strain in your backside; the thirst that goes on all day and lasts for hours into the night, and the sense of utter depletion you can feel, it seems, in your cells: this sounds torturous, I know, but I experience it as reward.
A day on a bike has purchasing power. You buy yourself a ravenous appetite and the freedom to indulge it. You buy a well-deserved, untroubled and renewing sleep. And because getting to a distant place on your own power is both a physically difficult task and a conceptually simple one, you buy yourself an unambiguous test. You reach your destination or you don't. Hard work toward a definite goal; it's easy to concentrate. How many things are like this in life?
 
Awkward Start? Good
 I'd taken my bike up on the train from Manhattan the previous day and started back from downtown Boston at chill dawn. Trying to slip through the door of the Omni Parker House Hotel, I accidentally caught one saddlebag on the jamb, and the bike nearly clattered to the sidewalk. It was an awkward start, but I wouldn't say inauspicious. The start of a journey should be awkward, because the pleasure -- and the achievement -- lies in finding a rhythm.
I rode through the Commons, then over Storrow Drive to the esplanade along the Charles. At Massachusetts Avenue I crossed the river to the north bank and followed it west. There were runners out, student types, and a couple of crews were already on the water. Wearing tights and a windbreaker, I was cold anyway, and uncomfortable on the bike seat. I felt like an unwelcome stranger, like a Yankee in Fenway Park. I had a discomforting moment of doubt: it's a long way home.
I turned south in the woodsy suburb of Weston. It was about 7 by then, and the sun had begun to burn away the early mist, dappling the road. Traffic was heading against me; it was Friday, a workday in the city.
South of Natick, where I stopped for breakfast with Glenn and Nina, some conveniently situated old friends, I found Route 16, an amiable state road with modest grades and modest traffic. It points southwest, almost right at New York City, and that was helpful. Though traveling by bike is by design a scenic meander, you need a straight shot now and then for the sake of psychic momentum. I put a couple of towns behind me, Sherborn and Holliston, and began to see the map of Massachusetts in my head from the vantage of someone who'd covered some distance on it. In Milford, Mass., I passed a bike shop and stopped to pick up some spare inner tubes, which I'd foolishly left without. And there, from a salesman, I got the first warning of the hills to come.
"Any way of getting around them?" I asked.
"Nope," he said, with an unkind trace of relish, I thought.
It was midmorning and I stripped to shorts and short sleeves. I rode through Hopedale, Menden, Uxbridge, quaintly stolid and unremarkable towns of the sort that pepper the nation, though in a dirt parking lot in Uxbridge, behind a convenience store, there was a slightly bizarre sight: a two-seater airplane, upside down, lying on its roof with its landing gear sticking up like the legs of a dead insect.
Just north of the tristate junction of Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island, the road bent west and grew rural. The land began to roll a bit; houses grew farther apart. Roadside delivery boxes declared that neighbors were getting different newspapers: The Worcester Telegram and Gazette and The Norwich Bulletin. Between Douglas and Webster, there's a body of water fantastically called -- no kidding, look on the map -- Lake Chaubunagungamaug. And to an outsider who just happened to be passing through, a smug New Yorker used to living at the center of the universe, it felt like a place between places, wonderfully nowhere.
Route 16 gave way to Route 197, which dipped into Connecticut, and at a crossroads I decided, for reasons as impetuous as thought through, to go west now and south later. The idea was to go around Hartford to the north, and the next day head down toward New York through Litchfield County; I'd been there and vaguely remembered it as lovely. Of course, it didn't quite happen this way, mainly because Route 197 turned out to be what the bike store salesman was talking about. An undistinguished squiggle on the map and in fact a beautiful rural byway traversing deep woods, the road has a number of hateful qualities, particularly if you're on a bicycle, pretty tired, nearly 40 years old and not in the shape you once were. Who knew Connecticut had a mountain range in it?
In the couple of hours that I spent trudging (as in walking and shooing away clouds of bugs) up the hills of 197 and gliding down, two things happened. It occurred to me that Litchfield County has similar terrain, so I began revamping my plan. And I started to think: Stafford Springs. Stafford Springs.
 
Rules of the Road
 Two good rules for the bike traveler. Get your miles in early, before the sun gets high and before a lot of cars hit the road. And whenever possible ride near water: river roads and beach roads are not only scenic; they're also flat.
At dawn on Saturday, I left Enfield and plunged south, along the Connecticut River. I was feeling good. There were miles behind me; I'd got through a tough day. It was a dewy and damp morning, but sunny, and the rhythm of the ride was warming. The state road, 159, passed through Windsor Locks, then over the interstate highway, snuggling against the river and through the town of Windsor, its wide quiet streets and large well-scrubbed houses yielding a picture of sturdy New England. It was a pretty stretch, 10 miles or so, a ride you'd take for pleasure if you lived near there and the kind of place you'd take bike trips to discover.
I turned west, away from the river, alas, to circumvent Hartford. I ate breakfast at a homey-looking cafe in Bloomfield -- unfortunately the waffles were disappointing -- and turned south again, passing through West Hartford, an affluent suburb. Meaning to angle to the southwest, I missed a turn -- the road was straight and easy and I had that feeling you get that traveling south you're somehow going downhill -- and by the time I discovered my mistake I was in the blue-collar neighborhoods of New Britain, a city with a despondent, recession-weary feel. But I was enjoying myself, pumping hard, and the road kept dropping to the south and I followed it. By late morning, I was in Meriden, and at a McDonald's I grabbed rest and sustenance: a chocolate milkshake for energy, a Coke for thirst and then, because I got goose-pimply as my sweat dried, a cup of coffee.
As it turned out, the afternoon was, once again, tougher. Eventually I would make it to Fairfield, on Route 1, along the Sound, but the day before had, in fact, taken a toll. From Meriden, zigzagging my way to the southwest on a number of pesky hills, grueling not so much in grade but in number, I needed frequent stops, at one point lying in the sun by a roadside picnic table and actually dozing until a dog licked my nose and woke me up.
The guy who owned the dog wanted to trade bicycling stories; half my age, he pulled up his pant legs and showed me his calves, which reminded me of cannonballs, and he said he'd ridden to Toronto and back that morning, or something like that.
"Yo!" he said. "Where'd you come from? Boston? What time'd you leave?"
It was maybe 3 in the afternoon; this was near Ansonia, Conn., maybe 75 miles from New York.
"You'll make it," he said, meaning that night.
I thanked him for the chat as I mounted and rode slowly off.
"Yo!" he said. "No problem."
From there it was slow and steady to Derby, where I made another wrong turn; instead of turning south along the Housatonic River, I turned north. I hadn't gone far before I realized my mistake, but I kept going anyway. Weary as I was, it was a great stretch of road. There was a slightly encouraging breeze, the pavement was brand-new, the vista along the river -- hills rose steeply from the opposite bank -- was inspiring and I was zipping along comfortably at speeds I hadn't hit all day. There were college crews racing on the river, and keeping up with them, coming toward me on the road, were several long-haired teen-age boys on Rollerblades.
"Go Yale!" they were shouting.
I paid for this interlude, of course. The road followed the river for five or seven miles, then crossed it, over a dam, and began to climb on the opposite side; at a crossroads, I consulted the map and learned, heartbreakingly, that I wanted Route 111, which pivoted directly into the slope.
It turned out to be the heftiest climb of the whole journey, an unrelenting mile. I didn't need this, nor did I need the friendly guy who lived halfway up and who was mowing his lawn as I passed.
"Hey!" he said, with a proud smile. "Killer hill, huh?"
 
Pain and Persistence
 In Fairfield Sunday morning I woke ready for the final sprint along Long Island Sound to the city, but getting out of the motel bed and planting my feet on the floor, I felt a razor-ish pain near the heel of my left foot. I couldn't rotate the ankle at all, and could barely hobble into the bathroom. Was my Achilles tendon torn? I had no recollection of a trauma; I hadn't twisted my ankle or inadvertently kicked anything. What can you do to yourself in your sleep? The sun was just up. I was 55 miles from home. Gingerly, I arranged myself on the bike.
Route 1, of course, gets a fair amount of traffic, but not at 6 A.M. on a Sunday. I covered some ground, but within an hour, the whole ankle was swollen; it had stopped feeling like a torn tendon and started feeling like a sprain. I made it about halfway to the city, to Cos Cob, Conn., and, sitting on the side of the road on a patch of grass in front of a tennis court, I thought about calling an ambulance.
I didn't. Playing with pain, as it were, I continued riding and made it to the New York line, then negotiated the suburban trail on Route 1 through Mamaroneck and Rye, the meaner streets of New Rochelle and finally the rugged Eastchester section of the Bronx. At high noon, as I checked a map on Boston Road, a cop stopped and directed me to the Gun Hill Road subway. I took the subway to Manhattan; so shoot me. I got home in time to see the Knicks whip Charlotte, my swollen ankle propped on a coffee table.
Two days later, I walked, easily enough, to the doctor. The ankle was still swollen but it didn't hurt. The explanation was simple: I'd overextended myself.
"You ever do 50 pushups after not doing any for six months?" the doctor said. "It doesn't hurt right away, but when you wake up in the morning . . ." He said it was likely that I hurt one ankle and not the other because I probably held my feet in slightly different positions on my bike pedals.
I know how this all sounds. You are thinking: Jerk! No wonder you got hurt. What kind of a stupid thing are you doing bicycling back to Manhattan from Boston in a weekend? And the best way I know to answer this is to go back to my moment of dejection in Stafford Springs.
The woman who gave me the sad news about the closest motel also said I would have to climb an enormous hill to get out of town. And she was right. I had to walk up most of it, mounting the bike again only as I neared the crest, but soon the road mercifully leveled for good.
It was just then that the sun came out again, directly in front of me because I was traveling west, and the sensation of moving toward the light was palpable and energizing.
I reached Enfield sooner than I'd expected. I napped (read: collapsed) in the motel, then went across the road to a Chinese restaurant in the strip mall there. Drinking beer and eating spare ribs, I was so tired that I realized when I'd finished that for 20 minutes or so I'd been reading and re-reading the paper place mat. According to the chart there, I was born in the year of the snake. The incredibly mundane conclusion of my weary mind was this: If I hadn't made it past Stafford Springs, I'd never know that.
Afterward, lying in bed, some other things I realized that day occurred to me. For one, things that seem torturous and tormenting don't stay that way; anguish isn't permanent. For another, I was going to make it home. Drifting off to sleep I thought, "Now I'm getting somewhere."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bicycler in Union, Conn.: A way to see the world at a congenial speed (and experience the elements). (Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. C32)
 
Drawing. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BOSTON (MASS) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BICYCLES AND BICYCLING; NYTRAVEL CYCLING (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (87%); DOGS (85%); SPORTS DRINKS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



87 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Echoes of the Vietnam War Are Still Resounding

BYLINE: By HERBERT MITGANG

 BODY:
The late, great Vietnam War lasted more than 10 years -- longer than the United States engagement in two World Wars and the Korean War -- and it continues to be a guiding fact in American foreign and military policy. The Vietnam Syndrome remains a cautionary warning against adventurism in no-win wars or, contrariwise, as a lingering attitude that some unrepentant hawks want discarded. The famous hundred-hour victory in the Persian Gulf was sui generis; it hasn't changed the views of key American decision makers, who do not want to stumble into the current ethnic-religious-border war in the Balkans.
Nearly two decades after the end of the Vietnam War, a new round of books explores the war's aims; how and why the United States got involved; who the Vietnamese people are and what they thought about the foreigners who came to their villages as warriors; the behavior of American soldiers in battle; the campus wars and the peace movement at home, and how correspondents reported the war while facing pressure from their publications, networks and government. 
 The half-dozen nonfiction books mentioned here by no means exhaust the Vietnam theme. For instance, the failed air war, in which more bombs were dropped than in both the European and Pacific theaters during World War II, is not covered. This much is certain: in fact and fiction, personal stories from both sides will continue to appear about the hearts and minds that were lost, and sometimes discovered, in Vietnam.
In "UNDERSTANDING VIETNAM," Neil L. Jamieson, who was an officer of the Agency for International Development in wartime Vietnam and is now a senior associate of the Indochina Institute at George Mason University, discloses what the American military and political leadership largely misunderstood: the nature of Vietnamese society, the confrontation with colonialism and Western values, the resistance of the intellectuals, the culture of the people.
Mr. Jamieson writes of United States-Vietnam relations today: "Americans and Vietnamese of all political persuasions and all generations and all walks of life must work to expand the sense of 'we' and to diminish the sense of 'they.' And, "if we cannot increase empathy and vanquish self-righteousness, if we cannot expand our moral imaginations to discern and accept the pattern that connects us all in a common human condition, then we shall all continue to have lost the war in Vietnam, to perpetuate a struggle in which there are no winners."
Stan Sesser, author of "THE LANDS OF CHARM AND CRUELTY," has reported on Southeast Asia in the last few years for The New Yorker. Among other countries in his book, he visits Laos and Cambodia, war zones kept secret from the American public. How do the people who survived the B-52 raids now react to an American visitor along the old Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos?
Surprisingly, Mr. Sesser was greeted with unfailing courtesy. He asked a district leader why the bombing failed to disrupt the North Vietnamese supply lines. The leader replied: "Essentially, all that happens is that you make a few holes in the ground, and they are later filled up. You destroy a few trucks, and they are replaced. You kill some people, and they are replaced also. You can make things uncomfortable, but airplanes can't stop people. You have to physically possess the territory."
In "THEN THE AMERICANS CAME," Martha Hess, who traveled all over Vietnam in 1990 and 1991, succeeded in interviewing dozens of men and women who wanted their stories to be known. The book includes more than 40 photographs taken by Ms. Hess and Vietnamese photographers. Together, the interviews and grainy photographs revive memories of the human cost of the war.
Some of the saddest stories in "Then the Americans Came" concern children abandoned by American fathers. One 18-year-old man, working in a tailor shop in Hue and dreaming of America, told Ms. Hess: "But because of my face, my hair, I never think that I am Vietnamese. Everything about me looks American. And I consider myself an American. It is the country of my father, but the United States Government and the O.D.P. [Orderly Departure Program] delegation, they don't understand."
In "WORKING-CLASS WAR," Christian G. Appy, assistant professor of history at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, delivers facts and figures to show that the soldiers who did the fighting and dying in Vietnam didn't represent a cross-section of American youth. Children of working-class parents were drafted; those who came from prosperous families went to college. After studying records and interviewing those who served (and those who didn't), Professor Appy concludes that "America's most unpopular war was fought primarily by the 19-year-old children" of parents whose own work lives were "not only physically demanding but in many cases physically dangerous."
At the same time that the dangerous war was being fought in the jungles of Vietnam, "CAMPUS WARS" were being fought in the United States by antiwar protesters. Kenneth J. Heineman, assistant professor of history at Ohio University-Lancaster, found that the campus peace campaign was first spurred at state universities rather than at the big-name colleges. His useful book examines the outside forces, like military contracts and local communities, that led to antiwar protests on campus.
Although some of the tales in "PAPER SOLDIERS" have been twice-told, Clarence R. Wyatt, who teaches history at Centre College in Danville, Ky., broadens the story of how the press covered the Vietnam War despite the efforts of the Pentagon and the White House.
While there was no formal censorship in Vietnam, reporters did agree to abide by ground rules. They weren't supposed to write about future operations, casualties suffered by "friendly" units or tactical matters that might help the enemy. Jack Foisie, a respected frontline correspondent for The Los Angeles Times, was one of the few reporters whose accreditation was temporarily lifted for not getting on the team. The author says his research reveals that "more often than not, the press reported official information, statements and views with relatively little dissent."
"Paper Soldiers" shows that the strongest reporters did manage to get most of the military (if not the political) facts out to their readers and listeners, far more so in troubled Vietnam than later from the news-controlled battle areas in Panama, Grenada and the Persian Gulf.
 
The Books
"UNDERSTANDING VIETNAM," by Neil L. Jamieson. 428 pages. University of California Press. $35.
 
"THE LANDS OF CHARM AND CRUELTY: TRAVELS IN SOUTHEAST ASIA," by Stan Sesser. 306 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $23.
 
"THEN THE AMERICANS CAME: VOICES FROM VIETNAM," by Martha Hess. 239 pages. Illustrated. Four Walls Eight Windows. $22.95.
 
"WORKING-CLASS WAR: AMERICAN COMBAT SOLDIERS AND VIETNAM," by Christian G. Appy. 365 pages. University of North Carolina Press. $39.95; paper, $14.95.
 
"CAMPUS WARS: THE PEACE MOVEMENT AT AMERICAN STATE UNIVERSITIES IN THE VIETNAM ERA," by Kenneth J. Heineman. 348 pages. New York University Press. $40.
 
"PAPER SOLDIERS: THE AMERICAN PRESS AND THE VIETNAM WAR," by Clarence R. Wyatt. 272 pages. W. W. Norton. $22.95.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: UNDERSTANDING VIETNAM (BOOK); LANDS OF CHARM AND CRUELTY (BOOK); THEN THE AMERICANS CAME (BOOK); WORKING-CLASS WAR: AMERICAN COMBAT SOLDIERS AND VIETNAM (BOOK); CAMPUS WARS (BOOK) ; PAPER SOLDIERS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (57%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE ; VIETNAM WAR VIETNAM WAR (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); RELIGION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MITGANG, HERBERT; JAMIESON, NEIL L; SESSER, STAN; HESS, MARTHA; APPY, CHRISTIAN G ; HEINEMAN, KENNETH J; WYATT, CLARENCE R

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



88 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
SOUTH AFRICA SETS ELECTION
The Government and most of South Africa's opposition parties settled tentatively on April 27, 1994 as the date when the country's black majority will cast their first votes. A1
 
CAMBODIA FORMS A GOVERNMENT
Prince Norodom Sihanouk announced on Thursday that he had forged a coalition Government in which he would be Prime Minister, then said today that he was abandoning the plan, apparently because of a long-standing family dispute. A1
 

Prince Norodom Sihanouk was a king at 19 and a prisoner by 20. A8
 
CONTEST FOR AN ENVOY'S POST
The White House asked both former Vice President Walter F. Mondale and Richard C. Holbrooke if they would like to be ambassador to Japan. But no choice has been made, and the old friends are reluctant competitors. A1
 
A PROMISE MADE IN BOSNIA
The commander of the United Nations military forces in Bosnia said that the leader of the Bosnian Serbs had told him that he had ordered a cease-fire around the besieged Muslim town of Gorazde. A12
 
U.S. takes another step away from from Bosnia intervention. A12
 
U.S. pushes for a vote on the plan for safe havens. A12
 
GERMANS SEEK ACTION ON ARSON
In Germany, thousands gather to memorialize five Turkish women and girls killed in an arson attack and to demand action from German officials. A3
 
Guatemala announces that its Vice President is taking over. A5
 
Spanish youth, increasingly conservative, threaten the Socialists. A9
 
In Gabon, oil brings wealth, and high prices. A10
 
Russian official says his colleagues can't let go of Soviet thinking. A6
 
U.S. is taking a softer line toward Ukraine on nuclear weapons. A7
 
U.S. officials think there are more drug tunnels from Mexico. A11
 
Jerusalem Journal: Palestinian merchants in a quandary. A4
 
National A14-20
 
CLINTON WITHDRAWS NOMINATION
President Clinton withdrew his nomination of Lani Guinier as the new civil rights chief, saying he could not defend many of the views she expressed in her writings. A1
 
BUCKLING UNDER PRESSURE
News analysis: The saga of Lani Guinier is the latest in a series of events in which the President has overpromised and then backed down under political pressure. A18
 
A nomination failed solely on the basis of a law review article. A18
 
UNLIKELY MILITARY ALLIANCE
General Colin Powell intended to retire quickly when President Clinton took office. But the two men have developed an unexpected relationship based on mutual respect. A1
 
CLINTON CLOSE ON COURT CHOICE
President Clinton said he was close to choosing a Supreme Court nominee from a list that includes Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt. A20
 
DOLE URGES UNITY IN CALIFORNIA
Senator Bob Dole has offered a message of unity to Republicans in California, urging them to focus on issues they agree on. A20
 
JURY DEADLOCKED ON LIBEL AWARD
Jeffrey Masson's libel trial against Janet Malcolm ended with the jury deadlocked on monetary damages after deciding the writer had defamed the psychoanalyst. A1
 
Writers and editors disavowed the practices disclosed at the trial. A16
 
GUNS AS THREAT TO HEALTH
Some who have been personally affected by gunshot wounds and deaths among children see gun control as a public health issue. A14
 
BAKING GEMS IN THE OVEN
Scientists at Pennsylvania State University have created a form of diamond by cooking plastic in an ordinary oven. A14
 
Ross Perot supports, but does not endorse, a Senate candidate. A14
 
The dismissal of a scientific investigator will be reviewed. A16
 
Law Page A21
 
Overwhelmed and underfinanced, the death-penalty bar reaches out.
 
At the Bar: Epithet and aftermath.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
JOBLESSNESS AMONG YOUTHS RISES
Unemployment among New York City's teen-agers rose to 40 percent in the first three months this year, city officials said yesterday. It was nearly double the rate of two years ago and the worst in the 25 years that records have been kept. A1
 
PRISONER BEATEN TO DEATH
An epileptic prisoner who died in police custody at a Manhattan hospital 10 days ago was beaten to death while he lay face down on a floor with his wrists manacled behind him, unable to breathe adequately, New York City's Chief Medical Examiner said yesterday. He ruled the death a homicide. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-32
 
Biking: Boston to Manhattan. C1
 
A day at Bergdorf's. C1
 
Comedy festival. C3
 
Gay and lesbian film festival. C16
 
For Children C26
 
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
 
Film: Garbo's grittier Anna. C1
 
"Un Coeur en Hiver." C3
 
"Guilty as Sin." C8
 
"Life With Mikey." C8
 
"The Music of Chance." C13
 
Music: Mordecai Shehori. C15
 
Sounds Around Town C29
 
Restaurants C20
 
Art: "Latin American Artists." C32
 
The Art Market C22
 
Books: Vietnam echoes. C27
 
Television: TV Weekend C30
 
Sports B7-14
 
Baseball: Leyritz backs up the swagger. B9
 
A Mets trade prospectus. B9
 
Miami schoolboy goes first in draft. B9
 
Basketball: Somber Knicks must regroup. B7
 
More gambling allegations surround Jordan. B7
 
No boycotting interviews for Barkley. B12
 
Boxing: Foreman stalks the title. B9
 
Columns: Vecsey on the Knicks. B7
 
Lipsyte on Knicks and Bulls. B12
 
TV Sports B12
 
Golf: Laoretti struggles. B11
 
Love leads in Memorial. B11
 
Hockey: Canadiens beat Kings in overtime to tie series. B13
 
Horse Racing: Cherokee Run on rail in Belmont. B7
 
Tennis: Medvedev ousts Edberg. B7
 
Obituaries A22-23
 
Norton Simon, a capitalist and a collector. A22
 
Walker O. Cain, an architect. A23
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A30-31
 
Editorials
 
The Pentagon sheds a myth.
 
The Solingen tragedy.
 
Revenge on two whistle-blowers.
 
Topics: "A confusion happened."
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Our friend Qaddafi.
 
Anthony Lewis: Anatomy of a smear.
 
William T. Coleman Jr.: Three's company: Guinier, Reagan, Bush.
 
Jeffrey E. Harris: Two bucks will finance health care for 10 million.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); GABON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); GABON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); JUDGES (73%); ARSON (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



89 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: With Aid, U.S. Seeks to Sway Ukraine on A-Arms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Reversing a strategy of using diplomatic pressure to persuade Ukraine to give up its nuclear weapons, the Clinton Administration is now trying to woo Kiev with promises of cooperation and economic support.
Les Aspin is to meet with Ukrainian officials in Kiev on Sunday, marking the first time that an American Defense Secretary will visit the capital. His visit follows one by Strobe Talbott, the United States Ambassador at Large to the former Soviet republics. 
 Administration officials say their new approach is intended to show that Washington's interest in Ukraine goes beyond nuclear weapons and that the United States is interested in a broad range of cooperation.
The strategy has become all the more important because of concerns that Ukraine may be trying to gain operational control of the nuclear weapons left on its soil by the former Soviet Union. Ukraine has 176 long-range nuclear missiles and nuclear-tipped cruise missiles. They are equipped with devices that are intended to prevent them from being fired without Moscow's approval.
According to American intelligence agencies, Ukraine could acquire operational control of the weapons in 12 to 18 months. But Russian officials say that Ukraine is already trying to establish control over the weapons and could do so in a shorter period of time.
"Do the Russians think nuclear weapons in Ukraine as a deterrent factor has passed to Ukrainian control or could in a short period?" a Pentagon official asked. "The answer is yes."
Ukraine's stance is crucial because Washington and Moscow have said that they will not begin carrying out the first and second strategic arms reduction treaties until Kiev ratifies the accords and joins the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Ukraine has not taken any of these steps.
The Administration initially sought to step up the pressure on Ukraine, rebuffing Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma's request for a meeting with President Clinton or Vice President Al Gore.
But critics complained that the strategy would backfire by making the Ukrainians feel isolated. So the Administration switched gears and sent Mr. Talbott to Kiev last month. There, he proposed regular high-level meetings between American and Ukrainian defense officials at the assistant secretary level and exchange visits by Mr. Aspin and the Ukrainian Defense Minister, Konstatin Morozov.
Mr. Talbott also proposed that Deputy Defense Secretary William J. Perry work with the Ukrainians on converting their military industry to civilian use, and that Washington not buy any highly enriched uranium from old Soviet warheads unless Moscow gave Ukraine an equitable share.
The Administration also reiterated President Bush's pledge of at least $175 million to help pay for dismantling Ukraine's nuclear weapons and said the United States would be willing to help resolve disputes between Moscow and Kiev. But the proposals fall far short of Ukrainian demands for guarantees against a Russian attack and for considerable economic aid.
Richard Armitage, who led the effort to assist the former Soviet Union in the Bush Administration, also noted that there was a large gap between the Clinton Administration's soothing message and the amount of aid that Washington is offering. Of the $1.8 billion in assistance pledged to the former Soviet Union in Tokyo, only $300 million can be used for non-Russian states.
Recent statements by Ukraine have further clouded an already confused picture. Foreign Minister Anatoly Zlenko has urged Parliament to ratify the strategic arms accords. But Reuters quoted legislators as saying Prime Minister Kuchma had told a closed-door parliamentary meeting that Ukraine should declare itself a nuclear state and temporarily keep part of the former Soviet nuclear arsenal.
A Defense Department official said Washington did not regard reports of Mr. Kuchma's statement as a definitive expression of policy by Ukraine and would view any departure by Kiev from their pledges as serious breach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); TRENDS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASPIN, LES (SEC) BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



90 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of President Clinton's Announcement

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Following is President Clinton's announcement that he was withdrawing the nomination of Lani Guinier as assistant attorney general for civil rights, and excerpts from a brief exchange with reporters, as transcribed by News Transcripts Inc., a private transcription service.
It is with deep regret that I am announcing tonight the withdrawal of the nomination of Lani Guinier to be assistant attorney general for civil rights. 
 Earlier this evening, I met with Ms. Guinier to talk through the issues that prompted my decision. I told her that had I known all along the intense controversy this nomination would inspire, I would not have asked her to undergo the ordeal; and I am sorry that she has suffered as much as she has.
At the time of the nomination, I had not read her writings. In retrospect, I wish I had. Today, as a matter of fairness to her, I read some of them again in good detail. They clearly lend themselves to interpretations that do not represent the views that I expressed on civil rights during my campaign, and views that I hold very dearly, even though there is much in them with which I agree.
I have to tell you that had I read them before I nominated her, I would not have done so.
Now I want to make it clear that that is not to say that I agree with all the attacks on her. She has been subject to a vicious series of willful distortions on many issues, including the quota issue. And that has made this decision all the more difficult.
The Lani Guinier I know is a person of high integrity, great intellect, strong character and a superb civil rights record. That's why I nominated her. I agree with civil rights leaders and members of the Congressional Black Caucus that she is a wonderful lawyer. And I want all of you to know that if this nomination could be fought out on her character or her record as a civil rights lawyer, I would stay with it to the end if we didn't get but one or two votes in the Senate.
It is not the fear of defeat that has prompted this decision. It is the certainty that the battle would be carried on a ground that I could not defend. The dilemma with which I have struggled, basically, comes down to this: Should we have proceeded with a confirmation battle that would give her a more ample opportunity to clarify her views but would guarantee a bloody and divisive conflict over civil rights based on ideas that I, as President, could not defend?
Because the controversy over her academic writings includes mischaracterizations, this battle unfortunately has already polarized our country. My campaign for the Presidency was based on trying to unite Americans on the basis of race, opportunity and responsibility, the idea that we could all work together to reach common solutions. And I regret very much the bitterness and the divisiveness which has occurred already.
I am well aware that this withdrawal will upset many people in this country who believe in Lani and had hoped that she might be confirmed. I can only pledge to them that I will continue to work, as I have for nearly 20 years, for the cause of civil rights and that I want an Administration second to none in its dedication to civil rights.
I will be consulting promptly with the Attorney General and with other members of the Senate and House committees and with civil rights leaders about a replacement for Lani. I hope to have an announcement in the next few days.
In the meantime, I want to again say I take full responsibility for what has happened here. I want to express my sorrow about what has happened to Lani Guinier and to say again I think that she is one of the ablest civil rights lawyers I have ever known. I wish this battle could be fought over that rather than ideas that I myself cannot embrace.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 Q. Mr. President, Attorney General Reno has been a staunch defender of Ms. Guinier. Did she urge you to keep her on, or is she fully on board with your decision to abandon this nomination?
A. I believe she is. I would urge you to talk to her about that.
Q. What part did your friendship -- yours and Mrs. Clinton's with Ms. Guinier -- play in your decision to nominate her and perhaps in your decision or your neglect of her record at the time that you did nominate her?
A. Well, Hillary played no role in this nomination or this decision, and so deserves no blame or credit for it.
But the fact that I had known her since law school and had actually seen her in action as a civil rights practitioner played a very large role in my desire to nominate her. That is, I thought it would be not only interesting but positive to have, for the first time, someone who had been a career civil rights lawyer head that division.
And, frankly, I think the fact that I had known her and cared about her and admired her probably contributed to the way this thing has been handled in kind of a drawn-out fashion. And it may be that the adequacy or the inadequacy of the briefings I received about this issue is partly based on the assumption that I must have known everything she'd written about since I knew her as a lawyer. I think that's probably true.
Q. Mr. President, there's a perception among some of your critics among the Black Caucus that your move to the center and your desire to have conservative Democratic votes in the Senate for your economic plan and your health plan to come played a large role in this. . . .
A. I would say this is about my center, not about the political center. I will say again, I would gladly fight this nomination to the last moment if nobody wanted to vote for her, if it were on the grounds that I could defend.
If somebody said, you know, she sued the state of Arkansas, and she sued all these other people, and she came out for remedies in her law practice that weren't right, and she ran over this group and that group, I would say, "Fine, let's fight this thing out. You know, I know that. I have personal knowledge of that. You are wrong." And if everybody in the Senate disagreed with me, I would stay with it to the bitter end.
The problem is that this battle will be waged based on her academic writings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton speaking at a news conference where he withdrew the nomination of Lani Guinier. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CIVIL RIGHTS TRANSCRIPTS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GUINIER, LANI BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



91 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Dole Waves G.O.P. Flag in California

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 3

 BODY:
He has tempered his criticism of President Clinton with words of encouragement. He has held his fire when asked about the President's wife. But he has allowed himself a sly haircut joke or two.
On a three-day fund-raising and morale-boosting tour of California, Bob Dole, the Senate minority leader, has offered the balm of professionalism to a shaken state Republican Party, urging members to focus on the issues that unite rather than divide them. 
 As Mr. Clinton conducts a campaign for passage in the Senate of his economic package, and two weeks after his own visit to California, Senator Dole has been carrying the Republican standard, touting the virtues of Congressional gridlock.
 
Warns of Higher Taxes
 "You'd better hope for a little bit of gridlock from time to time or you're going to have higher taxes to pay," Mr. Dole said at a luncheon with 600 Republicans at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in San Francisco on Wednesday.
On Tuesday, Mr. Dole was in San Diego, where he warned that taxes had to be cut and spending reduced if the President's economic proposals are to win Senate approval. Today he traveled to Los Angeles, where he was to meet with former President Ronald Reagan and tape an appearance on the NBC "Tonight" show.
Dodging questions about his Presidential ambitions, Mr. Dole, who will be 70 years old next month, said, "I'm going to meet with Reagan and see if he thinks I'm too young to run."
At meeting after meeting, Mr. Dole has told Republicans to believe in the party and has offered everything from advice on grass-roots organizing to catchwords for campaigns ahead.
 
Using the 'L' Word
 "Keep in mind that President Clinton is the most liberal President in American history, and keep in mind that this is the biggest tax increase in American history," the Senator told his San Francisco audience, as if to say there is no way they can fail to defeat him.
The San Francisco luncheon was billed as the largest Republican gathering since President George Bush was defeated last November, and Mr. Dole's assertion that the party had a strong and bright future was received with eager gratitude.
"I came away with a good feeling that the Republican Party really is alive," said Greg Soares, a small-business man who traveled to the luncheon by chartered bus with a group of 50 party workers from Sonoma County.
"I was very disappointed that the party was written off in this state last November, very disappointed," he continued. "But now because of what Clinton is doing, that's bringing a lot of people out to see what we can do. What we need is the right leadership. We need to know where the leadership is taking us."
California, the nation's most populous state, provided 54 electoral votes to the winning candidate last November, and Mr. Clinton won overwhelmingly. He received more than 4.8 million votes, to 3.3 million for Mr. Bush and 2.1 million for Ross Perot, the independent candidate. The Republicans effectively conceded the state weeks before the election to use their campaign resources elsewhere.
 
'We Have Different Beliefs'
 Mr. Dole's message was that the Republican Party must stand for something more than simply opposition to a Democratic President. And in his remarks, he seemed to be following his own dictum that as a member of the opposition party, "you sort of get to pick your shots."
"We are going to build our party because we have different beliefs, not just because we don't like President Clinton," Mr. Dole said. "Nobody should leave here with the impression that we are somehow trying to embarrass President Clinton, that every time he stands up we oppose him. That's not the way we are going to rebuild the Republican Party."
But he said, "If we don't stand up and fight this now, how can we go out to the American people and say there's a fundamental difference in our party?"
Offering one definition of the party's philosophy, he said, to the applause of his San Francisco audience, "People who are going out and working ought to be able to keep what they earn and not pay it out in higher taxes and higher taxes and higher taxes."
Nevertheless, he said of Mr. Clinton: "I think he's smart. I think he's able. I think he's got time to turn this around."
 
Some Tentative Support
 Moreover, Mr. Dole offered support for Mr. Clinton's major programs if the President moves closer to the center of the political spectrum.
At a news conference in San Francisco Mr. Dole also declined to criticize Hillary Rodham Clinton as she tries to overhaul the health-care system. "She is a very capable woman," he said. "She understands the subject matter. I might not agree with her, but she certainly knows her subject."
But no matter how statesmanlike his approach, the Senator made certain to sprinkle the words "taxes" and "spending" throughout his remarks.
"Our message to President Clinton is to change your policy," he said, "and stop talking about taxes and taxes and taxes and spending and spending and spending."
 
Meeting Potential Candidates
 And his remarks were filled with rabbit punches, to the joy of his audiences, about sore points like Mr. Clinton's $200 haircut on the runway at Los Angeles International Airport. "I didn't come out here to get a haircut, either," Mr. Dole said in San Diego.
The Senator's tour of California included meetings with potential candidates as well as with Gov. Pete Wilson, who is struggling with his own low approval ratings and facing a new budget crisis.
One fund-raising dinner was held for State Attorney General Dan Lundgren, who said of the Republican Party: "Sometimes defeat requires you to look inside and see what you've done wrong. We have tasted defeat and it's sour, and we don't want to do it again."
Rick Oltman, a state party official who attended the San Francisco luncheon, said: "Obviously, with Clinton so far down in the polls, this is a good time to ask for Republicans to rally round and spend their money. Bob Dole is here to help us rebuild our grass-roots organizations, and to explain to us again what our party is all about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Our message to President Clinton is to change your policy and stop talking about taxes and taxes and taxes and spending and spending and spending," said Senator Bob Dole, who is on a three-day tour of California. He headed into a news conference yesterday at the Santa Monica airport. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: H (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); APPROVALS (66%); HISTORY (62%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



92 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and Powell Discover That They Need Each Other

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT with THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
It was during the transition, and President George Bush, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were sitting around the Oval Office with some aides, musing about Bill Clinton and the merry band of baby boomers about to storm the White House.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney were teasing General Powell with the ease of friends who had been through wars together, one participant in the meeting recalls. "Well, Colin, you're going to have to deal with these guys now," Mr. Bush said. "Not for long," General Powell replied with raised eyebrows as the others let out a hearty laugh.
 
Matter of Mutual Survival
 Indeed, when Bill Clinton took office, General Powell already had one eye on the exit, considering retirement even earlier than his currently planned departure in September. Since then, though, the two men have developed an intriguing relationship, one that neither of them could have expected. 
 The relationship began as a matter of mutual survival, it remains a matter of mutual survival, but it has also evolved into one of mutual respect.
Mr. Clinton has needed General Powell's credibility to help buttress his own shaky standing as Commander in Chief. That fact was underscored during the Memorial Day ceremony at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial on Monday, when General Powell performed the political equivalent of falling on a grenade for his President, smothering with his own presence some of the angry dissent from Vietnam veterans by effusively introducing Mr. Clinton to the crowd.
Similarly, General Powell has needed Mr. Clinton's cooperation to preserve a military institution to which he is almost mystically devoted and which in his view can flourish only if he can moderate the President's impulses to shrink the armed forces, to allow homosexuals to serve and to intervene in thorny areas like Bosnia.
 
Likes and Respects Clinton
 But General Powell's relationship with his new boss has moved beyond institutional needs. To his own apparent surprise, the general who describes himself as the nation's senior active-duty Vietnam veteran has actually come to like and respect the nation's senior active-duty draft avoider. In his Pentagon office, the general keeps a recent birthday present from the President, an inscribed, silver-framed photograph of himself, Mr. Clinton and Defense Secretary Les Aspin.
General Powell has taken to describing Mr. Clinton to other generals as an intellectual whose sense of American history precludes his doing anything that would really hurt the military.
In an interview today, General Powell said of Mr. Clinton: "He has a historical perspective. He keeps the total picture in mind." But, the general added, their discussions of that history have largely steered clear of their Vietnam-era experiences except "in passing."
Despite General Powell's insistence that he and Mr. Clinton instantly "hit it off," his friends say the general has privately struggled to balance his loyalties to a young new Presidentagainst his commitment to the 1.8-million-member armed forces.
At times in the early weeks of the Clinton Presidency, the general and his fellow Chiefs appeared on the verge of insubordination, and it quickly became clear that Mr. Clinton was not about to take them on.
Mr. Clinton's advisers say the President has discovered how much he needs and values General Powell's advice and experience. General Powell's views were central in reeling Mr. Clinton back from his campaign-bred inclination to intervene in Bosnia.
 
Budget Clash
 But, at the same time, Mr. Clinton's economic plans require him to slash the military budget to help pay for everything from the deficit to health care to aid for Russia. Mr. Powell's budget is in many ways a purse for Clintonomics, and the President has struggled with how far and fast he can dip into it without straining an already uncertain relationship with the military.
It has not been easy. Speaking of the Clinton team, a friend of the President observed: "This is a group of people who have no feeling for the culture of the military. Bill Clinton probably knew more gay people than military people before he came to Washington."
The two men met only last fall, but the seeds of their relationship were planted 24 years ago. In the summer of 1969, Colin Powell was a young Army major finishing his second tour in Vietnam. Mr. Clinton was a few months from helping to organize antiwar demonstrations in London and Washington in the fall.
It was this contrast that forged the real backdrop, and the mutual wariness, of their first meeting, which occurred at the Hay-Adams Hotel here last Nov. 19, two weeks after Mr. Clinton had been elected President.
The private meeting, in an eighth-floor corner suite overlooking the White House, lasted an hour and 45 minutes, three-quarters of an hour longer than scheduled.
"From the very beginning they were friendly, but careful," said a top Clinton adviser who attended the meeting. "Each, for different reasons, knew that they had better get along, but we were not clear how it was going to work out. Over the weeks, each did things that gained the other's trust."
The honeymoon soon hit the rocks, though, over an issue to which the White House badly misjudged the military's reaction: the President's desire to lift the ban on homosexuals serving openly in the armed forces.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff had believed that the President would consult them before making any final decision and were furious to learn from a news article that the Administration would seek their opinions only on the means of carrying out Mr. Clinton's decision, not on the ban itself.
General Powell was angry and offended over newspaper editorials that challenged his loyalty to the Commander in Chief, prompting him to redouble his efforts to reverse the impression.
But precisely at the moment when he was trying to close the obvious gap between himself and the President over the ban on homosexuals, an even more serious breach threatened to open on the question of military intervention in Bosnia, to which General Powell was not hiding his opposition.
A Powell-Clinton confrontation on Bosnia was avoided, though, in part because the politically savvy general forged a tacit alliance with another opponent of military intervention, Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and because Mr. Clinton himself, worried about taking on the military over another issue and growing increasingly aware of domestic opposition to involvement in Bosnia, began backing away.
A senior White House official, indirectly confirming General Powell's influence, put it delicately, "There has not been a decision on Bosnia that Colin opposed."
While the result was fine from General Powell's point of view, the route to that result was a little disturbing to him.
 
Selling Clinton to Military
 "One thing Powell is still uneasy about is Clinton's tendency to publicly think out loud before finalizing what he thinks he is going to do," one friend of both men said. "Every word Powell says in public is well considered, and he thinks that should be the same with a President, especially if it involves a potential use of force."
Together with Secretary Aspin, General Powell urged the President to mix it up with troops. Mr. Clinton has taken the advice, visiting the Pentagon, delivering the commencement address at West Point, flying out to the aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt and even going out to the Marine base at Quantico, Va., on Wednesday to present trophies to the champions of the annual golf tournament there.
In selling Mr. Clinton to a skeptical military, General Powell's argument has been that although the President may never have served, he understands the place of the military in American life and that the success of his own foreign policy will depend ultimately on his ability to project power abroad when need be.
On Monday, General Powell put his own credibility with the military community on the line for Mr. Clinton, escorting him to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, where the general drew a much bigger ovation than did his Commander in Chief. And when it came time to speak, he pulled out all the stops.
After citing "a pressing need to move forward together as a nation" in healing the wounds of Vietnam, General Powell went on, "And therefore, my dear friends, at this wall of honor, as the senior Vietnam veteran on active duty and as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, I want to welcome and introduce to you the Commander in Chief of the armed forces of the United States, our President, President Bill Clinton."
General Powell said today that as he and Mr. Clinton were driving to the memorial together, "he didn't know what I was going to say, and I didn't know what he was going to say."
Afterward, as they were walking away, Anthony Lake, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, thanked General Powell for what he had done that balmy Washington afternoon.
"It was an important moment for the President," General Powell said today, praising Mr. Clinton for the appearance at the memorial. "It was not only the correct and right thing to do, it was really the only thing to do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HOMOSEXUALITY ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VETERANS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HISTORY (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



93 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Babbitt a Candidate for High Court

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FREDERICK, Md., June 3

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that "we're close" to announcing a choice for a Supreme Court seat, and White House officials said the short list for that nomination now included Bruce Babbitt, the Interior Secretary.
Presidential aides said that although Mr. Clinton might yet select a sitting judge to replace Justice Byron R. White, who will retire this month, he wanted a candidate with whom he is close and comfortable, as he is with Mr. Babbitt. 
 Roy Neel, Mr. Clinton's deputy chief of staff, said the President was "still looking at a number of strong candidates." Asked about Mr. Babbitt, whose status as a potential nominee for the seat was first reported today by The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Neel said only, "Certainly Bruce Babbitt has been a great Secretary of the Interior."
But other White House officials confirmed that the President was considering Mr. Babbitt, a 54-year-old graduate of Harvard Law School who became Attorney General of Arizona and who later, as Governor, appointed Sandra Day O'Connor, now a Supreme Court Justice, to the Arizona bench.
 
Riley Still a Possibility
 Another Cabinet official with whom Mr. Clinton has a particularly easy relationship is Education Secretary Richard W. Riley, and he too has been under consideration to succeed Justice White, even though he has told the White House that he is not interested in joining the Court. White House officials noted today that both Mr. Babbitt and Mr. Riley were respected moderates who had already endured Senate confirmation hearings to win their Cabinet posts.
But the officials said Judge Stephen G. Breyer of Boston, who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, was still high on the list of possible nominees, although Judge Jon O. Newman of Hartford, who sits in the Second Circuit, appears to have slipped somewhat.
Asked today whether he would announce his choice this week, Mr. Clinton said: "I never set the time until I'm ready, but we're close. We've done a lot of work."
 
A Pitch on Interest Rates
 The President tried to keep public attention on his economic program by traveling to a subdivision being built in this city in the distant Washington suburbs, where he toured a home under construction and said low interest rates were central to the nation's economic recovery.
The setting, a cul de sac of duplexes in the $135,000 range where he spoke to an audience made up largely of young parents and their children, was clearly chosen to demonstrate that he had not forgotten the middle class.
In an apparent appeal to the Federal Reserve Board, which has been considering raising interest rates because of signs of inflation, Mr. Clinton said the "key to this whole thing" was to keep interest rates down. "The critical thing," he said, "is interest rates."
Back at the White House, rumors flew over how the senior staff would be reorganized after David R. Gergen officially joins the staff next week as counselor to the President. Mr. Gergen, who will oversee the communications staff, met informally with aides at the White House today.
White House officials said they expected Mr. Gergen to bring someone in to handle day-to-day press operations and possibly conduct the briefings for reporters. One person being mentioned is Kathryn A. Bushkin, an editor at U.S. News & World Report who worked with Mr. Gergen there. She said today, however: "I've talked to Dave about what his plans are, but I'm staying where I am. They seem to have no plans for me."
Dee Dee Myers, the press secretary, said she was awaiting word on whether she would take over the daily briefing responsibilities, which she had shared with George Stephanopoulos, who is moving from communications director to become a senior adviser to the President.
Mr. Gergen, meanwhile, said he spent time with Ross Perot, a continual critic of Mr. Clinton, in Bermuda over the Memorial Day weekend. "Ross Perot was quite charming and expressed pleasure with my new job," Mr. Gergen told The Washington Times. Mr. Gergen, who talked on and off with Mr. Perot during last year's campaign but turned down an offer to work for him, said he had taken a ride on the Texas billionaire's speedboat, and he called their meeting "serendipity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CHILDREN (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BABBITT, BRUCE (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); JON O NEWMAN (79%); JONATHAN J JUDGE (59%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



94 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: On My Min;
Our Friend Qaddafi

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
For a while, many Americans asked themselves a sensible and healthy question every time they walked aboard a passenger plane -- is this another Pan Am 103?
The question was sensible because terrorists can do again what they did on Dec. 21, 1988 -- bring down a planeload of 259 people. And it was healthy, because as long as Americans asked it, there was a chance that terrorism could be stopped permanently. 
 Only one way exists to do that -- to make terrorist nations pay a price. These countries are terrorists' sponsors and paymasters before the crime and their safe havens after it.
The terrorist gangs are no more the sole criminals than was the ladder into the window of the Lindbergh baby -- somebody had to put them in place.
The West finally said that two Libyans did it. That is another Middle East fairy tale, a gem.
Intelligence agents who follow the case believe Iran supplied the money, Syria contributed its live-in Palestinian terrorists and the job was handed off to Libyans when the heat was on.
But let's go along with the fairy tale for a moment: a couple of Libyans managed to get their bomb on board first while, as the evidence shows, the Syrians were planning to do exactly the same thing.
So? So the West and the U.N. said that by Jiminy they would force Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to turn the two over. Some trade sanctions were imposed, fierce talk talked.
So? So the two great Libyan masterminds are safe at home. Americans' fear of flying diminishes -- with our memory we don't even worry about bombs in skyscraper garages anymore.
The powers that be, or were, refuse to order the total oil embargo that might wipe the smirk off the colonel's face. Nothing surprising about that; the West usually finds a political or economic reason to stop pursuing terrorists. But three things happened in the past few days that made it a little harder to forget Pan Am 103.
One was the Memorial Day weekend. I thought a lot about a new kind of war casualty: civilians killed by state terrorism. That was sad to think of but sadder still was that since I travel a lot, I can see myself among the victims whenever I get on a plane.
Then I spoke to the mother of a young woman aboard that plane. Her voice was as sad as I remembered it was soon after the plane blew up, her pursuit of the guilty as exhausting.
Then the happy colonel happened. This time he managed to keep a straight face as he slavered us with unctuous contempt. The man now gives interviews saying how much he wants to be our friend. The man shipped pilgrims to Israel, where they remembered to say oh, yes, Zionism must be destroyed.
Then Moshe Shahal took place. This specimen is a Labor politician now Israel's Police Minister. He said Libya was "an Arab state we have nothing against."
Hear? Nothing -- not the Libyan terrorist raids on the shores of Israel, not Pan Am, not the killers the colonel dispatches all over the world, not a thing.
Apparently that is not the position of the Israeli Government under which Moshe Shahal and his mouth serve. I prefer Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin's summation of Libya: a "leper state." But the Government could make all victims of terrorism rest easier if it removed Mr. Shahal's political head.
Even if the two Libyan patsies are turned over, they will not blow the whole plot, not with their families hostage in Libya. And the colonel will not ever surrender the use of terrorism -- he was born joined to it at the brain.
But President Clinton -- he could do what candidate Clinton promised the families of the victims: to get to and tell the truth of the bombing of Pan Am 103. Then he could carry out the rest of his promise -- to expose and punish those responsible, the agents and the nations that gave them the ladders.
In 1986 President Reagan stopped Qaddafi's terrorist adventures for a couple of years when he bombed Libya as payment for the terrorist bombing of a Berlin bar used by U.S. servicemen.
The oil embargo might have deeper impact, threatening the whole Libyan economy. At least the colonel would not be smirking so much.
That would not mean anything to the dead. But it might be of some solace to the families of terrorism's victims, past and future.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (71%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (71%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS TERRORISM (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); AIRLINES (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); INTERVIEWS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (53%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL) TZIPORA LIVNI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



95 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Abandons His Nominee For Rights Post Amid Opposition

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
President Clinton tonight withdrew his nomination of Lani Guinier to be the new civil rights chief in the Justice Department, saying that after belatedly reading her legal writings he decided he could not defend many of her views on bolstering the political power of blacks.
Mr. Clinton, who met with Ms. Guinier for nearly two hours at the White House before the announcement, conceded that he would not have nominated Ms. Guinier if he had read her academic papers before he sent her name to the Senate. 
 "In retrospect," he said, appearing subdued and drawn, "I wish I had."
Mr. Clinton said the decision to withdraw the nomination of Ms. Guinier, whom he and his wife, Hillary, have known from their days together at Yale Law School, was one of the most difficult of his life.
 
Political Embarrassment
 It was also a deep political embarrassment for Mr. Clinton and one that may cost him dearly in support from women's and civil rights groups, an important portion of his constituency. Leaders of these groups had spent much of the day trying to put pressure on Mr. Clinton to stick with the Guinier nomination, saying that to do otherwise would show weakness and lack of principle.
The President and Ms. Guinier were joined by Attorney General Janet Reno for most of the meeting.
A spokesman for Ms. Reno said after Mr. Clinton's announcement that although the Attorney General thought Ms. Guinier's writings were vivid and controversial, she nonetheless thought that she would have made an excellent civil rights chief.
"The Attorney General had read a considerable portion of her writings and was aware of their provocative nature," said Carl Stern, the Justice Department spokesman. "But she emphasized that she was chosen not for her writings but for her talent and experience as one of the country's foremost civil rights litigators."
In abandoning the nomination in the face of mounting opposition from the Senate over Ms. Guinier's writings about race, Mr. Clinton had to acknowledge that he had not read the articles until weeks after they had become a public issue and the controversy had grown impossible to ignore.
The Guinier episode is the third time in the Administration's young life that that Mr. Clinton has had to back away from the choice of a woman for a senior post at the Justice Department.
 
Fight to the End
 In response to a question, Mr. Clinton said that his wife played no role in either the selection of Ms. Guinier for the post or the decision to withdraw the nomination. White House officials earlier credited Mrs. Clinton with selecting Ms. Guinier.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged that Ms. Guinier had fought until the end to be able to appear before Senate Judiciary Committee to explain her views. He said she was surprised to learn that Mr. Clinton felt misgivings about her writings.
"They clearly lend themselves to interpretations that do not represent the views that I expressed on civil rights during my campaign and views that I hold very dearly, even though there is much in them which I agree," he said.
Mr. Clinton said the decision had nothing to do with a much-publicized recent move to the political center. "I would say, this is about my center, not the political center."
"I would gladly fight this nomination to the last moment if nobody wanted to vote for her if it were on grounds I could defend," he said. "The problem is that this battle will be waged based on her academic writings and I cannot fight a battle that I know is divisive, that is uphill that is distracting to the country if I do not believe in the ground of the battle."
Pressed for details on how he made his decision, Mr. Clinton said Ms. Guinier's analysis of the Voting Rights Act in a University of Michigan law review article seemed to advocate proportional representation, a position that he called "anti-democratic and very difficult to defend."
After President Clinton's announcement, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said he was deeply disappointed.
"If President Clinton and Senate Democrats had stood by Lani as President Bush and the Republicans stood by Clarence Thomas, she would be confirmed," The Associated Press reported Mr. Jackson as saying. "There was this capitulation. It was unfair. She was never able to face her accusers or face the public."
The executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Ben Chavis, blamed the Senate for failing to study her qualifications.
"What is the problem?" Mr. Chavis said. "The problem is race. It is a litmus test for America. I want to place the blame where it belongs. I think that the Senate Democrats don't have the stomach to stand up to those right-wing Republicans."
Earlier in the day several of Ms. Guinier's supporters repeated her claim that simple fairness demanded that she get a chance to defend her ideas before the Senate.
Some members of the Congressional Black Caucus, which is made up of 39 Representatives and one Senator, threatened to desert the President on legislative initiatives if he did not stand with them on Ms. Guinier.
 
'Dramatic Fallout' Predicted
 Mr. Mfume said that a retreat on the Guinier nomination would have "dramatic fallout in the black caucus, among progressive groups, among women's groups and among individuals in the nation who believe everybody ought to have a day in court."
The Guinier nomination was a cascading political problem for Mr. Clinton since he nominated her to be Assistant Attorney General for civil rights on April 29.
At issue were the scholarly writings of Ms. Guinier, a 43-year-old law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, in which she has argued that majority rule is often insufficient to provide blacks with a fair share of political power. She has proposed a variety of voting schemes to enhance the power of black voters and black lawmakers.
Ms. Guinier's allies rose up with renewed vigor after she appeared with the reluctant permission of the White House on the ABC News program "Nightline" on Wednesday night. By that time, Administration officials said, Mr. Clinton had become convinced that the nomination would have to be dropped because of mounting opposition in the Senate and because of his effort to shed issues that have become obstacles to his effort to press his economic program.
 
Increasing the Pressure
 But while she tried to make the case for her views on the program, she also increased the pressure on Mr. Clinton by pleading repeatedly for an opportunity to make her case before the Senate Judiciary Committee. She insisted that the chance to appear before the committee was an issue of elementary American fairness.
That notion that she should have an opportunity to discuss her views before the committee became a rallying cry for many of her supporters today. Many repeated a comparison she had made to the fight over the failed nomination of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court in 1987. Mr. Bork, then a Federal appellate court judge, was defeated after hearings in which his conservative theories and academic writings became the center of a heated debate.
But Democratic senators and White House officials had been deeply reluctant to go forward with a hearing in which the prospects of her winning confirmation were always dim. Moreover, such a hearing would have focused on affirmative action and race-based quotas, two notions Democrats in the Senate and the White House would like to avoid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lani Guinier arriving yesterday at the White House. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Kweisi Mfume, head of the Congressional Black Caucus, expressed his support early in the day for Ms. Guinier while Representative Craig Washington of Texas sorted his notes at the news conference.; Dr. Mary Francis Berry, chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, speaking out in favor of Lani Guinier yesterday before the President withdrew her nomination as civil rights chief at the Justice Department. She was joined by other women's rights supporters. (Photographs by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (59%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (59%); COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CIVIL RIGHTS; BLACKS (IN US) CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); LITIGATION (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



96 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Job Losses Cripple the Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"New Jersey Slump: Go-Go Suburbs Went" (front page, May 20) deals extensively with the symptoms, but relegates the cause to one startling statistic buried deep in the article -- that New Jersey "has lost 200,000 jobs since 1989, and 130,000 of the losses were in manufacturing." 
 The plight of New Jersey is also the plight of the United States economy. We have lost more than three million manufacturing jobs since 1979, and manufacturing's share of total employment has fallen from 23.4 percent in 1979 to 16.6 percent last March. Manufacturing jobs in New Jersey are now outnumbered by Government jobs, service sector jobs and the wholesale-retail sector, but the last two pay substantially less than manufacturing and do not compensate for the economic shortfall in lost manufacturing jobs.
Our valuable manufacturing jobs have been systematically exported, particularly to the Far East, as our manufacturing industries have been devastated by the drastic influx of imports. In 1991 and 1992, 12 out of 21 manufacturing industries suffered trade deficits, but none as large as our textile and apparel deficit of $29.2 billion -- 35 percent of the total United States trade deficit.
Many pundits indicate that the service sector is the key to our economic future. We have added 22 million service jobs in the last two decades only to see our standard of living decline in that period. We must pay more attention to the importance of manufacturing jobs to our economic health, in New Jersey and the nation.
A study just released by the Economic Policy Institute, "Employment Multipliers in the United States Economy," found that the average manufacturing job generates four and a half times as many secondary jobs as the average retail job, and almost three times as many jobs as the personal and business service sector. The report states that manufacturing creates an average of 221 additional jobs in supplier industries for every 100 manufacturing jobs. That is almost four times the 58 supplier jobs per 100 jobs in personal and business services and more than seven times the figure for retail trade.
The report also notes the relatively higher wages paid to manufacturing workers. For instance, to offset the loss of 100 jobs in apparel manufacturing, 158 new retail jobs are needed.
Based on March 1993 textile and apparel sector employment of 1.683 million, that industry is supporting 1.5 million additional jobs at direct suppliers, plus 230,000 Government jobs at the local, state and national levels. When the wages of textile and apparel industry and direct supplier workers are spent, 1.4 million more jobs are supported. In other words, the welfare of 4.8 million workers is at stake because of textile and apparel employment. Factor in the multiplier effect for all other manufacturing sectors, and you begin to understand how crucial it is to keep manufacturing jobs inside our borders.
Manufacturing is a national asset and should be treated as such, before it is too late.
 
ROBERT E. SWIFT
West Chester, Pa., May 21, 1993
 
The writer is executive director of the Crafted With Pride in U.S.A. Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); TEXTILES (87%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); TEXTILE MFG (76%); WHOLESALERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: SWIFT, ROBERT E

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



97 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Kurds and Christians Live in Harmony

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Christian Sects in Kurdish Lands Dwindle" (letter, May 24), Alastair Bruton claims that the numbers of Christians living in the Kurdish area in the north of Iraq and southeast of Turkey have been reduced from 25,000 to 200 or 300 "because the Kurds told them they had no future in a land the Kurds would soon control." Mr. Bruton concludes by appealing for the linkage of "safeguards" to Western aid earmarked for the peoples of Kurdistan-Iraq because otherwise the West will be facilitating "ethnic cleansing" there.
Throughout this century, Muslim Kurds and Christian Assyrians and Chaldeans in Kurdistan-Iraq have enjoyed good and cooperative relations. In the 1930's, for example, the Kurds did not retaliate against Christians who displaced them, in collaboration with British colonialists, from the oil-rich area of Kirkuk. More recently, some Christians have joined Kurdish political parties.
In the 1980's, many Christians left the Kurdish area for Baghdad or destinations abroad for economic reasons. Iraqi Kurds, themselves victims of chemical warfare and an operation that, it is estimated, claimed the lives of 180,000 Kurds, were hardly in a position to force any other people out of the region.
Some Christians fled to Turkey in the April 1991 refugee exodus and refused to return for economic reasons or because they had no homes to which to return. This is documented in reports released by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and in an April 1992 investigation report by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.
In the last year, in preparation for the May 1992 election, the Kurdistan Front set aside 5 seats (out of 105) for Christians in the new Kurdish Parliament. This quota assured the representation of Chaldeans and other Christian groups. Because the two major parties hold 50 seats each, the Christian members of the Kurdish Parliament will cast the deciding votes should a stalemate arise.
As the Iraqi military again looms as an ominous presence on the horizon of Kurdistan-Iraq, the fledgling democracy deserves and needs Western humanitarian aid as long as its leaders apply the law equitably to all people.
 
SALAH AZIZ
President, Badlisy Center
for Kurdish Studies
Tallahassee, Fla., May 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; TURKEY IRAQ (95%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: AZIZ, SALAH; BRUTON, ALASTAIR

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



98 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Let's Introduce Some Common Sense Into Our Drug Policies;
Ever-Present Threat

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A. M. Rosenthal is to be commended for his efforts to keep the drug crisis deeply imbedded in the hearts and minds of every American ("Dismantling the War," column, May 18). 
 Many of us who deal with drugs from a law enforcement perspective join him in questioning this Administration's lethargic reaction to one of this country's most serious problems.
I hope that the arrests of two individuals in the execution-style murder of the Latino journalist Manuel de Dios Unanue in Queens and the emergence of sobering evidence linking Colombian drug lords to the hit will ignite the fire of both the American people and the politicians in Washington. The murder is undeniable proof that the drug situation is very much at the crisis level. More, it shows the far-reaching power of the drug cartels to exact violence in this country.
Mr. Rosenthal is right to call for Federal commitment to a drug policy incorporating foreign crop reduction, interdiction, law enforcement, education and treatment. I agree that these areas should be financed equitably.
While I am aware that this country faces harsh fiscal realities, we cannot afford to forget that the side effects of the drug crisis threaten families, neighborhoods, the labor market, the economy: in sum, the way we live.
 
ROBERT H. SILBERING
Special Narcotics Prosecutor
for the City of New York
New York, May 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (72%); CARTELS (68%); 

PERSON: SILBERING, ROBERT H; ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



99 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Musty Academic Speculation or Blueprint for Political Action?

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

 BODY:
Historically, most law review articles are neither little noted nor long remembered, except by the professors who wrote them and the committees who control their futures.
But twice in six years, Presidential nominations have foundered over esoteric academic writings. The articles written by Lani Guinier about the Voting Rights Act caused her political death. In the failed nomination of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court, they were merely a contributing factor. 
 Ms. Guinier's nomination to head the Justice Department's civil rights division was doomed by several ambitious and ambiguous studies she has written in the past few years, for such staid and limited-circulation journals as the law reviews of the universities of Michigan and Virginia.
Six years ago, when Judge Bork of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia was nominated to the High Court by President Ronald Reagan, liberal critics harped on an article he had written in 1971 for the Indiana University Law Review, in which he listed a number of important Supreme Court decisions, notably concerning privacy and the First Amendment, that he deemed incorrect.
Mr. Bork's conservative defenders asserted that his thoughts were either taken out of context, or dated, or deliberatively tentative, and that to fault him for them was unfair and chilled free-wheeling academic debate.
 
Difficult to Read
 Mr. Bork lost anyway. Similar complaints were emanating from the other end of the political spectrum over Ms. Guinier. She has been both more prolific and prolix than Mr. Bork. While Mr. Bork was luminously clear, it is not always apparent what Ms. Guinier was trying to say, whether her sentiments were her own or those of others, whether they were tentative or set in stone, whether they were theoretical or practical, sweeping or tailored for a few egregious cases.
Her thesis -- that minorities are underrepresented in decision-making, and that the Voting Rights Act authorizes creative means to enhance their influence -- is simple enough.
But as Stuart Taylor Jr., a columnist for the weekly Washington publication Legal Times, wrote in the current issue, Ms. Guinier's articles "are, alas, so murky that it takes some effort to extract her intended meaning from the fog of verbiage." Interviewed Wednesday night on the ABC News program "Nightline," she conceded that this was at least partly true.
She acknowledged that the articles were not academic musings, as some of her defenders have said. She nonetheless sought to distance herself from them, calling them political theory that had no place in a public debate and disputing their connection to her character. "Most important, I think, is not what I wrote but who I am," she said.
Mr. Taylor is surely one of the few people in Washington or anywhere else actually to wade through the 102-page "No Two Seats: The Elusive Quest for Political Equality" in the November 1991 in Virginia Law Review, or the 76-page "The Triumph of Tokenism: The Voting Rights Act and the Theory of Black Electoral Success," which appeared in the Michigan Law Review eight months earlier. Instead, almost everyone is relying on reconstructions by journalists and partisans, injecting further distortions into the process.
 
Reduced to the Absurd
 Thus manhandled and oversimplified, said Cass Sunstein of the University of Chicago Law School, even Adam Smith would sound silly. "Law review articles are part of the record, but sound bite versions of law review articles have big dangers," he said. "Something can be so simplified as to seem crazy. This was the unfortunate thing that happened to Judge Bork, and it's happening to her."
From the hundreds of pages of Ms. Guinier's academic writing, critics have tended to focus on a few points. They have faulted her for the notion that when it comes to measuring compliance with the Voting Rights Act, only what she described as "authentic" blacks should count. Under this formulation of her views, blacks elected with large white votes, like Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia and perhaps all black Republicans, would not.
A principal defender of Ms. Guinier, James J. Coleman Jr. of Duke Law School, took issue with this criticism, maintaining that her critics had misconstrued a footnote in one of her articles. In fact, he said, she was paraphrasing the views of others.
Critics also say that in her quest to guarantee minorities equality in political outcomes instead of merely proportional representation or fair procedures, she has posited a brave new anti-majoritarian world. It would include cum ulative voting, in which voters in districts with several legislators would be allowed to vote several times for a single candidate rather than spread their votes among them; requirements that measures pass by "supermajorities," which would require white legislators to bargain with their minority counterparts, and a veto for minorities on crucial issues.
In her "Nightline" interview, Ms. Guinier spoke of "protecting the rights of minorities where you have a local majority that may be acting in a prejudiced way to rig or corrupt or abuse the democratic process."
Ms. Guinier herself disputed the sweep of her proposed remedies during her "Nightline" appearance. "I am not talking about revamping American democracy," she said. "I am not interested in going into all state or local governments. I'm talking about remedies for extreme instances."
Perhaps because such articles are their primary means of communicating ideas, several law professors said in interviews that they were appropriately crucial to any evaluation of Ms. Guinier, Mr. Bork, or any legal academic seeking high office. Indeed, the unlikelihood that anyone with political power would read them make them far more credible than careful testimony before a Senate committee.
But by the same token, these professors say, it is unfair to view such articles as as blueprints for action.
Stephen Carter of Yale Law School, a supporter of Ms. Guinier, noted how, before President Reagan nominated him to the Federal Court of Appeals in Chicago, Judge Richard Posner had written one law review article offering an economic analysis of selling babies and another on the economic efficiencies of slavery. It would have been wrong, he said, to have faulted Judge Posner for what were unorthodox but serious academic endeavors.
"You can play this game on the left or right and it's a tragedy," Mr. Carter said. "It makes it hard for legal scholars who have serious ambitions for public service to take chances in their work. Conservatives were right in 1987 to object to this practice, and they should stick to the same principles in 1993."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the first paragraph of an article yesterday about Lani Guinier's legal articles paraphrased Lincoln's Gettysburg Address incorrectly. The passage should have read, "Historically, most law review articles are little noted nor long remembered, except by professors who wrote them and the committees who control their futures."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US) AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SUPREME COURT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID; GUINIER, LANI; BORK, ROBERT H RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



100 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Some Friends Fret as Clinton Is Slow in Choosing Envoys

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Early this year, the White House asked two veteran Democrats whether they would like to be ambassador to Japan. Both of them said they would.
But President Clinton has not gotten around to making a choice. And now the two old friends and allies, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale and Richard C. Holbrooke, a seasoned Asia hand, find themselves reluctant warriors in an unseemly contest that pits political eminence against diplomatic experience. 
 When Mr. Clinton arrives in Tokyo next month for his first official visit, he will be greeted by Ambassador Michael H. Armacost, a senior career Foreign Service officer who is anxious to retire and has told Japanese and American friends that he plans to leave the country right after the President does.
 
37 Empty Embassies
 The diplomatic sweepstakes for Tokyo is the most visible illustration of what might be called the empty embassy syndrome.
Five months into the Administration, there are no ambassadors or even nominees for 37 of the 164 embassies around the world -- including India, Australia, Belgium, Israel, Italy, Korea, Morocco, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and Somalia -- largely because Mr. Clinton has yet to make his choices.
Slowing down the process, Administration officials say, is Mr. Clinton's preoccupation with his economic plan, his emphasis on including large numbers of women and minorities among his appointees, and his insistence on approving every choice himself.
But the large number of vacancies is less unusual than the fact that so many are from important countries. With no ambassador or deputy chosen for Israel, the State Department pulled former Ambassador William Brown out of retirement and dispatched him to Tel Aviv for six months as acting Ambassador. Similarly, in the Philippines, Donald Westmore, a career Foreign Service officer, was sent as a temporary Ambassador until Mr. Clinton makes his choice.
In Germany and Singapore, the ambassadors are lame duck political appointees from the Bush Administration who were allowed to stay on for personal reasons but whose successors have not been named. Twenty-nine other ambassadors are scheduled to leave their posts between now and the end of the year.
Foreign officials have begun to grouse that the conduct of diplomacy would be smoother if they had an ambassador to talk to. When Mr. Clinton telephoned Prime Minister Carlo Ciampi of Italy last month to congratulate him on his new job and talk about Bosnia policy, Mr. Ciampi bluntly asked him when a new ambassador would arrive, Italian officials said.
And although Sweden's Foreign Minister, Margaretha af Ugglas, said she was not at all miffed that Secretary of State Warren Christopher did not directly consult her on the recent plan to create safe havens in Bosnia, she complained -- ever so diplomatically -- about the absence of an American ambassador in Sweden for almost a year.
"It's quite natural that Mr. Christopher did not meet with us on Bosnia," Ms. Ugglas said in an interview last week. "But there are other ways to consult. One good way is to have ambassadors, and we and other countries are anxious to welcome them."
 
White House Rejects Criticism
 The White House takes exception to the criticism that it is moving slowly. "We're moving through the process and the pace at which we are moving is the appropriate pace," said Bruce R. Lindsey, Director of Presidental Personnel, in an interview. "We'll certainly have ambassadors to all those countries."
In fact, Mr. Lindsey said he thinks the embassies are functioning perfectly well without ambassadors. "Each of those embassies has career people there fully capable of performing all necessary functions," he said. "I don't think it creates a problem whatsoever."
Other senior Administration officials argue that in terms of sheer numbers, the Clinton Administration is ahead of the Bush Administration and the first Reagan Administration in getting its ambassadorial appointments through the tortuous nominating, security and confirmation process.
The Senate has so far confirmed 12 ambassadors since Mr. Clinton took office, compared with 9 at a comparable time in 1989 and 8 in 1980.
 
Waiting on Paperwork
 The White House has chosen another 23 candidates, including those to Ireland and the Vatican, but the paperwork has not been completed and the F.B.I. is still conducting its security checks, so the Senate Foreign Relations Committee cannot schedule confirmation hearings.
What the numbers do not show, however, is that the Clinton Administration has left many of the world's most important posts empty, and that there seems little rush to fill them.
Mr. Clinton, who has been criticized by his own Cabinet for having filled less than a quarter of the top-level positions throughout the Government, canceled a meeting with the Secretary of State last week to choose names from the President's list of friends and campaign contributors and Mr. Christopher's list of career Foreign Service officers.
Complicating matters is that Mr. Clinton wants to reward a number of his closest friends and most important contributors with embassies, according to senior Administration officials.
At the top of his list, according to officials familiar with his thinking, are Tom Loftus, former speaker of the House in Wisconsin, who is the front runner for Norway; Swanee Hunt, a Democratic fundraiser from Denver; M. Larry Lawrence, a San Diego hotelier and Democractic fundraiser; Edward Elson, a millionaire Atlanta businessman; Thomas L. Siebert, an Annapolis businessman who went to Georgetown Law School with Mr. Clinton; and Jeanette Hyde, a Democratic fundraiser who has expressed an interest in Greece, Cyprus, Luxembourg and Switzerland. Ms. Hyde has been quoted by a newspaper in Raleigh, N.C., as saying, "I would take some little island."
Mr. Christopher, meanwhile, following State Department tradition, has submitted a list of career Foreign Service officers for every empty ambassadorial post. He is said by aides to be particularly eager to reward those senior officials who are wandering the corridors at State since they lost their posts with the change in Administrations.
Among them are Herman J. Cohen, the former Assistant Secretary for African Affairs; Edward J. Perkins, the former chief American representative at the United Nations; and Thomas M. T. Niles, the former Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs.
"Obviously there are some senior Foreign Service officers who need certain status embassies for their careers to continue and we're aware of that and are trying to factor it in," said one senior official.
By far the highest-stakes contest is who will replace Michael H. Armacost in Tokyo. Mr. Clinton has said that "there is no more important relationship for the United States than our alliance with Japan."
Favoring the appointment of Mr. Holbrooke, the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian Affairs in the Carter Administration and currently managing director of Lehman Brothers in New York, are Vice President Al Gore; Tony Lake, the National Security Adviser; Defense Secretary Les Aspin; Samuel R. Berger, the Deputy National Security Adviser; and Peter Tarnoff, the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, according to senior officials familiar with their thinking.
These officials argue that Mr. Holbrooke has had three decades of experience in Asia, a deep understanding of trade issues and the capability of delivering tough messages to the Japanese. But he has publicly stated tht the United States will have to withdraw its military presence from Japan, which alarms many Japanese officials.
In Mr. Mondale's corner are Mickey Kantor, the Administration's trade representative, and senior political operatives at the White House, who believe that the former Vice President would bring prominence and prestige to the post and send a powerful signal to the Japanese about just how important Mr. Clinton views the bilateral relationship.
Some of these officials say Mr. Mondale deserves to be rewarded after he expressed interest in the post of chief American representative to the United Nations, but lost out to Madeleine K. Albright. Mr. Mondale was then offered Moscow, and after initially indicating interest, he withdrew his name, apparently because he did not want to play second fiddle to Strobe Talbott, Mr. Christopher's Ambassador-at-Large in the former Soviet Union.
Sitting on the fence is Mr. Christopher, who is said by aides to be comfortable with either Mr. Mondale or Mr. Holbrooke. But the Secretary of State has managed to leave the impression with friends of each candidate that he is supporting each of them.
As for Mr. Mondale and Mr. Holbrooke, both of them said -- most diplomatically -- that they would have to decline comment.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about slowness in the selection of American ambassadors referred incorrectly to a statement by Richard C. Holbrooke, a former Assistant Secretary of State. He wrote in Foreign Affairs in 1991 that an American troop withdrawal from East Asia "in the long run" was "probably inevitable." Mr. Holbrooke did not say he favored such a step.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); SWEDEN (92%); MOROCCO (79%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (73%); BELGIUM (55%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE SICOME SA (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); SWEDEN (92%); MOROCCO (79%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (73%); BELGIUM (55%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (76%); SWEEPSTAKES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; MONDALE, WALTER F; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD; ARMACOST, MICHAEL H (AMB); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



101 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Rose 15% in May

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 3

 BODY:
United States sales of cars and light trucks rose 15 percent in May, compared with May 1992, the leading auto makers reported today.
The big gain, which included sales of domestic and imported vehicles, came as the Ford Motor Company said it had record truck sales for the month. In addition, the Chrysler Corporation reported its best overall May sales in five years. 
 In the last 10 days of the month, sales of cars and light trucks built in North America rose 9.8 percent, extending a string of increases and suggesting that automotive demand may be stronger than predicted by broad economic indicators.
The rise in the final reporting period followed an 18.4 percent gain in the middle of May and a 30.2 percent surge in the month's first 10 days.
 
Modest Gains for G.M.
 The General Motors Corporation also reported higher May sales, although more modest than Ford's and Chrysler's. It attributed its gains to a conservative pricing strategy, under which it avoided price increases to build market share. [Page D4.]
The nation's chain store retailers fared less well in May, however, reporting that sales in the month were generally disappointing. [Page D3.]
Auto executives and analysts attributed the robust sales to low interest rates for financing, strong demand for low-cost lease deals and the need to replace aged vehicles.
Tom Webb, chief economist of the National Automobile Dealers Association, theorized that low interest rates might be motivating savers to cash in certificates of deposit and buy vehicles.
"New-vehicle sales in April and May were higher than household-income data alone would suggest," he said, providing evidence that consumers were using their savings to buy vehicles.
 
 
Several Buying Trends
 Car dealers reported that the proportion of light-truck sales to total automotive sales continued to rise. They also noted a shift in consumer interest from low-mileage used cars to new cars. And they said domestic brands continued to gain against foreign nameplates.
For the month, the Big Three captured 73.9 percent of vehicle sales, up from 72.6 percent in May 1992. Japanese auto makers, including those that build vehicles in North American plants, accounted for 22.4 percent of total sales, down from 22.8 percent a year earlier. All other importers accounted for 3.7 percent of sales, down from 4.6 percent in May 1992.
Sales of cars built in North America -- which are considered domestic models -- rose 7.8 percent in late May, to 256,055. Sales of domestic light trucks, including mini-vans and sport-utility vehicles, rose 12.7 percent, to 178,355. Overall vehicle sales for the May 21-31 period totaled 434,410.
For all of May, sales of all vehicles, domestic and imported, rose 15 percent from a year earlier, to 1,314,864. Car sales were 807,778, up 11.1 percent; light-truck sales were 507,086, up 21.7 percent.
General Motors' car sales for the month totaled 291,090, up 5.9 percent from May 1992. The total included 283,175 domestically produced vehicles. Light-truck sales were 167,920, up 18.9 percent, including 164,205 domestically produced vehicles.
Ford car sales for the month rose 12.8 percent to 172,728, including 168,053 domestically produced models. Light-truck sales were 159,067, up 26.9 percent from a year earlier.
Chrysler posted car sales of 83,625 in May, a gain of 43 percent, including 76,652 domestically built models. Chrysler's light-truck sales were 120,848, up 21.5 percent, including 120,674 domestically built models.
 The Honda Motor Company's May car sales dipped two-tenths of a percent to 65,510, including 35,322 cars produced in North America. The Toyota Motor Corporation sold 73,298 cars in May, a gain of 11.8 percent, including 36,365 domestically produced cars. Toyota's light-truck sales were 26,123, a gain of 15.1 percent.
The Nissan Motor Company sold 44,420 cars in May, a gain of 23.7 percent. Nissan's overall light-truck sales were 16,986, a gain of 47.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MINIVANS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (65%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



102 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: A Legal Thicket Amid the Redwoods

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EUREKA, Calif.

 BODY:
In a cluttered office overflowing with filing boxes and legal briefs, William H. Bertain is standing fast in his quixotic campaign to wrest back control of the Pacific Lumber Company, which was acquired in 1986 by Charles E. Hurwitz, a Houston financier.
A child of the lush redwood forests in this fog-shrouded country, Mr. Bertain has dedicated the last seven years to a legal fight that few believe can be won, returning the company to the Murphy family that had managed it since the turn of the century.
 
 
Seeking to Undo a Buyout
 Mr. Hurwitz's Maxxam Inc. bought Pacific Lumber for about $900 million in a buyout financed largely with junk bonds handled by Drexel Burnham Lambert, and three members of the Murphy family have retained Mr. Bertain to have the buyout undone, asserting that shareholders were defrauded. Maxxam also faces a barrage of lawsuits from employees, shareholders and environmentalists seeking to halt the harvesting of old-growth timber. 
 Despite demoralizing odds, Mr. Bertain says he carries on the crusade because outside investors -- whom he calls "corporados" -- are threatening to destroy a way of life.
"This was the crown jewel of the North American timber industry," he said. "I was just stunned for four months after the takeover, but then I set out by committing to do everything that was legal and moral to stop this."
Mr. Bertain's campaign has set him at odds with John Campbell, the president of Pacific Lumber and a 24-year veteran of the company, the world's largest holder of virgin redwood forests. "He's barking up the wrong tree," Mr. Campbell said in a telephone interview. "He's a zealot and he has his emotions and his ego involved."
Pacific Lumber is not practicing cut-and-run forestry, the Australian-born lumberman insists. Countering critics who charge that Mr. Hurwitz had to increase the company's cutting rate to pay nearly $800 million of debt incurred when it was taken over, Mr. Campbell says the company has shown that it intends to be a positive long-term economic force here in Humboldt County, on the Northern California coast nearly 300 miles north of San Francisco.
 
 
At Center of Regional Conflicts
 Seven years after Mr. Hurwitz's takeover, the dispute shows no signs of ending soon. Indeed, Pacific Lumber has increasingly found itself at the center of economic and environmental conflicts boiling over in the Pacific Northwest. In April, both sides of the Pacific Lumber hostilities were prominently represented at President Clinton's meeting in Portland, Ore., on forest use.
In this logging town of 27,000, the controversy has turned neighbor against neighbor and left the community bitterly divided over whether its future lies in timber or in diversifying into recreation and tourism.
And Pacific Lumber's unwillingness to compromise on environmental issues has made new enemies in this town, which once saw itself as having a one-crop economy.
"For a long time, the timber industry has controlled this area," said Phil Jurick, a Eureka developer. "They've had far too much influence."
For many residents of this community, the Pacific Lumber takeover has come to epitomize the social and environmental costs of the junk bond era of the 1980's. But beyond being vilified as a corporate raider, Mr. Hurwitz has never been charged with violating any laws, and in the short run at least, his company has increased employment in the region.
 Mr. Bertain's supporters include members of labor unions, community leaders and environmentalists. Nevertheless, it has not been a comfortable time for the bearded and outspoken 46-year-old lawyer, the youngest of 10 children who grew up in nearby Scotia, the company town for Pacific Lumber, where his family had run a small laundry since 1920.
Today Mr. Bertain -- who spends most of his time and much of his money on the legal battle with Mr. Hurwitz -- is more than a half-million dollars in debt. At times he has been unable to meet his house payments, and his health has deterioriated.
The dispute may soon move to a national stage. Legislation is expected to be introduced in Congress this month to clear the way for the Government to acquire more than 30,000 acres of Pacific Lumber's old-growth timber in an area known as the Headwaters. While company officials say that the fair market value is likely to exceed $400 million, Congressional staff members and environmentalists argue that because environmental restrictions prohibit logging there, the actual value may be much less.
Environmentalists have used Pacific Lumber's logging practices as the rallying point in their battle to save the remaining stands of California's old-growth redwood forests.
 "This is in-your-face forestry," said Joshua Kaufman, a Humboldt County paleontologist who helped form an environmental coalition after he saw Pacific Lumber trucks rolling up and down the road on which he lives. The group has brought suits against the company and hopes to force it to sell its remaining old-growth lands for a new national park.
Mr. Bertain maintains that returning Pacific Lumber to its original owners would be a perfect compromise between the environmentalists and the logging industry. Under its previous owners, the company cut about 2 percent of the trees on its land annually -- no more than the forest's annual growth rate.
In his lawsuits against the Pacific Lumber takeover, Mr. Bertain has asserted that Mr. Hurwitz conspired with other investors to defraud the company's shareholders when he acquired the company. To date, those suits have generally been rejected by Federal courts, but more than a dozen shareholder, employee and environmental suits remain to be settled.
Few people give the small-town lawyer much chance of returning the company to its former owners. But Mr. Bertain is optimistic that he will prevail in his $1 billion-plus claim against the dealings of Drexel Burnham Lambert and its fallen junk bond specialist, Michael R. Milken.
 
 
Words Unspoken
 Mr. Bertain and Mr. Hurwitz have testified at the same Congressional hearing, but they have never spoken to each other. Mr. Hurwitz, a Texan who rarely speaks to the press, refused to comment on Mr. Bertain.
Unfazed by the various lawsuits against his holdings, Mr. Hurwitz has forged ahead, moving to reduce the debt load of Pacific Lumber. He recently refinanced Pacific Lumber's $510 million debt and split the company into three concerns, leading many industry executives to say -- and even some environmentalists to concede -- that the Houston financier had pulled off a business coup.
"They got a phenomenal decrease in the cost of capital," said Craig Gilmore, a financial analyst at Gilmore & Company in Carlsbad, Calif.
In a daring stroke, Mr. Hurwitz shifted Pacific Lumber's timber assets to two new companies, Scotia Pacific and Salmon Creek, cutting back on the company's short-term debt, financed by junk bonds, and replacing it with bonds backed by 179,000 acres of redwood and Douglas fir timberland.
 
 
Many Lawsuits
 Nonetheless, Mr. Hurwitz still faces imposing legal challenges:
*Pacific Lumber and Maxxam are named in lawsuits in both Humboldt County and New York City by former Pacific Lumber shareholders seeking damages of more than $1 billion.
*The logging company faces at least 10 lawsuits brought by environmentalists who charge that its accelerated logging endangers species like the spotted owl and the marbled murrelet and damages forest watersheds.
*In 1991, the United States Department of Labor filed a civil suit against Pacific Lumber in response to the company's 1986 termination of its pension plan, which it replaced with annuities from Executive Life, an insurance company that Mr. Hurwitz controlled and whose parent later went bankrupt.
*In May 1992, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation indicated that it was moving toward suing United Financial Group, stemming from the 1988 collapse of the United Savings Association. Mr. Hurwitz once owned 24 percent of the failed savings and loan, which purchased $1.4 billion worth of Drexel's junk bonds in exchange for $1.8 billion in financing for the acquisitions of Pacific Lumber and Kaiser Aluminum.
*In April, Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, introduced legislation that would impose a 75 percent tax on the value of old-growth redwood timber that is used as security for bonds.
Through it all, Mr. Bertain has shown no signs of caving in.
"He's a bulldog of a human being," said David Harris, an author and researcher who is working on a book about the corporate takeover. "Nobody else would be where he is today, but he's still after these guys."
 The article also referred incompletely to Pacific Lumber's stance on issues that have angered environmentalists. The company said it had compromised on some matters.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about a legal battle for control of the Pacific Lumber Company misstated the relationship between Charles E. Hurwitz, chairman of Pacific's parent, Maxxam Inc., and the Executive Life Insurance Company, a California insurer that supplied annuities for Pacific Lumber's pension plan. Mr. Hurwitz did not control Executive Life.
The article also omitted attribution for allegations that the United Savings Association bought junk bonds from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in return for Drexel's financing of acquisitions. That assertion was made in a lawsuit by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation against Michael R. Milken, Drexel's junk-bond specialist. Because Mr. Milken and Drexel Burnham settled the suit for $1.3 billion, no court ruled on the F.D.I.C. allegations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles E. Hurwitz, the financier whose company, Maxxam Inc., bought Pacific Lumber in 1986 for about $900 million in a buyout financed largely with junk bonds. (Michael Mella)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MXM (AMEX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS113310 LOGGING (94%); SIC2411 LOGGING (94%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC LUMBER CO; MAXXAM INC; DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC HUMBOLDT REDWOOD CO LLC (94%); MAXXAM INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC LUMBER CO; MAXXAM INC; DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); EUREKA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CORPORATE BONDS LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); LITIGATION (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); 

PERSON: HURWITZ, CHARLES E; BERTAIN, WILLIAM H; MURPHY FAMILY BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993



103 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-6
 
U.N. BACKS FORCE AT ENCLAVES
The U.N. Security Council voted 13 to 0 to authorize the U.S. and its allies to use air strikes against Serbian forces besieging six Muslim enclaves in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The resolution also authorized the deployment of as many as 10,000 troops to protect the enclaves. 1
A weeklong Serb assault on Gorazde has killed a reported 300 people. 6
News analysis: Serbian leaders are acting with increased confidence. 6
 
U.S. FREEZES HAITIANS' ASSETS
The U.S. imposed sanctions on supporters of the military-backed Government in Haiti, including the freezing of assets of 83 people and 35 institutions. 2
 
SIHANOUK BLAMES HIS SON
Norodom Sihanouk attributed the abrupt collapse of a coalition Government in Cambodia to his son, who leads the opposition political party that won elections for a National Assembly. The U.N. cited the likelihood of a new coalition. 3
 
U.S. FAILS TO SWAY NORTH KOREA
U.S. officials failed again to persuade North Korea to drop its plans to withdraw from a treaty intended to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, but the two countries are to resume talks. 3
 
GERMANY ARRESTS 3 IN BOMBING
The German police are reported to have arrested three men in the firebombing that killed two Turkish women and three Turkish girls last week in western Germany. The police say they believe that the bombing was motivated by the men's anger at being thrown out of a bar. 4
 
'I'M STAYING,' JOHN MAJOR SAYS
With the lowest popularity rating in Britain since the 1930's, the Prime Minister presented an aggressive defense of his Government, telling an audience of Conservative Party women: "I am fit. I am well. I am here -- and I'm staying." 5
 
IN POLAND, READ ALL ABOUT IT
Since the fall of Communism in Poland four years ago, newspapers and magazines have blossomed, appealing to virtually every conceivable interest -- from fashion to business to soft porn. 4
 
Guatemala's Vice President has reportedly halted his effort to rule. 2
 
National 7-10
 
SURGE ON JOBS GROWTH
Job growth picked up smartly in May as the unemployment rate fell to 6.9 percent, the lowest in 18 months. The figures, the first comprehensive look at the May economy, were stronger than expected and inspired rethinking of the prospects for the balance of the year. 1
 
CLINTON RUMINATES AT DINNER
After announcing that he was withdrawing his nomination of Lani Guinier, President Clinton joined dinner guests and explained his agonizing decision. 1
 
EX-NOMINEE SPEAKS HER MIND
Lani Guinier remained defiant, saying the President did not understand her theories and that he should have given her a chance to explain them before the Senate committee. 8
 
VOTING ALTERNATIVE IN EFFECT
The alternative voting plans Lani Guinier advocated in her writings are being used in many localities, particularly in the South. 9
The President knew there would be trouble, but ignored the signs. 9
 
SEEKING CAUSES FOR OUTBREAK
Communities in and around the Navajo reservation in the Four Corners region of New Mexico and Arizona are struggling to explain the flu-like illness that has killed 11 people. 1
 
CAMPUS LESBIANS STEP INTO LIGHT
A new generation of lesbians, buoyed by the convergence of the feminist and gay rights movements, are asserting themselves on college campuses around the country. 7
 
LIBEL JURY FOCUSED ON FACTS
The jury in the libel case against a New Yorker writer veered away from character and professional questions, concentrating only on the quotations at issue.7
 
NEW TRIALS FOR GANG MEMBERS
After officials worked for 20 years to stop one of Chicago's gangs, charges of prosecutors' misconduct prompted a Federal judge to grant three of the gang members new trials. 7
 
GIRLS MAY BE ALLOWED AT ALTAR
Religion notes: Contrary to Vatican policy, girls serve at the altars of American Catholic churches. An end to the ban is now being studied. 27
 
Federal narcotics officials arrested a Puerto Rico drug smuggler. 10
 
Metro Digest 23
 
A POLITICAL TEST OF WILLS
News analysis: Mayor Dinkins and Gov. Cuomo have squared off in a test of wills over New York City's plea for state help to balance its budget that is more than the usual fiscal endgame, with money and politics fueling the fight. 1
 
A NEW PATH, AGAIN, FOR CUNY
The Chancellor of the City University of New York has abandoned a plan to eliminate or consolidate scores of majors at many colleges in the 21-campus system. She proposed instead that she be given more power over program offerings. 1
 
Business Digest 37
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-16
A reunited Velvet Underground. 11
New snag for folk-art museum. 16
A Broadway box office record. 11
A gay actor's dilemma. 11
Theater: "Sheila's Day." 14
Music: Cliburn contest news. 13
Dance: The Joyce's birthday party. 14
 
Sports 29-34
Basketball: Bulls eliminate Knicks. 29
Jordan disputes claim in new book. 29
 
Obituaries 28
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
Editorials
The city budget: still gimmicky.
The Lani Guinier mess.
Stemming slaughter in the streets.
Broadway blues.
Letters
Russell Baker: The rain in Spain stays . . .
Al From: Guinier had to go. Now.
Flora Lewis: Clinton worries Europe.
Wakako Hironaka: Through rosy glasses, darkly.
Chronicle 22
Bridge 14
Crossword 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HAITI (92%); POLAND (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

COMPANY: ALL ABOUT SPORTS (53%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HAITI (92%); POLAND (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ARRESTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (61%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



104 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: Serbs Feel Invincible;
Having Out-Bluffed the West, They May Now Press Their Bosnia Drive

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, June 4

 BODY:
Serbian leaders here and in Bosnia are now acting with increasing confidence, sensing that they have out-bluffed Europe, Russia and the United States, and no longer see any major obstacles to their drive for hegemony in former Yugoslavia.
This is the conclusion of foreign diplomats here and a number of Serbs, who say recent events have made it clear that the major powers have no stomach for direct military intervention in the republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 By this view, the United Nations proposal to carve out "safe havens" to protect Muslim civilians under siege by the Bosnian Serbs is largely camouflage to hide the hard truth: that an international consensus for strong action to roll back the Bosnian Serbs, who now control 70 percent of the republic's territory, simply does not exist.
Many believe that Serbian nationalism is not appeased by the gains in Bosnia but is feeding on them. They predict more war ahead, not less. The extremists who command pillaging armies of irregulars in Bosnia are not likely to stop with the ground they have won so far. The temptation to press ahead to create a "greater Serbia," uniting the two million Serbs living outside the borders of Serbia proper with the six million inside Serbia, seems more irresistible than ever.
 
Doubts About Enclaves
 If the six enclaves set up for the Muslims in Bosnia are quickly and thoroughly patrolled by international troops empowered to repel any aggression, then perhaps the Serbs would settle temporarily for a standoff. They might well use the lull to consolidate their control of areas outside the enclaves through "ethnic cleansing," as they did after a cease-fire halted the fighting with Croatia two years ago.
But if the enclaves are simply concentrations of Muslims without effective protection and with little means of survival or economic viability, then they could turn into what a diplomat called "magnets for attracting people so that eventually mass deportations or death will occur."
The threats earlier from Washington to lift the embargo on arms for the Bosnian Muslim fighters and to use air strikes to smash Serbian artillery have had a negative effect now that the Bosnian Serbs have remained defiant and the threats have proven empty.
A month ago, the Bosnian Serbs were feeling vulnerable, and the Serbian Government of their patron in Belgrade, President Slobodan Milosevic, was striking a compliant pose toward the West in the hope of ending the harsh economic sanctions.
Today, the Bosnian Serbs seem bathed in a glow of invincibility. And the Government here has smashed Serbia's tiny opposition movement, elevated hard-line nationalists to new influence and abrogated its pledge to place monitors on the border to prove it is not supplying the Serbian fighters.
 
Criticism of Karadzic Wanes
 It is uncertain whether Mr. Milosevic and Radovan Karadzic, the leader of the Bosnian Serbs, have patched up their differences, but certainly the orchestrated press criticism of Mr. Karadzic, whose constituents refused to go along with the international peace plan approved by Mr. Milosevic, has died down here in the capital of Serbia.
Another casualty is respect for Western resolve. "Perhaps it is true that Bosnia is the most difficult and complex problem on the planet," wrote a journalist in the outspoken opposition magazine Vreme. "It has shown that the world is led by people who are no different from our Balkan bluffers."
Essentially the militant nationalists believe that they are swaying the world to their view that the conflict is not international but a civil war and that Bosnia, with its crazy quilt of competing ethnic groups, was never a viable sovereign state to begin with.
There is also concern that the recklessness of leaders like Vojislav Seselj of the Serbian Radical Party, or Gen. Ratko Mladic, the military commander of the Bosnian Serb forces, who recently hinted at a tactic of unleashing terrorists in London and Paris, could destabilize other flash points in the remnants of former Yugoslavia.
When asked to predict events, a surprising number of diplomats, opposition politicians and independent journalists come up with the same scenario. Sooner or later, they say, Croatia and Serbia will vie for Bosnia and end up splitting it, either after fighting for it or by circumventing United Nations peace efforts and holding their own partition negotiations.
Few people doubt that if Serbia and Croatia fought over the spoils or divided them up over a table, the Muslims, who in the 1991 census made up the single largest group in Bosnia -- 44 per cent compared with 33 percent for the Serbs and 17 for the Croats -- would fare badly. At best, they might be given a slice of land somewhere in the center of the country. At worst, they would be driven out altogether.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; RUSSIA; EUROPE; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); RELIGION (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); DEPORTATION (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ARMS EMBARGOES (66%); 

PERSON: DARNTON, JOHN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



105 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: JOB GROWTH IN U.S. SURPRISINGLY HIGH WITH SURGE IN MAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
In a surprisingly upbeat economic report, Government figures showed today that job growth picked up smartly in May as the unemployment rate edged below 7 percent -- to 6.9 percent -- for the first time since late 1991.
Analysts found much to cheer in the Labor Department data, which seemed to portray an economy finally shifting into a higher gear after two years of generally weak recovery, particularly in jobs. 
 - The employment figures, the first comprehensive look at the May economy, were stronger than the most optimistic professional forecasts. Coupled with other recent encouraging data, they inspired some rethinking of prospects for the balance of the year.
 
Payroll Job Growth
 Payroll jobs, today's report showed, grew by 209,000 last month, nearly double the typical expectation and even more impressive because the gain came on top of upward revisions for March and April totaling 145,000 jobs.
The May gain lifted payroll jobs to 109.99 million, exceeding for the first time the June 1990 pre-recession peak. Put another way, it took just over two years to recover the jobs lost during a recession officially reckoned to have lasted eight months.
Construction was especially strong, rising 67,000 with the aid of better weather, continued low interest rates and backlogged demand for new homes, the department said. Business and health services also expanded employment as did local governments.
 
Gains in New Jersey
 The surge in employment was particularly evident in New Jersey, where the unemployment rate fell to 7.4 percent. This followed successive jumps that had carried the state's jobless rate to 9.1 in April, the highest for any of the 11 biggest industrial states. The unemployment rate in New York State rose to 7.5 percent, from 7 percent in April, but New York City had a decline, to 9.5 percent, from 9.8 percent. [Page 49.]
Bond prices in the credit markets slumped on the news of greater-than-expected job creation, pushing up interest rates and fueling speculation about possible monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve. [Page 37.]
The employment figures follow a string of other economic indicators that while mixed have included some moderately hopeful signs. In the last week alone, there were reports that consumers raised spending sharply in April despite flat incomes and that sales of new homes soared to their biggest gain in more than six years. Sales of cars and light trucks were reported to be 15 percent higher in May than a year earlier.
But other reports this week showed that the first-quarter economic growth rate slipped below 1 percent, and the Government's main forecasting index reversed direction in April for the fourth straight month, posting a smaller-than-expected gain.
The Clinton Administration reacted cautiously, welcoming the job growth and the easing of the unemployment rate to 6.9 percent. But officials are aware that a sustained surge in the economy could undercut an effort to revive a scaled-down version of the economic stimulus package that failed to win Congressional passage.
In addition, higher interest rates might complicate prospects for the President's budget. It calls for tax increases and spending cuts, which would tend to restrain the economy as would higher interest rates. Moreover, in the longer run the budget plan relies on low rates to help keep Government financing costs in check.
"We are encouraged," Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary, said about today's results, noting that payroll employment has now climbed by more than 200,000 for two straight months, the first time this has occurred in more than three years.
But he added, "We must remain cautious and not put too much weight on a single month's numbers."
 
Optimism From Economists
 Private analysts reacted with less guarded enthusiasm. "The economy is growing at a higher rate than the general consensus has been expecting," commented Leif H. Olsen, an investment manager and economist who operates a firm bearing his name in New Canaan, Conn. Mr. Olsen predicts that gross domestic product will rise at an annual rate of 3 1/2 percent in the quarter ending June 30, well above the gain of nine-tenths of 1 percent posted in the storm-ravaged first three months of the year.
With the construction industry pulling out of the doldrums, the private- sector workweek at its lengthiest in more than four years and even teen-age joblessness easing, the May report had only one major negative.
This was yet another hefty decline in factory jobs, which fell 39,000, to bring the cumulative loss since February to 133,000. A separate Government report today said that orders to American factories fell three-tenths of 1 percent in April, the second straight decline.
Some analysts also fretted about a rise of six-tenths of 1 percent in average hourly earnings last month, but others, citing a small decline in April, contended that wage inflation remained low.
Most analysts had anticipated a modest rebound in factory jobs and the decline was somewhat of a puzzle. In an interview, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chief economic adviser to President Clinton, advanced two competing explanations of what was occurring, calling it too soon to endorse either.
One is that American manufacturers first took steps to raise productivity, then met increased demand by expanding the hours of their existing work force: the private-sector workweek surged 24 minutes in May, to the highest level in four years, and factory hours are now the longest since 1966. This view holds that industry is now poised to hire new workers. .
The other explanation is that the overhaul of American industry has combined with new computer and other technology to change the relationship between output and jobs in factories, bringing permanently reduced work forces.
The department's survey of households posted an even larger -- though probably overstated -- increase of 857,000 jobs in May. The results of the household survey and the payroll survey tend to track each other in the longer run but month-to-month may diverge sharply. Thomas J. Plewes, an associate commissioner at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, attributed much of May's huge rise to heavy movement into and out of the labor market at the end of the school year, to self-employment of many who had lost jobs and to statistical "catch-up" following an April decline.
Before seasonal adjustment, the job gain was 1,345,000, the household survey showed.
The labor force also expanded sharply, by 790,000, so the ranks of the unemployed thinned by only a modest 67,000. While this trimmed one-tenth of a point off the jobless rate, which had stood at 7 percent for the preceding three months, only moves of at least two-tenths of a point are considered statistically significant by the department in this calculation.
Today's report also showed that the jobless rate for blacks eased to 12.9 percent in May from 13.8 percent in April while the rate for teen-agers fell a point, to 19.7. The latter rate was about half the 40 percent unemployment recorded for New York City teen-agers during the first three months of this year, the worst on record.
While there was little change in May, the number of hard-core jobless -- those out of work for 15 weeks or more -- has fallen 600,000 so far this year.
Despite the decline in factory jobs, the department's index of aggregate weekly hours surged to 124.7 last month from 123 in April, a gain that implies a sizable increase in industrial production, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



106 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Head of CUNY Drops Plan to Cut Course Offerings

BYLINE: By SAMUEL WEISS

 BODY:
The Chancellor of the City University of New York has abandoned a plan to eliminate or consolidate scores of majors at many colleges in the 21-campus system.
The action by the Chancellor, Dr. W. Ann Reynolds, came after the plan was sharply criticized by faculty members, students and legislators. In the end, the opposition proved so powerful that she was forced to scale back the proposal. 
 The debate between the Chancellor's office and several trustees on one hand, and faculty and students on the other, has involved abstract issues of governance as well as practical consequences, such as a loss of teaching jobs.
The program proposed such drastic steps as eliminating majors offered at several campuses, including philosophy at City College, history at York College and French at Brooklyn College.
Dr. Reynolds said the goal of the original plan, to save money and allow the university to strengthen its remaining programs, was still crucial.
So instead of pressing for the elimination of specific programs, she proposed instead that she be given more power to decide what programs each campus would offer, a power now held largely by each college.
Last December, Dr. Reynolds had embraced as excellent the recommendations of an advisory committee that called for the consolidation or elimination of programs with low enrollment across the university. There was an uproar on many campuses, where faculty members felt their authority was being challenged.
In the course of the debate the colleges did agree to eliminate some programs, which Dr. Reynolds hailed as a success. But they fought fiercely to protect many others that the committee had proposed to abolish, and in recent days Dr. Reynolds has circulated a new proposal that no longer focuses on specific programs.
In her new 20-page plan, which she is expected to present to members of the university board at a meeting on Monday, she calls for the chancellor to be given new powers to control and eliminate weak academic programs. Under the plan, the university would create a system of review and certification over which the chancellor would have ultimate control.
 
Fewer Credits
 The Chancellor's new plan also proposes a reduction in the number of credits a student needs to graduate from 128 to 120 for the four-year bachelor's degree and from 68 to 60 for the two-year associate degree. This would eventually compel colleges to eliminate minor course offerings such as physical education because they would not be needed.
A draft copy of the Chancellor's report was provided to The New York Times by an opponent of the new plan. Yesterday the university issued a statement saying that because the trustees had not yet had an opportunity to consider the report, the university administration "reserves comment" at this time, except to note that "the proposed policy establishes a framework to guide continuing academic planning" through existing college governance mechanisms.
The new plan met with mixed reviews from many leaders of the university faculty. Robert Picken, chairman of the University Faculty Senate, said he appreciated the fact that Dr. Reynolds had curtailed the original proposal to eliminate many programs immediately but cautioned that he had serious concerns about the Chancellor's new plan and would wait to see further details before making a comment.
 
Consolidation of Majors
 Dr. Reynolds first presented a plan to overhaul the university last December, when she released a 160-page report by an advisory committee that called for the university to consider the elimination of associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs that attracted few students and strengthen those programs where enrollment was strong.
A main feature of the original plan was that majors be consolidated across the university. For example, French, now offered as a major at six campuses, would be available only at Hunter College in Manhattan and at Queens College in Flushing. The new plan does not require such consolidations but calls on the colleges to collaborate on joint course offerings.
In her final report, Dr. Reynolds notes that the campuses have agreed to the elimination of only 45 programs in the next academic year, far less than the 200 originally suggested for possible elimination by the Chancellor's advisory committee.
Among the degree programs slated for elimination or suspension in the latest plan are a German baccalaureate at Lehman College, a baccalaureate in religion at Baruch College, a two-year associate program in medical records technology at Kingsborough Community College and a master's degree in political economy at Brooklyn College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY)

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; DEGREES, ACADEMIC COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (72%); 

PERSON: WEISS, SAMUEL; REYNOLDS, W ANN (CHANCELLOR)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



107 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: THE GUINIER BATTLE;
Clinton Tries to Cut Losses After Abandoning a Choice

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
President Clinton today set about trying to deal with the political damage from his decision to drop Lani Guinier as his choice to be the Justice Department's new civil rights chief. But she remained defiant, saying the President did not understand her theories and should have given her a chance to explain them to the Senate.
Mr. Clinton sought especially to soothe new political irritations in his relationship with members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who were among the most angered at his decision to abandon the Guinier nomination in the face of mounting Senate criticism of her proposals to increase the political power of black voters. 
 He set up a meeting next week with several black members of Congress, Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Baltimore Democrat who heads the caucus, said today. And Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore conferred this evening at the White House with several black political figures in an effort to press the President's case that he had no choice but to withdraw the nomination.
In a news conference at the Justice Department, where she had hoped to work as assistant attorney general in charge of the civil rights division, Ms. Guinier said she continued to "respect" Mr. Clinton, whom she has known since they attended Yale Law School more than 20 years ago.
But she also refused to gloss over her disagreements with the President, making it clear that she believed her situation had been woefully mishandled by the White House.
 
Comments With a Sting
 Although she had largely appreciative words for Mr. Clinton on morning television programs, Ms. Guinier's message during her news conference carried an obvious sting.
"I think that the President and many others have misinterpreted my writings," Ms. Guinier said in a voice that sometimes quavered with emotion as she stood with her husband, Nolan Bowie, a Philadelphia lawyer, and their 5-year-old son, Nicholas.
"I think he has the opportunity to be a great President," she said, "and I hope he takes advantage of that opportunity."
Ms. Guinier said she was disappointed that she did not have a chance to argue her views before the Senate. "Had I been allowed to testify in a public forum before the U.S. Senate, I believe that the Senate would also have agreed that I am the right person for this job, a job some people have said I trained for all my life," she said, adding, "I deeply regret that I shall not have the opportunity for public service in the civil rights division."
Defending her views, she said: "I have always believed in democracy and nothing I have ever written is inconsistent with that. I have always believed in one person, one vote, and nothing I have ever written is inconsistent with that.
"I am a democratic idealist," she said, "who believes that politics need not be forever seen as I win, you lose, a dynamic in which some people are permanent monopoly winners and others are permanent excluded losers.
"I hope that what has happened to my nomination does not mean that future nominees will not be allowed to explain their views as soon as any controversy arises," she said. "I hope that we are not witnessing that dawning of a new intellectual orthodoxy in which thoughtful people can no longer debate provocative ideas without denying the country their talents as public servants. "
 
Praise for Reno
 She also carefully distinguished her views of Mr. Clinton from her evident regard for, and gratitude to, Attorney General Janet Reno, who steadfastly stood by Ms. Guinier.
"I had been excited about the opportunity of working with Janet Reno," Ms. Guinier said. She said that Ms. Reno's "strength and courage" had helped her withstand the criticism of the last few weeks.
On Thursday night, Mr. Clinton announced he was withdrawing Ms. Guinier's nomination because, he said, he had finally read her writings and had found much with which he disagreed.
He said he was not withdrawing the nomination simply because he was afraid to take it forward in the face of mounting opposition in the Senate, but instead because he could not defend many of her writings.
Had he read them earlier, he said, he would not have nominated her.
White House officials who conceded that the nomination of Ms. Guinier, a 43-year-old law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, had been mishandled, said that political damage to Mr. Clinton could come from two fronts: Mr. Clinton has clearly angered leaders of civil rights and women's groups that had once supported him.
Mr. Mfume, for instance, warned Thursday that dropping Ms. Guinier would be an unprincipled act that could cost Mr. Clinton black support as he tries to promote his budget.
Today, Mr. Mfume's anger seemed unabated as he said that "some people who worked to put Bill Clinton in office, who took to heart his pledge to bring about change, to some extent feel betrayed."
The episode has also been depicted as the latest instance of a White House unable to steer a sure course. Consequently Mr. Clinton's standing as a leader, which is crucial as he struggles to enact an economic program, may have been harmed.
"I'm disappointed in the Senate and the President," said Senator Paul Wellstone, a freshman Democrat from Minnesota. "I think they bailed out and really didn't give her a chance."
He said that Mr. Clinton did not strengthen his hand with the Senate but rather showed he could be easily rolled over. It was a sentiment shared by a Republican Senator, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
"I think President Clinton has made a mistake in withdrawing the nomination of Ms. Guinier," Mr. Specter said, adding that he had urged the White House to let Ms. Guinier appear before the Senate.
"There are some fights you have to fight even if you may lose them," Senator Specter said. "I think he misreads the Senate, and this is going to do him some harm as he faces a tough battle on the budget."
Ms. Reno was reported by her aides to have at first been unenthusiastic about Ms. Guinier for the post of civil rights chief. But when the nomination began to attract widespread criticism, Ms. Reno adopted the stand-tall approach that served her well after the assault and fatal fire at the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Tex.
Ms. Reno insisted to reporters on Wednesday that she would fight to get Ms. Guinier confirmed.
George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director, said that at the meeting this afternoon, Mr. Clinton told the black politicians that he was sorry for the way the Guinier nomination had played out.
"What he said, first of all, is that we have a disagreement over principle," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. He told them, "I'm sorry about that, but that's the way it is. I hope you'll understand."
Among those attending the meeting, White House officials said, were Jewell Jackson McCabe, the founder of the National Coalition of 100 Black Women; Joseph Lowery, the director of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference; Dorothy I. Height, the president of the National Council of Negro Women; Elaine Jones, the legal director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, where Ms. Guinier used to work, and Eddie N. Williams, the director of the Center for Joint Political Studies, a black-oriented private research organization.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton after withdrawing his nomination of Lani Guinier to be the new civil rights chief. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CIVIL RIGHTS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LAWYERS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN); LEWIS, NEIL A; GUINIER, LANI BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



108 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
The unemployment rate edged below 7 percent in May, for the first time since late 1991, and Government figures showed that job growth picked up smartly. Analysts found much to cheer in the data, which seemed to portray an economy finally shifting into higher gear after two years of generally weak recovery. The report showed that payroll jobs grew by 209,000 last month, nearly double the estimates of many experts. The gain was even more impressive because it came on top of upward revisions for March and April. [Page 1.] A surprising surge in employment after three months of economic deterioration cut New Jersey's jobless rate to 7.4 percent. Elsewhere in the New York region, the data showed little change. [49.] 
 The tobacco industry and antismoking forces have renewed hostilities over industry claims that a higher excise tax on tobacco products would devastate large parts of the economy. [37.]
An advisory committee issued two resolutions raising concerns about a plan to standardize a high-technology coding system that would permit wiretaps by law-enforcement officials. [37.]
 When the head of the National Association of Manufacturers was asked to form a coalition to lobby against the Administration's energy tax, he was not optimistic. But within weeks, about 600 companies and organizations had signed on. [37.]
The F.C.C. said it would stop handling customer complaints about cable television unless it got an extra $28 million. [38.]
 
Companies
Springs Industries' offer for Fieldcrest Cannon and Amoskeag has shareholders itching for a bidding war. [37.]
California's Insurance Department has temporarily barred 247 unlicensed insurers from writing policies in the state. [39.]
 BMW named a new chairman and chief executive of its recently organized BMW (U.S.) Holding Corporation. [39.]
 A tug-of-war intensified between creditors of the Canadian and U.S. branches of the distressed Olympia & York empire. [39.]
Officials of 3Com hope to help the company's stock recover from a steep plunge. [39.]
 The new president of Daniel, Mann, Johnson & Mendenhall intends to use his expertise in hazardous-waste cleanup to gain new business for the big architectural design firm. [39.]
Pratt & Whitney said it had tentatively agreed not to move 2,300 Connecticut jobs to plants out of state. [26.]
 
Markets
The strong employment report rocked the Treasury market. Yields moved higher on everything from bills to bonds. [37.]
Most leading stock indexes moved lower in lackluster trading. The Dow industrials closed at 3,545.14, up 0.27 point. [38.]
The dollar soared against leading European currencies. [48.] Sugar futures rose sharply after Cuba told customers it could not fulfill its shipment contracts. [48.]
 
Your Money
Some policyholders are turning to medical claims agents, who are used to handling filings of insurance papers and making follow-up calls. They also know how and when to challenge insurers over a rejected claim or paltry reimbursement. [35.]
Customers may finally be ready to open their wallets, and Wall Street believes many retailers may benefit. [35.]
Some high-income people are wondering what to do about their June 15 payment of estimated taxes. Tax professionals say to ignore the politicians -- for now. [35.]
Most working Americans desperately need to increase their retirement savings, benefits consultants say. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ACM (NYSE) (81%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (81%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AECOM TECHNOLOGY CORP (81%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); PRATT & WHITNEY (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (88%); INSURANCE POLICIES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BONDS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EXCISE TAX (74%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (74%); TOBACCO MFG (74%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (64%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CURRENCIES (63%); SUGAR MARKETS (60%); WIRETAPPING (52%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



109 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Going for the Kill on the Energy Tax Plan

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
When Jerry Jasinowski, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, was asked by a large company in April to form a broad coalition to lobby against the Clinton Administration's proposed energy tax, he was not optimistic.
At the time, he had reason to worry. The Democratic Congress wanted to help the new President reduce the deficit, and the tax plan, which also promised to promote energy conservation, seemed to have a good chance of passage. 
 "We thought it was very long shot," Mr. Jasinowski said of the prospects of forming a coalition. But he and his staff drafted a letter that detailed what they saw as the tax's major drawbacks; they argued that it would add to the cost of producing goods, making American companies less competitive against foreign rivals.
To his surprise, the initial letter, which was sent to trade associations, provoked an overwhelming response. Within weeks, about 600 companies, trade groups and other organizations had signed on for a two-pronged lobbying effort. On one front, chambers of commerce and other local groups of business people would put pressure on legislators in their home districts; on the other, a swarm of lobbyists on Capitol Hill would barrage legislative staffs with information.
Many legislators listened to those campaigns, and pressed for changes that their constituents wanted. And when President Clinton was desperate for votes to get his deficit-reduction package through the House of Representatives late last month, he was receptive to horse-trading away some components of the energy tax.
The coalition, called the American Energy Alliance, has continued to grow and now includes about 1,650 organizations. About two-thirds are small businesses; other members include trade associations like the American Farm Bureau Federation and major companies like Goodyear, Gillette, Coors and Domino Sugar.
In its two months of existence, the coalition has helped to exempt several industries from at least some effects of the proposed tax. Coal, oil, aluminum and other industries -- as well as the agricultural sector -- have seen changes in the proposal, and other groups are fighting for more. Even if a tax plan survives, it may be pared down substantially from the President's proposal, which aimed to raise about $71 billion through 1998.
The first lobbying gains were made by energy industries, which used their teams to press the point that an energy tax, in any form, would be passed on to the consumer. The airline and trucking industries, as well as others that use large amounts of fuel, would in most cases adopt higher fares and rates.
The breadth and depth of the coalition, Mr. Jasinowski said, had a big impact when lobbyists began work.
"I have never seen as broad a response as on the energy tax" in 10 years of lobbying in Washington, he said, adding, "The diversity of the members was a major plus."
Not satisfied with all the changes it has already wrought, the coalition is now going for the kill. This weekend, it is sending a letter to each member of the Senate, urging rejection of an energy tax in any form.
 
A Grass-Roots Campaign
 Some coalition members, like the Citizens for a Sound Economy, a Washington group that lobbies against economic regulation, have led grass-roots efforts. The group, led by James C. Miller 3d, a former budget director for President Ronald Reagan, has a quarter of a million members who pay $15 each in annual dues.
It has organized protest rallies in several states, including one yesterday in Bismarck, N.D., where about 200 farmers, office workers and business people gathered in a hotel to hear Gov. Edward T. Schafer, a Republican, and others denounce the proposed tax.
The group is making a major effort in North Dakota because both of its Senators and its one Representative are Democrats. It has also held rallies in Oklahoma, home of Senator David L. Boren, and in Louisiana, home of Senator John B. Breaux, both of whom have been critical of the original proposal. Both Democrats are members of the Senate Finance Committee, which has a big role in determining the fate of the tax.
The Citizens for a Sound Economy has also sent out 9,500 information packets to business and political leaders and recently used phone banks to rouse opposition.
Through its local and national efforts, the coalition has helped to change the form and the impact of the proposed tax, which would be imposed according to the heat content of fuels, as measured in British thermal units.
Now, said Theodore R. Eck, the chief economist for the Amoco Corporation: "The B.T.U. tax has become like an old inner tube of a bicycle wheel. It's got so many patches in won't hold air anymore. Almost everybody has gotten an accommodation."
The first energy industry to get a major exemption was coal, in April, when it persuaded the Administration not to collect the tax at the mine but to have utilities collect it when they buy their coal.
John Grasser, the vice president of public relations for the National Coal Association, said the Treasury was convinced that it made more sense to collect the tax from the 154 utilities that use coal in large quantities. Of the one billion tons of coal produced each year, he estimated, about 80 percent is sold to utilities.
Then the utilities came to bat. They expressed their fears that utility rate regulators would not allow them to pass the tax on to consumers. In May, the industry prevailed, persuading the Administration to propose that the tax be included on utility bills.
Then the aluminum industry, a major user of electricity, won an agreement to receive a large exemption. The industry argued that because it used so much power and because demand for aluminum was relatively weak, it would be unable to push through a price increase and would be badly hurt by the tax.
The oil industry was also able to shift payment of the tax from the refineries to the terminals, where wholesalers buy various products, like gasoline. The industry argued that it was unfair to tax it for the energy used in production.
Earl Ross, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, said the support of the coalition was a big help for his industry's efforts.
"When you show 1,650 signatures of different organizations, then people begin to think twice about it," he said.
A major exemption was also granted for home heating oil, following lobbying by legislators from the Northeast. They argued that because oil would be taxed at a higher rate than natural gas, the Northeast would bear a larger burden than regions like the Midwest, where homes use more natural gas for heat.
In the meantime, the coalition's lobbying efforts continue. With all the exemptions, what is left of the energy tax plan?
Basically, it would be a tax on transportation, said Larry Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in Washington. "It's a tax on the highway user on diesel, gasoline and jet fuel," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To the surprise of many who feared that the odds were against him, Jerry Jasinowski, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, has found growing enthusiasm for his coalition against the Clinton Administration's energy tax plan. At a staff meeting, he remained alert to his schedule. (George Tames for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENERGY ALLIANCE; NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS ; AMERICAN FARM BUREAU; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; GILLETTE CO; COORS BREWING CO; DOMINO SUGAR PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ENERGY ALLIANCE; NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS ; AMERICAN FARM BUREAU; GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO; GILLETTE CO; COORS BREWING CO; DOMINO SUGAR NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; SMALL BUSINESS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LOBBYING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BREWERIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); TIRES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%); TRUCKING (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; JASINOWSKI, JERRY J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



110 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: New Details Emerge in Killing of Man in Police Custody

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Besides blows to the head and neck, a prisoner's inability to breathe while he was trussed up and left face down on a bed for more than a half hour may have been a major factor in his death while he was in police custody last week, a person familiar with the case said yesterday.
Many new details of the last hour of the prisoner's life emerged yesterday as the Manhattan District Attorney and the Police Commissioner promised thorough investigations, and civil rights advocates representing the dead man's family amplified on charges that the victim, a black man, had been beaten to death by white officers as they used racial epithets. 
 In another development, lawyers representing the wife of the dead man, Johnny Cromartie, filed a notice of claim for an $11 million lawsuit against the city, alleging his wrongful death. Mr. Cromartie, 40, of Harlem, had been arrested on a gun possession charge and was hospitalized after suffering an apparent epileptic seizure.
 
Dispute Over Circumstances
 Mr. Cromartie, an unemployed man who suffered from epilepsy and alcoholism, died at New York Downtown Hospital on May 25 under sharply disputed circumstances.
The Medical Examiner on Thursday ruled Mr. Cromartie's death a homicide, saying he died of repeated blows to the head, neck and trunk and of breathing problems after being restrained by officers for "agitated behavior consistent with delirium tremens," a symptom of alcohol withdrawal. An enlarged heart due to high blood pressure was also a factor, the coroner said.
But pending a grand jury finding, legal responsibility remained unclear. The police said necessary force had been used to restrain a violent man trying to escape. The man's mother, Laura Pruitt, and her lawyer, C. Vernon Mason, said that there had been no attempt to escape, that Mr. Cromartie was only agitated by a medical problem and that he was needlessly stomped, kicked and beaten to death.
Yesterday, Mr. Mason, the Rev. Al Sharpton, who is often critical of the police, and State Senator David A. Paterson, a Manhattan Democrat, met separately with Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. Afterward, Mr. Mason and Mr. Sharpton reiterated their allegations that Mr. Cromartie had been wrongfully killed by the police.
 
Reports of a Witness
 Mr. Sharpton said he had spoken on Wednesday to a witness, whom he refused to identify but whom he described as concerned about his personal safety. Mr. Sharpton quoted the witness as saying that there had been no attempt to escape and that Mr. Cromartie had been beaten without provocation, apprently while suffering a seizure.
Mr. Mason said the witness, a person who has not been publicly identified and whom he acknowledged he had not spoken to, was under round-the-clock police protection and had provided accounts of what happened to the district attorney and the police Internal Affairs Division.
"It's our understanding that the witness said that Mr. Cromartie was beaten to death while handcuffed on the floor, literally beaten and stomped to death," Mr. Mason said. "They repeatedly called him 'nigger' while they were beating him to death."
Mr. Sharpton also reiterated his contention that the police were trying to cover up, and he criticized the authorities for not arresting the officers involved in the incident, who have been placed on desk duty pending the outcome of the investigations.
He said he would ask United States Attorney General Janet Reno for a Federal civil rights investigation and challenged Mayor David N. Dinkins and his probable opponent, Rudolph W. Giuliani, to take stands on the case.
 
Charges About Officers
 Mr. Mason quoted Mr. Morgenthau and Mr. Kelly as having said that seven officers had been involved, not five, as originally reported by the police. At least two of the officers were black, and a white sergeant supervised the group, the police said. But Mr. Mason contended that two white officers beat Mr. Cromartie.
Mr. Sharpton said that the other officers had a duty to intervene. "All the police in the room have some type of criminal exposure to varying degrees," he said. "None are innocent."
Mr. Mason had previously suggested that the key witness in the case was one of the black police officers. But the person familiar with the case, who provided many new details of what happened in Mr. Cromartie's last hour, said yesterday that the witness was not a police officer.
It was unclear whether any hospital personnel saw the confrontation, but Mr. Mason and Mr. Sharpton said that doctors had been cleared out by the police and only "heard a lot of what was going on."
Mr. Cromartie, who was arrested in Harlem three days before his death, was taken to the hospital on May 23 after suffering an apparent seizure and was admitted to the hospital the next day after another seizure episode. He was held under constant guard in Room 409.
 
Procedure on Handcuffs
 The confrontation that led to his death began at 12:13 A.M. on May 25, just as one officer was replacing another at a change of shifts. As is the practice, the departing officer removed his handcuffs from the prisoner so his replacement's cuffs could be put on.
According to the police version, when the first officer's cuffs were removed, Mr. Cromartie tried to escape and was subdued and recuffed with the help of other officers who were summoned.
In the account of the witness who spoke to authorities, two officers kicked and beat the prisoner and used racial epithets. But the person familiar with the case said it was unclear if the violence continued after the prisoner's wrists were cuffed again.
This person also said the bruises left by the blows were not readily visible and were discovered by the medical examiner only after detailed examination below the skin.
After subduing the prisoner, the person familiar with the case said, the officers placed Mr. Cromartie face down on the bed with his wrists cuffed behind him, with a Velcro wrap around his legs and with straps over his body to hold him down.
Mr. Cromartie, who was 5 feet 9 inches tall, weighed over 230 pounds and had a large belly, was left for 30 to 45 minutes in a position that compromised his capacity to breathe, this person said. Thus, in addition to the blows he sustained, the prisoner's inability to breathe was a significant factor in his death, the person said.
While Mr. Cromartie lay trussed on the bed, the police were waiting for an Emergency Medical Service crew to take him to Bellevue Hospital Center, which has greater security for holding prisoners. The crew arrived at 1 A.M. and soon afterward pronounced the prisoner dead.
In another development, Joel B. Savit, a lawyer for Mr. Cromartie's widow, Teresa Crawford Cromartie, filed a notice of claim to alert the city of her intention to file a wrongful death suit. Mr. Savit said that Mr. Cromartie had been separated for nine years from his wife, whom he married in 1980, but that he had provided support for her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; ASSAULTS; BRUTALITY AND HARASSMENT CHARGES; FIREARMS; BLACKS (IN US) LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); EPILEPSY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); AUTOPSIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); GRAND JURY (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (75%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARRESTS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%); 

PERSON: CROMARTIE, JOHNNIE AL SHARPTON (79%); DAVID PATERSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



111 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Panel Sees Flaws in Plan For Encoding

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 4

 BODY:
A Commerce Department advisory committee issued two draft resolutions today raising "serious concerns" about a Clinton Administration plan to standardize a high-technology coding system that would permit law-enforcement officials to tap telephone calls and computer data transmissions.
The resolutions call on the Administration to hold extensive public hearings on the new technology, known as the Clipper chip, and they urge that the technology not be deployed beyond the executive branch of the Government until the public review is completed. 
 The Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board, which was established by Congress under the Computer Security Act of 1987, held two days of public hearings this week to solicit industry and public reaction to the plan, which would create a national standard for telephone and data coding.
 
A 'Master Key'
 The system would permit law-enforcement officials to create a numeric "master key" to be held in "escrow." It could be obtained only by presenting a warrant to two separate agencies that would be charged with protecting pieces of the key.
 The idea is that splitting the key would make it more difficult for Government officials to abuse its powers.
But the proposal has generated widespread criticism from technology experts, industry officials and privacy advocates who argue that it is technically flawed and that it may be abused by Government officials and others. A number of industry executives and opponents of the plan said that today's resolution was a setback for the Government.
"This is a victory for the private sector and the privacy community," said Marc Rotenberg, Washington director of the Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility, a computer industry public interest group. "The board heard a strong set of witnesses this week saying, 'Don't do it.' "
A White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said today that the Administration was comfortable with the resolution and that the Government was not rushing to put its plan into effect.
The plan calls for the use of several chips, known as Clipper and Capstone, designed by the National Security Agency to encode voice and data conversations, but it will not outlaw the use of other coding systems. This has led critics of the plan to argue that the proposed technology will not be useful in listening to people suspected of criminal activities who wish to protect their conversations.
 The advisory board says that it sees these shortcomings in the plan:
*The Administration has not made a persuasive argument that a significant problem exists.
*Because it is a hardware-based solution, the Clipper/Capstone proposal does not address the needs of the software industry.
*The economic implications of the proposal have not been examined.
*Congress, as well as the Administration, should play a role in the conduct and approval of the review.
 Some industry officials have suggested that the Clipper proposal may backfire on the chip's designer, the National Security Agency, a secretive intelligence arm of the Pentagon.
"This could be a huge mistake for the National Security Agency," said Stephen D. Bryen, president of Delta Tech, which makes data coding gear. "Clipper will make it more difficult for the U.S. to do what it has to do on an international level, to deal with bad guys using coding gear."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT SECURITY AGENCY FENIX AS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF WIRETAPPING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); APPROVALS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



112 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Rulers Are Target of New Sanctions by U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
In a tacit acknowledgment that its diplomacy has failed to restore Haiti's democratically elected Government, the Clinton Administration today imposed sanctions on supporters of the military-backed Government and said it would begin consultations on further economic measures, including a possible oil embargo.
Administration officials said the assets in the United States of 83 individuals and 35 institutions would be frozen, including cash accounts, real estate and other property. They will also be blocked from any financial transactions in the United States, and the individuals and members of their families will be barred from entering the country. 
 But some officials suggested that the sanctions might be of limited effect since most Haitian businessmen have probably moved their assets out of the United States by now.
The Administration said it would consult with the Organization of American States and the United Nations on ways to bring further economic pressure on Haiti's military rulers.
"It could include an oil embargo," said one of two midlevel Administration officials who discussed the American move with reporters today at the White House on condition that their names not be published. "That's certainly one of the measures under consideration."
The moves, the strongest American actions since a trade embargo was imposed after the overthrow of Haiti's President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in 1991, are intended to force the military leaders to accept Father Aristide's return to power.
The sanctions come two weeks after the collapse of negotiations between American and United Nations envoys and representatives of the military-backed Government in Port-au-Prince. The talks broke off over the failure of all parties -- including Father Aristide -- to agree to accept a 500-member United Nations police force intended to insure that no civil unrest would accompany Father Aristide's return to power.
 
No Concrete Results
 Father Aristide, a Roman Catholic priest, is Haiti's first democratically elected President. In January, five days before his own inauguration, President Clinton reversed himself and ordered that Haitians fleeing the country's political repression and deteriorating economic conditions would be returned without being able to press a claim of political asylum. The Coast Guard says 551 Haitians have been picked up in the waters near the island since then.
At the time of the decision, Mr. Clinton said his Administration would step up efforts to bring about Father Aristide's return. But despite the appointment of a special envoy to Haiti, the step-by-step diplomacy employed by the Administration has failed to achieve any concrete results.
"Unfortunately, the parties in Haiti have not been willing to make the decisions or take the steps necessary to begin democracy's restoration," President Clinton said in a written state today.
The President added: "In light of their own failure to act constructively, I have determined that the time has come to increase the pressure on the Haitian military, the de facto regime in Haiti and their supporters."
The sanctions are aimed at 83 individuals and 35 institutions, including Haitian banks and Government agencies, with assets in the United States. Administration officials said notifications had already been wired to Federal Reserve Banks, which would notify financial institutions where those affected by the sanctions had accounts. The officials said they expected that the accounts would be blocked by the end of the business day today.
 
Premier on the List
 Among those listed by the Treasury Department are Marc L. Bazin, the country's Prime Minister and nominal ruler, though he is actually considered a figurehead. Also listed is Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the Chief of Staff of Haiti's 7,000-man army and the man considered to be the real power in the country.
Suggestions that further economic sanctions may be imposed on Haiti's economic elite have been swirling about for months, and Administration officials acknowledge that some supporters of the military-backed Government may have shifted their funds out of American financial accounts. But these officials say the order announced today goes beyond cash and other liquid assets.
"Presumably, large-scale Haitian businessmen long ago moved most of their liquid financial assets offshore," said a senior Administration official, who spoke only on the promise of anonymity. "But if they've got nonliquid assets -- companies, real estate, houses -- that can't be moved, that would be blocked. Plus, anything that moves through the financial system -- house sales, any sort of transaction whatsoever -- will be blocked."
While the President's order about entry visas applies to supporters of the military-backed Government and members of their immediate families, the freezing of assets and the blocking of financial transactions involves only the supporters themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS); UNITED NATIONS (UN) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS); UNITED NATIONS (UN) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ASSETS, FROZEN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLITICS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); RIOTS (62%); RELIGION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



113 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: From Powerful Pulpit, a Moral Warrior Takes Aim

BYLINE: By LARRY OLMSTEAD

 BODY:
When the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d announced last month that he would unleash a campaign against explicit rap lyrics, he and his allies characterized the move as logical step for a charismatic pastor who increasingly uses his pulpit to speak out on moral issues in the black community.
But when that pulpit is at the Abyssinian Baptist Church, the 186-year-old, 5,000-member Harlem institution that was a springboard to political power for Adam Clayton Powell Jr., the sermons draw careful scrutiny. 
 So while a variety of high-profile black leaders and organizations have voiced support for his campaign, at least one Harlem church leader wondered whether Mr. Butts was drawing too much attention to a dispute that perhaps is better left resolved quietly among black people.
And his call to gather tapes and CD's at his church, at 132 West 138th Street, this morning and crush them with a steamroller seems to some to smack of the intolerance of book-burning crusades.
The scrutiny takes on even greater dimensions because of the leadership potential of Mr. Butts, 43, whose name is often floated in discussions of possible political candidates and who is known for his preaching skills, strong values and willingness to take controversial stands. That quality has earned him a shoot-from-the-hip reputation, and the campaign against explicit rap lyrics seems certain to be discussed in that context.
Mr. Butts prefers to view it all in simpler terms. "We've got to clean this up," he said. "We have to demand more of our children." As for the issues he chooses and his public image, he said, "I do what I think God is leading me to do."
Mr. Butts said his concern about rap grew after he subscribed to cable television last year and saw music videos that frequently included scantily clad women. He recalled driving in Newark and hearing a loudspeaker outside a store repeatedly blaring the lyric, "Any ho's in the house." Many rap songs refer to women as whores.
Mr. Butts has been a high-profile figure since joining the Abyssinian church in 1972 as a junior minister. He was a catalyst behind 1983 Congressional hearings on police brutality in New York. On different issues, he has been willing over the years to take on such prominent New Yorkers as John Cardinal O'Connor, Edward I. Koch and Robert M. Morgenthau.
 
Criticism Over Stances
 He endured criticism over his refusal to repudiate Louis Farrakhan's "gutter religion" remarks in 1986, and two years ago he criticized Mayor David N. Dinkins's decision to travel to Israel, saying the Mayor was "pandering" to Jewish voters.
And last year he agreed to serve as a state campaign official for Ross Perot's Presidential campaign, spurning a chance to earn political credits for supporting the eventual winner, Bill Clinton. He now calls the move "the biggest mistake I probably ever made."
But Bob Law, the WWRL-AM radio talk-show host, who is close to Dr. Butts, cites other activities that are perhaps more telling in the pastor's evolution, particularly his painting over billboards in Harlem to protest what he called the disproportionate amount of advertising of tobacco and alcohol in black neighborhoods.
Mr. Butts has also spoken in favor of youth curfews and enforcement of public nuisance laws, and he has proposed confiscating vehicles from drivers who blast loud music from their car stereos.
The rap issue "is consistent with the kind of mission Butts is on," Mr. Law said. "Butts has tried to raise some of the difficult questions, whereas some leaders have raised the obvious questions."
For instance, Mr. Law said, among black people, criticizing police brutality is a safe political position. "But can we also disagree with popular rappers?" In other words, is it all right to publicize a dispute in which blacks are at odds with other blacks?
In an interview, Mr. Butts said that rap came out of the best of the black oral tradition. He said his campaign, launched in a sermon on Mother's Day, was aimed only at "vulgar and negative images."
"To call oneself a nigger after our long history of struggle is not redemptive," Mr. Butts said. "It is not helpful to have black women bumping and grinding their almost-bare buttocks."
Mr. Butts's campaign has resulted in a number of talk-show appearances and invitations to speak to such organizations as the International Association of African-American Music and the National Association of Black Journalists. He met with some rappers on Thursday and said he hopes to establish a continuing dialogue.
Some people, like the Rev. Patricia Reeberg, executive director of the New York City Council of Churches, said they agreed with Mr. Butts's point but were uneasy over today's plan to crush offensive tapes and CD's. Where does one draw the line in terms of the right to speak freely?
In general, though, response from established black leaders and organizations has been overwhelmingly positive, whether it be from Representative Charles B. Rangel, state N.A.A.C.P. president Hazel N. Dukes or Muslim organizations.
Many black leaders noted that calls for family values have a strong appeal among black people and believe that C. Vernon Mason, an Abyssinian deacon and civil rights lawyer, was likely correct in saying, "The overwhelming majority of people in our community are not in favor of our women being referred to as bitches."
Even Cory Robbins, president of Profile Records, a rap label that features Run-D.M.C., DJ Quik and N2Deep, said he was sympathetic to Mr. Butts's point of view.
But Mr. Robbins cautioned that it was wrong to lump together all songs that have explicit lyrics -- some artists use them to make intelligent points, others don't. And "at the end of the day, if the artists want to say something in a certain way, they should be able to say it."
But, he said: "Rappers do have a responsibility to their audience. Whether they like it or not, they are role models."
 
Uneasiness Remains
 Which is not to say that Mr. Butts's campaign is welcomed by all. Even at Abyssinian, which by all visible indicators is thriving under Mr. Butts's leadership -- standing-room-only on Sundays, achieving its budget goals, running innovative economic-development and housing programs -- there have always been some who were uneasy with Mr. Butts's ventures, who preferred the low-key, nurturing leadership of his predecessor, the Rev. Samuel D. Proctor.
John Pennington, whose family's roots in the church go back several generations, commutes to Abyssinian from Long Island. "I don't understand why I have to pay $10 to come into the city to hear someone talk about rap music," he said.
The Rev. Preston Washington, president of the 58-member Harlem Churches for Community Improvement, said, "Wouldn't it have been a better solution to meet, to work out something in-house?"
Mr. Washington, who is pastor of Memorial Baptist Church in Harlem, said the complexity of problems facing black people argued for Mr. Butts's consulting with other ministers for a collective approach toward problem solving.
 
Hints of Political Interest
 Like Mr. Powell, who used the Abyssinian pulpit as a base to gain elected office, Mr. Butts has shown interest in the political arena. The pastor, who speaks supportively of Mr. Dinkins's re-election campaign, remains close to City Council President Andrew J. Stein and is at least cordial with the Republican-Liberal candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani. He is said to have considered a race for public advocate, the renamed office of the City Council president.
And there was his support of the Perot candidacy, which he said resulted from his conclusion that the Democrats had mistreated Jesse Jackson and that the Republicans offered no alternative for black voters.
Some find the various options and alliances confusing in terms of reading Mr. Butts's own aspirations.
Speaking of his future recently, Mr. Butts said: "If the people of this community, or the city of New York or the state of New York, were to come and say, 'You know, Rev. Butts, you really ought to consider becoming a United States senator,' or something like that . . . and the Lord says, 'This is another extension of what I'd like you to do,' then I'll do it."
For now, Mr. Butts is working with the public school system toward the opening this fall of the Thurgood Marshall Academy for Learning and Social Change, for grades 6-12, and says he feels challenged by the church's economic development projects.
Mr. Butts said he saw the consensus-building approach to addressing an issue like explicit rap lyrics as tantamount to doing nothing while conditions for black people worsened.
He added that he does not weigh the political ramifications before deciding to speak out on a moral issue. "I think the moment I do that, I've betrayed my calling," he said.
"I'm not called to be popular. I'm not even called to be successful," Mr. Butts said. "I'm called to be faithful to the struggle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We've got to clean this up," said the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, who has asked people to bring explicit rap tapes and CD's to the Abyssinian Baptist Church to be crushed by a steamroller. "We have to demand more of our children." (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (MANHATTAN)

ORGANIZATION: ABYSSINIAN BAPTIST CHURCH (MANHATTAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RAP MUSIC; BLACKS (IN US) PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSIC (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (50%); 

PERSON: OLMSTEAD, LARRY; BUTTS, CALVIN O 3D (REV)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



114 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Hartford Bill on Integration Is Approved

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 4

 BODY:
A bill promoting racial integration in public schools across Connecticut won final approval tonight in the State Senate.
Although weakened by its supporters to win passage, the bill is a significant step toward addressing the issue of segregated schools, by requiring the state's cities and towns to participate in regional talks and offering financial incentives if they create schools that draw students across municipal boundaries. 
 Spurred through a nervous General Assembly by a lawsuit that seeks a school desegregation order for Hartford and 21 surrounding towns, the bill sets a one-year timetable for towns and cities to draft plans to "reduce barriers to opportunity" and "enhance student diversity."
It offers financial incentives for cooperation in voluntary measures like building new magnet schools or interdistrict schools, or otherwise allowing children from one community to attend school with those from another.
But school desegregation is such a volatile issue in Connecticut, where segregated schools have resulted from whites moving to suburbs, leaving poor black and Hispanic residents concentrated in the cities, that the bill's supporters took out many of its strongest points to insure that it would be approved. The vote was 19 to 16.
 
No Goals or Forced Participation
 The measure makes no direct reference to integration, desegregation or race. It sets no goals. It leaves the final decision on each regional plan in the hands of local town councils and school boards, rather than state officials. And it does not require any town or city to take part in the plans that they draw up.
In its original form the bill set guidelines under which 70 percent of the state's schools, both city and suburban, would be considered racially isolated, and it established as its primary goal the reduction of racial imbalance. Supporters in the legislature congratulated each other on establishing what they said was a framework needed for significant change. But others who had sought passage of the bill said that it was simply more of what Connecticut had already done on school integration: talk, but no real action.
Republicans attacked the bill tonight as an assault on local control over schools and an opening to mandatory busing across town lines, as Democratic supporters stressed that any measures taken under it would be voluntary.
The bill is expected to be signed by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who started the debate in the General Assembly in January by devoting his State of the State Message to the racial and economic segregation dividing Connecticut's cities and towns. Because of the failures of schools in the state's cities, he said, the state was building more prisons than schools.
Soon desegregation was the talk of the state as Mr. Weicker's Education Commissioner, Vincent Ferrandino, submitted legislation that set goals for reducing racial isolation in both city and suburban schools.
 
Threat of Court Order
 Many legislators credit the bill's passage to the threat of a court order in the Hartford lawsuit, known as Sheff v. O'Neill, in which lawyers for 18 schoolchildren contend that the racial and economic isolation in the city's schools denies their students equal educational opportunity.
The city's enrollment is 92 percent black and Hispanic, and nearly two-thirds of the children live below the poverty line; they produce the lowest scores on statewide tests in reading, writing and mathematics.
The suit, in effect, is seeking a ruling in state courts that de facto segregation, because of its effects on education, is unconstitutional. Federal courts have refused to act against segregation that has not resulted from intentional discrimination.
The state's lawyers, in defending against the suit during testimony this winter, argued that Connecticut was already addressing the disparities between city and suburban schools, and cited the legislation as evidence.
In some ways, the legislation, in requiring towns and cities to meet together to discuss public education, is a major step forward for Connecticut. But in other ways, critics said, it follows the state's history over the last 25 years: studying racial isolation but doing little about it.
"If the goal is to bring the districts together to talk, then it is highly successful, because it requires the districts to participate in regional forums," said John Brittain, a University of Connecticut law professor and a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the Sheff suit. "But the bill has no relationship to the Sheff suit whatsoever, because the goal of that suit is to produce educational and racial equity."
The weakening of the bill, however, took place within the Education Committee, as Senator Sullivan and his House counterpart, Representative Nancy Wyman of Tolland, negotiated with the Governor and Mr. Ferrandino for a version that could win Democratic support.
The result, legislation so carefully couched in euphemism that Mr. Sullivan defined "diversity" tonight without mentioning race, nevertheless was attacked by Republicans as an outright desegregation bill.
"I would like to view education with a blind eye toward race," said Sen. John A. Kissel, a Republican from Enfield who won a special election this winter in part by opposing Mr. Ferrandino's original proposal.
The bill outlines a process starting in 1994 for local elected officials and school boards to study the educational needs of their communities and then appoint representatives to regional forums. The forums would also include a few parents and teachers.
By the end of 1994, the governing councils and school boards are to vote on the plans, and the Commissioner of Education can then recommend them for construction aid based on how well they meet his criteria for improving student performance and promoting integration.
If the Legislature approves such aid, financing would be available for the plans in the 1995-96 school year.
Senator Thirman L. Milner of Hartford, the city's first black Mayor, angrily criticized the bill's mention of school choice, which some members of the House had demanded as the price for their support. Choice plans, he said, simply attract a city's best students to suburban schools, leaving behind those who most need an integrated experience.
Then he said: "I wish, Senator Kissel, I could be like you, could turn a blind eye to the issue of race. I wish that people would not judge others by skin color. I'm sorry you don't know what diversity means. That's regrettable. But I do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS (IN US); EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT RACE & RACISM (94%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (91%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



115 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Barrington D. Parker, 77, Is Dead; Trial Judge for Reagan's Attacker

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Judge Barrington D. Parker of the Federal District Court in Washington, who presided over the trial of John W. Hinckley Jr., the would-be Presidential assassin, and in other major cases, died on Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77.
The cause was complications from a heart attack and stroke he suffered in 1989, a family spokesman said. Judge Parker lived in Northwest Washington. 
 Judge Parker, who was appointed to the bench by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969, was noted for his boldness. "He has no hesitancy in coming forth with unpopular decisions," a longtime friend and fellow Federal judge, Robert L. Carter, once said.
Until his appointment, Judge Parker, a Republican, practiced law as a partner in the firm of Parker & Parker. He retired from the Federal bench in 1985.
Judge Parker was born in Rosslyn, Va., on Nov. 17, 1915, the only child of George A. Parker and Maude Daniels Parker. His father was dean of the Terrell Law School in Washington, which has since closed. Judge Parker once taught there.
 
Chicago Law Graduate
 He went to Dunbar High School in Washington, where he met his wife, the former Marjorie Holloman. He graduated in 1936 from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania with a bachelor's degree in economics and, in 1938, he received a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He earned his law degree from the University of Chicago in 1947.
In a 1973 ruling, Judge Parker barred the Nixon Administration's attempt to impose certain price controls, calling them "arbitrary and capricious." In another case, he ruled against a National Guard attempt to bar long-haired guardsmen from wearing short-cropped wigs when on duty.
And in 1978, in connection with a merger between the National Student Marketing Company and an insurance holding company, he ruled that Federal securities regulations did not require lawyers to disclose fraud by their clients.
At the 1982 trial of Mr. Hinckley, the jury found the defendant not guilty by reason of insanity of trying to assassinate President Ronald Reagan after Judge Parker told its members that they had to be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the prosecution had proved the gunman was able to understand the wrongfulness.
 
Ordered Hinckley Committed
 Mr. Hinckley had shot and wounded Mr. Reagan and three other men, including the White House press secretary, James Brady, on March 30, 1981. After the acquittal, Judge Parker ordered Mr. Hinckley committed to a mental hospital.
When not in judicial robes, the judge liked to read historical fiction -- James Michener was a favorite -- and listen to progressive jazz and classical music.
In October 1975, Judge Parker was struck by a car while crossing a Washington street, and his left leg had to be amputated.
Besides his wife, Judge Parker is survived by two sons, Jason Parker of Manhattan, and Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, Conn.; an uncle, Grafton Daniels of Washington, and three granddaughters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Barrington D. Parker (The New York Times, 1988)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PARKER & PARKER (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); JUDGES (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); VERDICTS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); JURY TRIALS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); ACQUITTAL (79%); EVIDENCE (78%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); STROKES (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (66%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); HISTORY (62%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (50%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%); 

PERSON: PARKER, BARRINGTON D (JUDGE); HEVESI, DENNIS; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; HINCKLEY, JOHN W JR RONALD REAGAN (89%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



116 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: THE GUINIER BATTLE;
President Blames Himself for Furor Over Nominee

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
His skin was ruddy as ever. He seemed resolute enough. But there was a star-crossed look on President Clinton's face when he joined his dinner guests Thursday night, two hours late, after what he described as "a brutal, heartbreaking day" wrestling with the fate of Lani Guinier.
He blamed neither Ms. Guinier, whose nomination as head of the civil rights division in the Justice Department he had just withdrawn, nor his staff. He blamed only himself for the hurt he had caused his friend and himself. 
 As he ate his dinner, and over coffee later, Mr. Clinton appeared quite willing, at times almost eager, to discuss how he had got into this mess, which stopped the momentum he had seemed to be gaining after his victory on taxes and spending in the House of Representatives and his appointment of David R. Gergen as Presidential counselor.
 
Acknowledges Mistakes
 He acknowledged that he had been wrong to nominate Ms. Guinier without first reading her legal articles carefully; wrong to assume, when they caused controversy, that she could still be confirmed because people would know that Attorney General Janet Reno, not Ms. Guinier, would set department policy, and wrong to let political pressures build to the bursting point before deciding what he ought to do.
Mr. Clinton, who has known Ms. Guinier since their days together at the Yale Law School in the 1970's, said that she had resisted his decision, "which must have hit her in the head like a two-by-four," but that she "was a champ."
"I love her," he said. "I think she's wonderful. If she called me and told me she needed $5,000, I'd take it from my account and send it to her, no questions asked. It was the hardest decision I've had to make since I became President, but you can't fight on and on when you don't believe in it.
"I really don't think what's in her articles matches what I stand for."
 
Possible Fallout From Decision
 One of those seated with him asked whether, on purely political grounds, he might not have been better off to let the nomination go forward, even if defeat in the Senate ensued, thus placing at least some of the onus on Capitol Hill. The President replied rather grimly that his questioner might be right.
But in his campaign last year, he said, he had talked about an inclusive society, in which everyone would be treated equally, and he found it impossible to support a nominee whose writings seemed to him to advocate different political mechanisms for blacks.
Mr. Clinton readily conceded that he might lose the support of the black caucus in the House of Representatives, with its 38 votes, as well as the backing of a significant number of women in Congress. He conceded that he could not afford to lose those votes on important issues like his health plan and campaign and welfare reform, to say nothing of his economic program.
And he spoke with ill-concealed bitterness about what he described as "a campaign of right-wing distortion and vilification" in the news media, mentioning with particular scorn an April 30 Wall Street Journal op-ed article by Clint Bolick, a longtime associate of Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court. Its headline branded Ms. Guinier a "quota queen," a phrase that was picked up and used by her critics and other newspapers.
Most of the 39 people at four round tables in the Green Room, a dining room in Jefferson's day that is now used mainly for receptions, were halfway through their beef Wellington, and some were on their second glass of Jordan Cabernet Sauvignon, when the President finally walked in and sat down. After a few moments, he slowly began explaining, in reply to a question, why he had decided to abandon the nomination.
 
Gore's Advice to President
 If not an historic moment, at least by the standards of the White House, where so many truly portentous decisions have been reached, it was a highly dramatic one, and many of the guests -- journalists, Democratic leaders, businessmen, figures from the capital's cultural life -- sensed how much Mr. Clinton had at stake as he struggles to get his Presidency back on course.
It was Vice President Al Gore, the President said, who had confronted him Thursday morning and told him he had to thoroughly study the three or four law journal articles that were causing trouble, then decide quickly what to do.
 
Matters That Troubled Clinton
 On the way to Frederick, Md., for a speaking date, and on the way back, Mr. Clinton said he read them. He had been leaning toward withdrawal, but they were the final element in convincing him, he said, that he must abandon the nomination. He discussed the crisis with Ms. Guinier for more than an hour, starting at 6:30 P.M. and continuing while his guests sipped cocktails on the Truman balcony and toured the Lincoln Bedroom and the Treaty Room with the President's wife, Hillary.
While there had been anti-Guinier pressure from the Senate in the preceding days, and the situation there was "horrible," the President said, on Thursday the pro-Guinier pressure, chiefly from blacks and women, was greater. The advice from his staff, Mr. Clinton added, "went both ways, yes and no."
Pressed to explain why he had not read the journal articles weeks ago, the President said that he had kept expecting people to focus on "what she has done in court, not what she has written." Far too late, he said, he realized that as in the case of Robert H. Bork, whose nomination for the Supreme Court in 1987 was defeated during the Reagan Administration, it was the paper trail that mattered most.
He mentioned two specific matters that troubled him most deeply.
In a Virginia Law Review article, Ms. Guinier spoke of "authentic black leaders" and suggested that black politicians who represented largely white constituencies were obliged to dilute the intensity of their concentration on issues of primary interest to blacks. In a footnote, she seemed to cite Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia as such a politician, but she and her supporters later said that she had not meant to single out Governor Wilder.
"I don't agree with any of that," Mr. Clinton said near the end of the dinner gathering, "but even if I cut her some slack on black leaders, I just can't agree with her on the Alabama case, as fine a woman as she is."
In a case from Etowah County, Ala., the white majority prevented a black county commissioner from exercising his powers. Ms. Guinier cited this as the sort of case that needed bold new remedies, such as cumulative voting, in one of her articles. In discussions with him, the President said, she said that such remedies should be used "only in extreme cases, but what she wrote was much broader than that."
The President acknowledged that power-sharing, or modifications of majority rule to assure participation by a minority, had been considered by the British in Northern Ireland and would probably be adopted in South Africa. It has also been used in a number of cases in this country. But he said the treatment of blacks and whites as two separate communities in the United States -- as "we and they" -- "runs completely counter to all of my ideas about a single society."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lani Guinier greeting Ginny Montes, national secretary of the National Organization for Women, after her news conference yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Chronology: "Clinton on Guinier"
 On April 29, President Clinton nominated Lani Guinier to be Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Department's civil rights division. Here are some of his comments about her and the appointment since then.
 
May 11 (At an awards dinner of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights)
"I want to say a special word of support for Lani Guinier. I went to law school with her, and I announced at the Justice Department the other day, when we announced all of our assistant attorneys general, that she had actually sued me once. Not only that, she didn't lose. And I nominated her anyway. So the Senate ought to be able to put up with a little controversy in the cause of civil rights and go on and confirm her so we can get about the business of America."
 
May 14 (At a news conference)
"I nominated her because there had never been a full-time practicing civil rights lawyer, with a career in civil rights law, heading the civil rights division. I expect the policy to be made on civil rights laws by the United States Congress, and I expect the Justice Department to carry out that policy. Insofar as there is discretion in the policy, that discretionary authority should reside either in the President or the Attorney General in terms of what policies the country will follow. I still think she's a very well-qualified civil rights lawyer, and I hope she will be confirmed. And I think she has every intention of following the law of the land as Congress writes it."
 
May 14 (Following the news conference)
"I would never have appointed anybody to public office if they had to agree with everything I believe in. We wouldn't have a Cabinet. Based on my personal experience, you will believe me when I say I am confident that she will follow the Constitution and the laws of the United States. You have to swear an oath of office to that. She may wish the law were different in some areas, but I've had personal experience with her accomplishments as a civil rights lawyer. And I thought we ought to have a distinguished civil rights lawyer as head of the civil rights division. ... I never have associated myself with all of her writings, or all of anybody else's."
 
June 2 (During a photo opportunity)
"I think that I have to talk to some of the senators about it because of the reservations that have been raised both publicly and privately. I want to reaffirm two positive things about her. One is everyone can see she is a first-rate civil rights lawyer, and no real civil rights lawyer has ever held that position before, someone who's made a career of it. Secondly, I think any reasonable reading of her writings would lead someone to conclude that a lot of the attacks cannot be supported by a fair reading of the writings. And that's not to say that I agree with everything in the writings; I don't. But I think that a lot of what has been said is not accurate. On the other hand, I have to take into account where the Senate is, and I will be doing that and talking to them."
 
June 3 (Announcing the withdrawal of the nomination)
"At the time of the nomination, I had not read her writings. In retrospect, I wish I had. Today, as a matter of fairness to her, I read some of them again in good detail. They clearly lend themselves to interpretations that do not represent the views that I expressed on civil rights during my campaign, and views that I hold very dearly, even though there is much in them with which I agree. ... The problem is that this battle will be waged based on her academic writings. And I cannot fight a battle that I know is divisive, that is an uphill battle, that is distracting to the country, if I do not believe in the ground of the battle. That is the only problem." (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS; BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); WOMEN (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GUINIER, LANI; RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN); BOLICK, CLINT; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



117 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Job Surge Hurts Stocks, But Dow Gains Fraction

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Most leading stock indexes moved lower yesterday on a largely lackluster trading day, uninspired by strong jobs data issued yesterday morning.
An exception was the Dow Jones industrial average, which was down as much as 14 points but shot up 5.5 points in the last five minutes of trading. The Dow closed at 3,545.14, up 0.27 point for the day and up 17.71 for the week. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500, with a greater variety of stocks than the blue-chip index, closed 2.43 points lower at 450.06. The Nasdaq composite index, with more than 3,500 smaller-capitalization and high-technology stocks, closed down 4.21 points, to 702.01. The Nasdaq 100, made up of the largest of those stocks, declined even more precipitously, down 6.87 points, to 737.25.
 
Indexes Are Down
 The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index closed down 1.37 points, to 248.22. Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange was also relatively light for most of the session, possibly exaggerating the price declines. Big Board volume totaled 226.4 million shares, compared with 285.6 million on Thursday.
The American Stock Exchange market value index closed up 0.04 point, to 440.95, another record.
The May unemployment figures released by the Labor Department were better than generally expected. Traders were looking for a 7 percent rate, matching the April number, and the actual figure was 6.9 percent, the lowest level in 18 months.
But traders may have seen a cloud rather than a silver lining in the data. The jobs figure could put added pressure on the Federal Reserve Board, which voted last month to raise interest rates if necessary, to actually do so, diminishing the allure of stocks to investors. Bond prices fell in part out of traders' concerns that the Fed would raise rates.
 
Gains for Gold
 Gold prices rose strongly, a move that was partly followed by most gold stocks. Some money shifted from stocks to gold in the early afternoon, contributing to the Dow's decline.
Echo Bay Mines, which has regularly been among the most active stocks on the American Stock Exchange recently, closed up 1/8, to 11 3/4. Newmont Mining closed unchanged at 51 1/2.
No stocks dominated trading in today's session. Allstate, in its second day of trading after the initial public offering, was the most active stock, at 6.3 million shares. It closed down 3/4, to 28 5/8.
Wal-Mart was the second-most-active stock, with 4.83 million shares traded. It closed down 3/4, to 26 3/4, on concern among some investors that retail sales would remain sluggish.
Synoptics Communications Inc. dropped 12 1/4, to 106, after a downgrading of the stock by a Salomon Brothers analyst. Synoptics is a computer networking company that makes and markets equipment for both computer and telecommunications uses.
But if the economy remains sluggish, demand for such high-tech gear may slow significantly, analysts say. A Ladenburg Thalmann analyst, however, reaffirmed his buy recommendation for Synoptics.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (54%); K (TSX) (54%); NEM (NYSE) (52%); ALL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (54%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: SYNOPTICS COMMUNICATIONS INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); KINROSS GOLD CORP (54%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (52%); ALLSTATE CORP (51%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); GOLD MINING (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



118 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Jobless Rate Down to 7.4%

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
A surprising surge in employment after three months of economic deterioration cut the unemployment rate in New Jersey to 7.4 percent last month, according to Federal data released yesterday.
The May unemployment rate was the lowest since January and it was appreciably below the 9.1 percent in April, when New Jersey had the highest rate of any large industrialized state. 
 "One month does not make a trend, but the May numbers for New Jersey are very encouraging," said Jesse Benjamin, the assistant New York regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which released the report yesterday.
 
Leading the Nation
 While New Jersey's unemployment rate declined in May, both the number of people in the labor maket and the number who were employed rose sharply. Indeed, in a finding that baffled some economists in the region, the Federal agency said New Jersey added 130,000 jobs in May, more than half of the nation's entire job growth for the month.
Elsewhere in the region, the data showed little change from previous months.
In New York State, unemployment rose to 7.5 percent, from 7 percent in April. In New York City, it declined to 9.5 percent, from 9.8 percent in April. Connecticut is not among the states for which employment data are released with the national report each month.
"The numbers are consistent with what we know already: the region is in a long wide bottom of the recession," said Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Ms. Scanlon said she was skeptical of the May data showing an extraordinary increase in New Jersey employment. The numbers were derived from a Federal survey in which thousands of people are visited in their homes each month. "The greatest probability is that there was an unusual sampling result," she said.
Ray Bramucci, the Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Labor, said the huge increase "is a ballistic missile move that has left the professionals on my staff in a quandary." As Ms. Scanlon did, he also said the May data might have been influenced by glitches in the Federal survey.
Still, after sharp unemployment increases in each of the three months beginning in January, when New Jersey's rate was 7.4 percent, Ms. Scanlon said the good news about May merely brought the state back in line with New York State results and with economists' expectations.
"Things haven't gotten worse, but they haven't got that much better either," she said.
The May report could have political repercussions in New Jersey, where Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat, is being challenged in a heated re-election bid this year. The high unemployment rate that had been reported for the state for April could not have been good news for his campaign.
Yesterday, Mr. Florio responded to the May report by saying "the numbers are headed in the right direction." But Cary Edwards, a candidate for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in the state's primary on Tuesday, said the employment data might have improved because employers are "reacting to the prospect of a fundamental change in state policy" and a new governor.
 
Weather May Have Helped
 One reason cited for the May improvement was good weather. Mr. Benjamin said the weather might have prompted employers to hire summer workers in recreational industries and students on summer vacation earlier than usual. Other analysts said construction activity had shown signs of picking up.
Mr. Bramucci of the state's Labor Department said no construction data were yet available for May, but that housing starts in New Jersey had increased by a strong 43 percent in March and that the increases appeared to have been sustained in the last two months.
Another indicator of improvement was in first-time claims for unemployment benefits, recorded by Mr. Bramucci's department. He said the number of new claims shrank 7 percent in May, to 11,172.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The labor Picture in May" shows employement and unemploymet statistics for May. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); CITIES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



119 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Rise in Jobs Roils Bond Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Treasury market was rocked by a surprisingly strong employment report yesterday, driving yields higher on everything from bills to bonds.
The surprise in the May jobs report was twofold. First, the increase in nonfarm payroll jobs of 209,000 in the month was higher than the consensus forecast of about 140,000, showing that the economy was spunkier than expected. The second surprise was the revision of the April increase, which was raised to 216,000 from the initial report of 119,000. 
 "The economy appears now to be accelerating some but to what level no one knows," said Donald Fine, the chief market analyst for Chase Securities Inc.
 
3% Growth Seen
 Mr. Fine argued that the strong jobs report and the increases in income and consumer spending that it implied, taken with signs that car sales were accelerating, meant that the economy was on a track of 3 percent growth, which could mean inflation would rise. That is the outlook that worried the bond market.
Despite the sharp fall in prices, which sent yields surging, immediately after the 8:30 A.M. release of the jobs data by the Labor Department, the market reaction in longer-term issues seemed constrained. And that may be because the Federal Reserve indicated recently that it would move to contain inflation by pushing up short-term interest rates.
While the price of the 30-year bond dropped 20/32 and the yield jumped to 6.91 percent, from 6.86 percent Thursday, the yield was still well below the 6.98 percent of a week ago. In addition, the price of the bond was down almost a point and the yield up to 6.93 percent before rebounding a little in the afternoon.
 
Bills and Notes React
 The bigger reaction in the bond market was in Treasury bills and shorter-term Treasury notes. The yield on the two-year note jumped to 4.31 percent, from 4.13 percent Thursday. And the discount rate on the six-month Treasury bill, which was 3.15 percent Thursday, leaped to 3.27 percent yesterday.
The reason for this sharper response is that the stronger jobs growth, combined with the sharp rise in inflation so far this year, to a 4.3 percent annual rate, means that there is less chance for inflation subsiding in the second half of the year. If that is the case, it is more likely that the Federal Reserve will push short-term interest rates higher to try to restrain price increases.
Reports have already indicated that the Fed is ready to push the Federal funds rate higher if inflation does not subside. Its target for the Fed funds rate, which is the interest rate charged on overnight loans between banks, has been 3 percent since last September.
In addition, traders said the market might have been affected by a Reuters report yesterday, attributed to a Treasury official, that the Administration would not be too concerned by an increase in rates by the Fed to fight inflation.
In the report, Alicia Munnell, the Assistant Treasury Secretary for Economic Policy, said, "It really would be overreacting to become concerned every time the Fed moved to keep inflation within acceptable limits."
 
Inflation Data Coming
 What will happen to interest rates from here will depend in part on the inflation data for May, which is due in the next week and a half. If the increases for May are subdued and show the 4.3 percent pace of the first four months of the year is slowing, then the Federal Reserve could hold off from increasing short-term rates for now. This would take some pressure off both short and long rates.
But if inflation is up sharply again, than Mr. Fine of Chase Securities said he thought that the Fed would have to move right away. This could push short rates even higher, but the rise at the long end may be contained if the market believes that the Fed will continue to fight rising inflation by pushing up short-term rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CHASE SECURITIES INC (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (54%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



120 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: Squaring Off Over Cigarette Taxes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
Never friends, seldom respectful of each other, the tobacco industry and antismoking forces have renewed their hostilities over industry claims that a higher excise tax on tobacco products, as part of the Clinton Administration's health-care plan, would devastate large parts of the economy.
Braced for the current tax of 24 cents a pack to at least double, and possibly amount to more than $2, tobacco interests predict those levels would cut consumption enough to kill hundreds of thousands of jobs in industries from farming to retailing, close businesses and deprive state and local governments of millions of dollars in taxes.
 
Another Point of View
 Yet opponents cite the industry's own behavior of the last 13 years to dispute those arguments. Until April -- when Philip Morris announced price cuts of up to 40 cents a pack on Marlboro, and other cigarette makers followed suit -- the companies had raised prices 33 times, by more than 350 percent, notwithstanding a tripling of the Federal excise tax. Yet jobs did not disappear at nearly the rate the tobacco interests are now predicting they will. 
 In fact, the companies have generated higher profits during those years largely by raising prices, importing greater amounts of less expensive foreign tobaccos for discount brands and improving technology.
"The numbers being thrown around by the tobacco industry bear no relation to reality whatsoever," Matthew Myers, counsel to the Coalition on Smoking or Health in Washington, said. "In effect, the tobacco manufacturers cloak themselves as white knights, fighting the evil tobacco tax that would attack jobs. What they're not telling people is that their own decision to raise prices, to import increasing amounts of tobacco and to use ever more mechanized equipment has caused the loss of more jobs than could possibly be lost with the levels of increase being talked about."
 
Black Market
 In either case, making cigarettes so much more expensive would likely expand the black market and could lead to increased crime. And such a big increase, if applied at once, could mean that past relationships of price, consumption and jobs no longer apply.
A study by Price Waterhouse for the Tobacco Institute, the industry lobby in Washington, concluded that a 48-cent tax would eliminate 114,117 jobs -- or 5 percent of 2.28 million jobs in the growth, manufacturing and distribution of tobacco products -- and $3.33 billion in payroll losses. A $2 increase would cost 776,056 jobs -- or 34 percent -- and $22.68 billion in compensation. A survey by the Tobacco Merchants Association, an economic information service in Lawrenceville, N.J., was even bleaker.
By comparison, the increase in the price of cigarettes over the last 13 years has caused job losses of only 1.33 percent annually.
Yet the Tobacco Institute projections, the industry points out, do not reflect lower consumption caused by state tax increases on tobacco products. This year alone, 28 states considered increases and three -- New York, North Dakota and New Mexico -- enacted them, bringing the national average of state taxes above 27 cents per pack of cigarettes.
The overall effect could easily drive the price of premium brand cigarettes up by about a third to $3 a pack from about $2.20 to $2.25 now. That prospect is causing all kinds of concerns for businesses that rely heavily on tobacco sales. For example, convenience store operators, which derive almost a quarter of their sales from cigarettes, more than any other product, are being asked by the National Association of Convenience Stores to put their concerns in writing in a major lobbying campaign.
 
Security Concerns
 Ron Bane, the owner of a distribution company in South San Francisco, Calif., that serves 12 Western states and four Canadian provinces, said he worries over the additional security measures he would need once new taxes make cigarettes more valuable. Already, he said, one of his trucks delivering cigarettes was hijacked at gunpoint in Canada, where excise taxes have pushed the price of cigarettes to more than $60 a carton, about twice the current price in America.
Equally worried are the tobacco growing states. Twenty-five House Democrats, mostly from Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, wrote to President Clinton in March, saying they would "find it most difficult" to support a health-care plan that would harm their constituents.
Zane Hedgecock, a 10th-generation tobacco grower in High Point, N.C., said farmers in the area would "absolutely go out of business, no question about it" if the excise tax were raised.
Farmers' profit margins have declined while the major manufacturers' profits have risen, with Philip Morris's operating income for domestic tobacco doubling since 1986, to nearly $5.2 billion last year. Farmers have been squeezed by a combination of rising costs for labor, fertilizers and chemicals, and the relatively stagnant prices of tobacco leaves, depressed by an influx of cheap foreign imports. According to the Tobacco Growers Information Committee in Raleigh, N.C., flue-cured tobacco leaves generated about $1,200 an acre last year, a drop of 13 percent since 1988; burley tobacco brought $801 an acre, a 17 percent drop since 1989.
The Tobacco Institute study predicted that excise tax increases of 24 cents, $1 and $2 would eliminate 8,140, 27,654 and 55,308 farming jobs, respectively.
 
A Fine Line
 "We work on such a fine line of profit, any decline would have a dramatic effect on us," said Mr. Hedgecock, a 34-year-old farmer who has traced his lineage to William Hitchcock, an Englishman who began growing tobacco in the same area in 1652. Mr. Hedgecock said his greatest fear is that his 4-year-old son, Daniel, would become the first generation of the family not to grow tobacco.
Plant workers in North Carolina and elsewhere are also concerned about jobs. Ray Scannell, the director of research for the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers Union in Kensington, Md., predicted that to preserve margins in the face of higher taxes, companies like Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds might expand operations in countries where manufacturing is cheaper. Since 1990, for example, Philip Morris has opened or improved plants in eastern Germany, Hungary, Russia and Lithuania.
Attrition also worries the sales and distribution sectors.
"If consumption falls by any significant degree, we would see 20 to 30 percent out of business almost overnight," said David E. Strachan, the executive vice president of the American Wholesale Marketers Association, whose membership includes 1,400 distributors and 300 retailers.
Some wholesalers, he said, would grow short of funds if retailers, their sales falling, could not pay promptly, forcing middlemen to carry less inventory, borrow more money or both.
Many retailers, like small-store owners in Massachusetts near the state line with New Hampshire, are already suffering. Massachusetts has a cigarette excise tax of 51 cents a pack, the second highest in the country after New York's, which became 56 cents on June 1; New Hampshire's excise tax is only 25 cents.
 
Other Sales Affected
 "Massachusetts is not only losing tobacco sales, but sales of everything else," said Cathy Flaherty, executive director of the New England Convenience Store Association. "People are not stopping to buy cigarettes, so they're not buying bread, gum or candy, either."
Those kinds of disparities in cigarette prices are also fueling a growing black market, particularly in Canada, where excise taxes have increased 600 percent since 1980. By last year one of every six packs sold in Canada was contraband, up from one in nine the year before, according to a recent report for the Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers Council.
An increase in excise taxes in the United States might stem some of the smuggling, but could invite other types of crime. Robert Parker, president of the Canadian council, said shootings, robberies, hijackings and murders related to cigarettes have increased in Canada. "We have not collected statistics that are reliable," he said, "but police agencies describe this as the fastest-growing type of urban crime in Canada."
Indeed, law enforcement authorities in the United States say black market cigarette sales have grown in high-tax states. One officer described an emergence of "mom-and-pop organized crime groups," but not yet an escalation of violence.
"The reason is simple," said the officer, John Meenaghan, the agent in charge of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms office in Buffalo. "The risk of going to jail if you get caught is probably nonexistent. Maybe you get a fine."
But many of these arguments, reasoned as they seem, are lost on anti-smoking factions who regard smokers as major contributors to rising health-care costs.
 
'No Evidence Whatsoever'
 "The revenue source used to fund any tax is going to have some affect on jobs," said Mr. Myers of the Coalition on Smoking or Health. "There is no evidence whatsoever that more jobs would be lost raising this tax than any other revenue-raising measure being considered. And this revenue-raiser also saves lives."
Both sides are adamant in their positions, as antismokers pit themselves against manufacturers as social villains and smokers as public nuisances. Already, several bills are under consideration in Congress, including one sponsored in the House by Representative Mike Andrews of Texas and in the Senate by Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey that would raise the tax by 76 cents, to $1, to improve health-care coverage.
Mr. Andrews flatly rejects predictions of economic chaos, saying industry officials "spin their numbers to make false points." His bill would designate the vast portion of revenues to cover medical costs but would also provide 3 percent of the revenues for programs that would help farmers convert their land to other crops and 10 percent to the states to offset losses in sales and excise taxes.
It is still far too soon to know what the new excise tax will be. A recommendation by the health-care task force will move to the House Ways and Means Committee and Senate Finance Committee, prior to any Congressional and Presidential approval. Meanwhile, industries wait and worry.
"There probably will be an increase," said Marc Katz, director of Congressional Affairs for the National Association of Convenience Stores. "For us, $1 would be devastating. But even if it's less, I'm not sure what level we would consider a victory."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zane Hedgecock, a tobacco grower in High Point, N.C., said farmers in the area would "absolutely go out of business, no question about it" if the excise tax were raised. With him on his farm was his son Daniel. (Jim Stratford for The New York Times)(pg. 37)
 
Graph: "Cheap U.S. Smokes" shows average cigarette taxes for selkected countries. (Source: Coalition on Smoking or Health)(pg. 49)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (52%); TOBACCO INSTITUTE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOBACCO INSTITUTE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EXCISE TAXES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TOBACCO; SMOKING; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AUTOMATION; FARMERS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CIGARETTES TOBACCO PRODUCTS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EXCISE TAX (91%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SMOKING (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CRIME RATES (67%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



121 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
Following the Ways of an Urban Bird

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

 BODY:
"You take a flamingo -- you think a flamingo could make it in New York City?" asked Sithandivine Frazer, who is 10 years old.
"Nah," answered his brother Amos, 9. " A flamingo would probably get hit by a truck and break his skinny legs." 
 "But pigeons," said the oldest Frazer brother, Michael, 14, "pigeons do just fine here. They are really amazing birds even if nobody ever pays much attention to them."
The brothers had come to Saratoga Park in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, along with 13 other members of neighborhood 4-H clubs, precisely to pay attention to pigeons. They were starting out as the vanguard of a three-year scientific survey of pigeon social life sponsored by Cornell University with a National Science Foundation grant.
"The idea is for inner-city kids to learn about science and for all of us to learn about pigeons," explained Margaret Barker of the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology.
And while pigeons are as common as dust around here, the youngsters who gathered at Saratoga Park pointed out how the hardy, adaptable and strutting birds were in many ways the perfect emblematic creature for this city.
"They came here from Africa, Asia and Europe," said Maria Bethel, an 8-year-old setting off a flurry of volunteered pigeon facts from the other 4-H clubbers.
"They were brought here by the Colonial settlers."
"People used to eat them and race them but they got away and became free."
"They come in many colors, black, brown, red and white."
"They can live next to subways and can sleep under elevated tracks."
"They eat what we eat, bread, cookies and rice and beans."
"When you take them to the country they always come back to the city."
"They always know how to get home."
"Some people call them roach birds or flying rats."
"Their real name is rock doves."
"They like to hang out with their friends."
If there was much about pigeons that inspired admiration and identification, there was also much about the birds that was not fully known, making pigeons a tantalizing subject for study. For one thing, why was it that you hardly ever saw baby pigeons? How exactly did they navigate? What made a particular pigeon the dominant bird in a flock?
"Eventually we'll get our youngsters to observe pigeons to provide data on such questions," said Lucinda Randolph Benjamin, who is the 4-H Club representative in charge of setting up and maintaining the project. She explained that traditionally the 4-H worked with rural youngsters as part of cooperative extension programs intended to spread new agricultural findings. Since 1985 the organization has sponsored clubs in New York City, stressing environment, nutrition, health and economic development. The H's are all explained in the group's credo recited at all meetings.
"I pledge my head to clearer thinking, my heart to greater loyalty, my hands to greater service and my health to better living for my club, my community, my country and the world."
"In the pigeon watch project, the idea is for the kids to learn not only about science but to develop all sorts of skills and confidence as they become involved," Ms. Benjamin said. "Some of the older ones will be taking photographs, writing reports, doing statistical analysis, and some of them will be going to Cornell for meetings. Not all the children are fully aware of what research means and for the youngest ones its mostly fun, but even they are learning."
And indeed the younger children were having fun. Five of them performed a pigeon dance, bobbing their necks, strutting and flapping their elbows like people in a Chicken Tonight ad. This display attracted the attention of some freelance youngsters who came by and listened attentively as Ms. Benjamin described different subspecies of pigeons -- the bluish-gray blue bar, black or white spreads, spotted checkers, reds, red bars and pied birds. The children drew and colored the various types and then ran off to lure flocks with bird seed.
Meanwhile, the Frazer brothers confided that they had been observing pigeons on their own for a year, particularly a group that lived under the elevated line near Kosciusko Street. Michael, who wants to be a marine biologist, said the reason that people seldom see baby pigeons was that the young grew quickly in the nest and when they left they looked much like adults. The nests, he said, are mostly in out-of-the-way places, and the mother and father birds both feed their young by forcing a liquid called pigeon milk from their own stomachs into the beaks of the young. "Like I said, they are really amazing but most people just never notice."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (69%); ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FOUR-H CLUBS CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (55%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOUR-H CLUBS CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (55%); CORNELL LABORATORY OF ORNITHOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (69%); ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIRDS; PIGEONS; URBAN AREAS; PIGEONS BIRDS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ORNITHOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (69%); FOUNDATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



122 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: With State Concessions, Pratt & Whitney Accepts Jobs Deal

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 4

 BODY:
Pratt & Whitney, Connecticut's largest private employer, said today that it had tentatively agreed not to move 2,300 jobs to plants out of state in return for a package of tax cuts and other incentives.
Company officials said their final decision would be contingent on the state legislature's approval of the package, worth $32 million a year, in the next few days, and on the company's unions agreeing to concessions of about the same amount, or about $2 an hour. 
 But in a state where job erosion in manufacturing has become a nearly constant worry, even a hedged commitment by a company so intimately identified with Connecticut was hailed as a major victory. Jubilant lawmakers said the legislation enabling the tax-credit plan would sail through the House and Senate with bipartisan support. Pratt & Whitney, based in East Hartford, employs 17,200 people making jet engines and parts in plants around the state.
 
'Keeps the Eagle Flying'
 "This keeps the eagle flying," said Senator John B. Larson, Democrat of East Hartford, referring to the company's symbol, familiar to generations of Connecticut residents.
The package, which state officials say would also benefit other companies in the state, includes some provisions that have already become law. The State Senate early this morning, for example, approved an overhaul of the workers compensation system, which Pratt & Whitney officials had said was wildly out of line with employer assessment rates in other states where it has plants, especially Maine and Georgia. Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. said he signed the measure, which could reduce employer contributions by perhaps 19 percent, an hour before the agreement was announced.
The main plank of the package is a system of tax credits to encourage research and development by Pratt & Whitney and other Connecticut companies, in return for their continued presence in the state. It works like this: If a company spends $200 million, for example, on research in the state, it can receive up to a 6 percent tax credit on that amount, spread out over three years. But if the company has moved more than 2 percent of its wage base out of state over that three-year period, it forfeits part of the credit.
 
Bill Being Drafted
 Aides to Mr. Weicker said the tax credit bill was still being drafted, and would be rushed to the legislature in time for passage before the mandated adjournment on Wednesday at midnight.
Pratt & Whitney, which is a unit of the Hartford-based United Technologies Corporation, had said that manufacturing costs the company an average of $6 to $8 an hour more in Connecticut than at its Maine and Georgia plants and that sharply reduced orders for jet engines had made the disparity intolerable.
Pratt's president, Karl Krapek, said today that the state package goes one-third of the way toward resolving such cost differences. Another one-third will have to come from employees, he said, while the remaining one-third will be made up in productivity gains.
He declined to comment on the status of talks between the company and its largest union, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, because he said both sides had agreed to keep silent. The chief negotiator for the union, Andrew D. Romegialli, could not be reached for comment.
 
Thousands Laid Off
 In recent years, Pratt has laid off thousands of workers in the state. After each reduction, company officials assured the remaining workers and state officials that, at last, the right level of costs and employment had been reached. Mr. Romegialli, along with some members of the legislature, has expressed deep cynicism in recent weeks that any package of concessions would foster a long-term commitment by a company with international ties and demanding shareholders.
But even if the legislature fails to pass the package and the unions cannot reach a compromise, today's tentative agreement would still represent one of the state's most aggressive and ambitious efforts to make companies happy and productive here, an effort Mr. Weicker calls the "New Connecticut."
As part of that campaign, Mr. Weicker today announced that United Parcel Service would expand a sorting facility at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks into a $27 million regional hub that could eventually employ as many as 1,000 workers.
 
Grant for Training
 One provision of Pratt's package's would bestow a grant of up to $3 million a year over the next four years to train each of the company's production workers in kaizen, a Japanese approach to increase manufacturing efficiency.
In recent weeks, the Legislature passed other pro-business provisions that are included in the $32 million package, including a phased reduction of the corporate tax to 10 percent over the next four years, from the current 11.5 percent rate. Another bill introduced by Mr. Weicker -- still awaiting legislative action -- would give property tax exemptions for certain commercial aircraft based at Connecticut airports. Pratt & Whitney has its own private airport for test flights in East Hartford.
Mr. Weicker said the state would also establish a new program to aid manufacturers like Pratt in sending their workers back to school, by providing, in some instances, loan guarantees to assist in tuition costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (90%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY DIVISION OF UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP PRATT & WHITNEY (90%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRATT & WHITNEY DIVISION OF UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK JOHN LARSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



123 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Soars After Report Of Gains in Jobs Last Month

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar soared against leading European currencies yesterday as an unexpected surge in the May employment figures seemed to clear the way for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates.
The dollar advanced only modestly against the Japanese yen amid lingering worries about the American trade deficit. 
 Gold continued to rise. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery advanced $2.20 an ounce, to $376.80. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $376.30 an ounce, up $2.
Currency traders said the dollar jumped more than a pfennig against the German mark immediately after the Labor Department reported that nonfarm payroll jobs increased by 209,000 in May, exceeding many economists' estimates.
 
Interest Rates Climb
 The dollar climbed higher as the jobs report sent interest rates on short-term Treasury securities soaring, which in turn lured more investors to dollar-denominated financial instruments and bolstered the demand for dollars.
"Clearly the stronger-than-expected jobs report gave the dollar a pyschological boost going into the weekend," said Lisa Finstrom, a currency analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. The momentum could help the dollar rise above the 1.6300-mark level next week, the upper end of its recent range, she said.
But, she said, "whether or not the dollar will be able to extend these gains will depend on the state of U.S. data" in coming weeks.
The dollar's gains were particularly pronounced against the British pound, which lost more than 3 cents in heavy trading.
Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer at Bank Leumi Trust, traced some of the move to reports that British Telecom was selling pounds and buying dollars as part of its $4.3 billion investment to buy 20 percent of MCI as part of a global communications alliance.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.5250, from $1.5425 late Thursday. By 4 P.M. in New York, the pound was worth $1.5090, sharply less than $1.5438 late Thursday.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 107.26 yen, down 0.61 yen from the Thursday close. Later in London, it rose to 107.85 yen. By 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar was worth 107.75 yen, compared with 107.25 yen late Thursday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Thursday, included: 1.6260 German marks, up from 1.6003; 1.4635 Swiss francs, up from 1.4300; 5.4770 French francs, up from 5.3920; 1,479.50 Italian lire, up from 1,460.00, and 1.2795 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2753.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $376.25 an ounce, from $374.25 late Thursday. In Zurich, gold rose to $376.25 an ounce, from $374.15 late Thursday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose $4.23 to close at a bid $373.05.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (73%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (73%); SWITZERLAND (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



124 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Summer Buying Sprees Could Lift Retail Stocks

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:
AS summer approaches, Wall Street is preparing a favorable forecast for the stocks of many retailing companies.
The message is simple: after a long dry spell, customers may finally be ready to open their wallets, and retailers are poised to benefit from increased sales. As retail specialists see it, sales momentum will lead to higher earnings and to rising stock prices for selected companies. 
 That scenario would be a major reversal of fortune. Retail sales have been lackluster this year, as evidenced by the May reports that poured forth on Thursday. Earnings for the first quarter -- for most big retailers, that means the February-April period -- have been disappointing, and stock prices of department store companies plummeted at the end of April before recovering last month.
"On average, these stocks declined about 20 percent from their 52-week highs last December to May, and we think they'll gain 20 percent by the end of summer," said Wayne Hood, first vice president and senior retail analyst at Prudential Securities.
The reasons for this optimism, at least for the short term, are varied. On a year-to-year basis, retail volume should be up sharply in coming weeks, since the summer of 1992 was unseasonably cool and wet -- causing apparel sales to fall below retailers' projections. Housing sales are likely to be higher in the months immediately ahead than they were in the cold winter and spring, which would certainly benefit furniture and appliance merchants. In addition, if Congress passes a tax bill before adjourning for the summer, much of the consumer uncertainty over the law's effect on disposable income would disappear and spending might very well turn upward.
Also, just a few days ago, the Commerce Department reported a jump in personal consumption of 1 percent in April, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $4.28 trillion. That increase was the largest in the last six months.
"This is not a bad time to invest in retail stocks," said Kurt Barnard, a New York retailing consultant. "But you have to select them very carefully. Generally speaking, stores presenting a large array of merchandise with moderate price tags will do the best."
With this kind of discriminating eye, some Wall Street analysts have tempered their praise for a number of retailers that have been success stories in recent years, like the Limited Inc., Gap Inc., Wal-Mart Stores and the Dayton Hudson Corporation. After reporting disappointing sales this week, Dayton Hudson watched its stock plummet $3.25 on Thursday to close at $66.125 and lose an additional 37.5 cents yesterday, to $65.75. Shares of Wal-Mart, which reported a rise in May same-store sales below the double-digit increases of past years, declined Thursday and yesterday.
 Much of the analysts' attention has shifted to lesser-known specialty stores. But just as shoppers have strong merchandise preferences, so do stock pickers.
Mr. Hood of Prudential upgraded his ratings last month from hold to buy on nine major retailing corporations, including May Department Stores, Dillard Department Stores and Nordstrom.
Edward Antoian, a portfolio manager for the Delaware Management Company, which manages institutional money and runs mutual funds, is concentrating on stores that are "quality oriented and conscious of value for the dollar." Among his favorites are Value City Department Stores, an off-price chain; Costco Wholesale Club, a membership warehouse, and Consolidated Stores, a retailer of close-out merchandise.
Another believer in the potential of price-conscious retailers is Edward Johnson, director of the Johnson Redbook Service, a market report on the retailing business. His list of recommendations includes household names in the discount-store category like Bradlees, Caldor and Venture Stores, which he expects to have earnings improvement and good price appreciation.
An eclectic group of specialty retailers tops Mr. Barnard's list. He favors, among others, Circuit City Stores, an electronics chain that recently announced plans to enter the used car business, and Bed, Bath & Beyond, which he expects to prosper because "the home is once again becoming a center of family life."
Still another category with above-average prospects is the catalogue business, in the opinion of Walter Loeb, publisher of the Loeb Retail Letter. Noting that "Sears abdicated this business earlier this year," he thinks other companies in the marketing-by-mail category can move to fill the void, citing Spiegel and Lands' End as catalogue merchandisers with outstanding prospects for growth in the current retailing environment.
Even if the upbeat forecasts for the summer months prove to be accurate, investors in retail stocks will have to be nimble later this year. The all-important Christmas sales season will be measured against a spending surge that made the 1992 fourth quarter the best for retailers in the last four years, according to the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
"I think we're O.K. through September or October," Mr. Antoian of Delaware Management said. "After that, we'd better see an increase in consumer confidence if we're going to have a strong Christmas."
If confidence continues to languish and consumers appear hesitant to spend late this year, individual investors may want to follow Mr. Antoian's lead. "We'll probably be exiting the retail stocks," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph "Bouncing Back" shows S.&P. index of department stores and the S.&P. weekly. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (85%); LTD (NYSE) (80%); GPS (NYSE) (62%); WMT (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (80%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (62%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (62%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (85%); L BRANDS INC (80%); GAP INC (62%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS (CORPORATE); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); TAX LAW (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (63%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



125 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: RETIREMENT PLANNING;
Step Up Savings Goals, Pension Experts Urge

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
MOST working Americans desperately need to increase their retirement savings, benefits consultants say. Increased longevity and low interest rates are the primary reasons, but provisions of President Clinton's economic package create a new sense of urgency.
"Don't wait until a tax bill is signed" to review retirement savings, said Alan Glickstein, a partner in Kwasha Lipton, benefit consultants based in Fort Lee, N.J. 
 Although much uncertainty remains about the President's plan in Congress, "no one doubts that tax rates for individuals are going up," he said, and that a greater portion of Social Security benefits will be taxed. As a result, people will need a higher pretax retirement income than they may have projected even a few months ago.
For highly compensated employees, the House-passed version packs another punch: no more than $150,000 of salary can be recognized for pension, 401(k), profit-sharing and similar tax-deferred plans. That is down from $235,840 this year, and it means "you need to be socking away more on your own," Mr. Glickstein said.
How much should people be saving?
Andrew E. Zuckerman, director of employee benefits with the Washington office of the consulting firm Grant Thornton, said: "You need 80 percent of your preretirement income at the date of retirement to maintain your standard of living. You may not need it the day you retire, but in 10, 15 or 20 years you will."
In a recent survey by his firm of nearly 1,500 midsized companies, executives estimated they would need 50 to 60 percent of preretirement income, an indication that people are not saving enough, Mr. Zuckerman said.
To make personal projections, people need to estimate how much they will receive from employer-sponsored pension plans, Social Security and personal savings. Then, they need to project a retirement date and presumed earnings at that date, factoring in inflation, and see how their projected retirement income stands up.
The calculations may sound daunting, but help is available.
Howard Johnson & Company, Seattle-based benefit and compensation consultants and actuaries, offers assistance for such clients as Montgomery Ward, MGM Grand, Microsoft and Intel through its own computer program called Multiplan.
Employees at client companies are given customized diskettes to make their own insurance and savings choices in flexible benefit plans, make projections and play "what if" games. What if I save $50 a month more in the 401(k) plan? How much more will I receive if I retire in 20 years?
"Employees can construct a flex plan interactively," said Mr. Johnson, founder of the firm that bears his name. If employees decide to switch money in the 401(k) plan from one investment to another, they can do so immediately. At many companies, employees must visit the human resources office to change allocations, which may take weeks.
Increasingly, companies are turning away from defined-benefit retirement plans in favor of defined-contribution and 401(k) plans, which means employees are having to shoulder far greater responsibility for their retirement savings than did their parents' generation. For individuals, Mr. Zuckerman recommends Quicken, the personal computer software, to project retirement savings and create a budget.
"The new benefits programs offer significant opportunities to accumulate a supplemental nest egg," said Mr. Glickstein of Kwasha Lipton, but many employees are not participating at all or are being overly conservative in their investment choices.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Multiple Choices" shows types of retirement plans at midsized companies. (Grant Thornton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD JOHNSON & CO (63%); KWASHA LIPTON (57%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); INTEL CORP (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS; SAVINGS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA); RETIREMENT PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



126 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Under the Umbrella
 
Q. What is meant by umbrella insurance?
 KEITH BALDWIN, Middletown, N.J.
 
A. If you are sued as a result of an accident involving your car or your home, liability insurance included in your auto and home policies will offer some protection. But this liability insurance usually has upper limits, typically $300,000. 
 "If people have assets with a total value that greatly exceeds $300,000, they should consider buying additional liability insurance in the form of an umbrella policy," said Sean F. Mooney, senior vice president and economist of the Insurance Information Institute. "It comes into play only when the other coverages are exhausted." Thus if you have an accident resulting in a $500,000 judgment with $300,000 of standard liability insurance and $1 million of umbrella coverage on top of it, the standard policy would pay up to the limits and the umbrella policy would pay the remaining $200,000.
Many insurance companies require that both your home and your car be insured with them before they will sell you umbrella coverage. A $1 million umbrella insurance policy costs about $200 a year.
 
Certificates of Participation
 
Q. I've heard of certificates of participation. What are they?
 MYLES FOX, Manhattan
 
A. Certificates of participation are used by state and local governments for financing property and equipment. Investors who buy these certificates -- which often receive a rating from a credit rating agency and are usually issued in denominations of $5,000 or multiples of $5,000 -- are entitled to receive a participation, or share, in the lease payments from a particular project.
"Lease payments are passed through the lessor to the certificate holders with the tax advantages intact," said Heather L. Ruth, president of the Public Securities Association. The way it normally works is that the lessor assigns the lease and lease payments to a trustee, which distributes the payments to the owners of the certificates."
 
Kiddie Tax
 
I have two small sons who are earning interest on investments. Do they have to pay taxes on this interest or do I have to pay taxes for them?
 JON SPAET, Manhattan
 
A. Children under the age of 14 who have investment income this year of under $1,200 are taxed at their own rate. If their investment income is larger, they are taxed at their parents' rate when it is higher than their own, under a portion of the law known as the Kiddie Tax.
Children over the age of 14 pay tax at their normal rate. Included under the investment income category are interest, dividends and capital gains from the sale of securities.
"If certain criteria are met, parents can elect to include their child's investment income in the parents' tax return," said Harry J. Shlinger, tax partner of Weber Lipshie & Company. "However, if they are New York State residents, this irrevocable election can cause an additional state tax for the parent because the state standard deduction for the child is lost."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LIABILITY INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX LAW (86%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



127 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: The City Budget: Still Gimmicky

 BODY:
With a bow to reality, Mayor David Dinkins and his advisers have revised the New York City budget. They've deleted the worst examples of undue optimism and agreed to make deeper spending cuts. That's progress. But in what might be the administration's theme song, the revision doesn't go far enough. Like the first version, it relies too heavily on money that isn't likely to materialize, and on gimmicks that will raise money in the short run but cause pain down the road.
The Mayor's budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1 now anticipates $150 million in Federal aid instead of $250 million, though even the $150 million is not guaranteed; $55 million from the sale of the Offtrack Betting Corporation, though no sale has been arranged, and $215 million from borrowing against property tax delinquencies, which robs the future to collect cash now. 
 Even with the new cuts of about $300 million and a partial hiring freeze, experts say the budget gap could range from $400 million to $700 million. Presumably the Mayor and the City Council -- both up for re-election in the fall -- will balance the budget after the elections, assuming it's still out of whack. By law, the budget must be in balance. But closing gaps on short notice forces the use of even more gimmicks as well as the imposition of hurtful cuts driven by panic.
How did City Hall get itself into this fix in an election year? The economy didn't cooperate. Albany, particularly Gov. Mario Cuomo, didn't cooperate by providing more funds. Even worse, he suggested foolhardy ideas, like a fire sale of the land under the airports. Circumstances didn't cooperate -- storms and the World Trade Center bombing boosted overtime costs.
The city didn't get the help it expected from a Democratic Administration in Washington. Most important, Mayor Dinkins did not take advantage of bad times and impose the structural changes the city must make if it is ever to live within its means. The only escape from the perennial crunch is to embrace difficult policy changes, from property tax reform to productivity savings from workers and even greater cuts in the labor force.
The administration has reduced the work force from a high of 225,000 to about 212,000, and made some management reforms. But it hasn't done nearly enough, and it hasn't won significant concessions from the unions. A state takeover of Medicaid would provide significant help, but State Senate Republicans balked and the Governor didn't work hard enough to move them.
Now, unfortunately, is not the time to make those reforms. Last-minute budget haggling cannot solve the city's fundamental budget imbalance -- the "permanent deficit" recently spotlighted by private members of the Financial Control Board. But it is not too late to make more service and staff cuts. Delaying tough decisions until the fall may be smart campaign politics, but it will not get the city anywhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR FORCE (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); TAX REFORM (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MEDICAID (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); OVERTIME (62%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



128 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Worries Europe

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis; Flora Lewis is Senior Columnist of The New York Times.

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
President Clinton's rocky start and sharply dipping polls are beginning to cause serious concern abroad.
Nobody cares how much he pays for a haircut or who charters planes for the White House press. But if what Europeans see as trivia is undermining his Presidency, they worry. They have watched waffling on Bosnia, the need to twist the arms of a Democratic-controlled Congress for a narrow endorsement of the budget, the withdrawal of a Justice Department nominee whom Mr. Clinton might have known was unacceptable and the arrival of David Gergen, a former opposition spokesman, to be the voice of a tongue-tied White House. 
 Mr. Clinton hasn't been overseas yet, and people feel they don't know much about him, despite pleasant reports from foreign leaders who have gone to call on him.
But for America's partners, whether the President should be admired or scorned is less important than whether he speaks clearly for his country and his leadership makes the U.S. seem reliable and predictable.
Richard Nixon was respected even at the height of Watergate. Ronald Reagan was mocked as a cowboy. Jimmy Carter and George Bush had odd mannerisms to the foreign eye. But when they said where the U.S. stood, there it stood, like it or not, and that was reassuring.
The spectacle of a President not quite in charge troubles Europeans even more now than it did during the cold war. "Europeans feel orphaned," a French analyst said. "Not only the Soviet menace is gone as a mobilizer but so is our protector against the menace. We had a secret hope the Americans would lead us in the new era, even if we complained about the pretensions of a lonely superpower. Now there's a sense of emptiness."
Secretary of State Warren Christopher did just what the Europeans have long said they wanted the U.S. to do during his mission in May to consult about the war in the former Yugoslavia. He listened, he proposed, but he didn't insist. He sought consensus -- and it turned out to be unnerving, as if Washington were deliberately, even maliciously, out to demonstrate that the Europeans still couldn't get their act together.
There is nothing new about contradictory European grumbling that the U.S. is too much of a demanding Big Brother or not enough of an assertive leader. But the grumbling is exacerbated now by the painfully acknowledged fact that Europe isn't developing the political cohesion expected with the Maastricht treaty; it feels in danger of unraveling at a time of new and perplexing challenges and weak, uncertain governments.
Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff's statement that U.S. "economic interests are paramount" nowadays and that U.S. commitments abroad may soon be reduced rang ominously true. The European Community's decision to buttress reforms in its agricultural policy so as to avert the threat of a French veto and to ease agreement with the U.S. on the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade may well have been prodded by recognition that the warning has to be taken seriously.
There are no real complaints about Mr. Clinton's policies so far, even on Bosnia, although there was probably as much disappointment as relief that he didn't decide to drag the Europeans into a much more forceful intervention. Polls show 55 percent of people in the Community favor a military attempt to stop the fighting, but the unspoken condition is that the U.S. take the initiative, as in the gulf war. Some people ask, uneasily, what Mr. Clinton would have done if Iraq had invaded Kuwait after his inauguration.
The push on aid to Russia is basically welcomed, as is reactivation of the Middle East talks. And Europeans believe Clinton's plans to reinvigorate the U.S. economy and cut the deficit are in their interest, too.
What is bothersome is the odor of weakness coming from Washington. There is a suspicion that whether it is fair or unfair, the barrage of attacks on the Administration from the Washington media means that those close observers sense in the White House a fragility and a lack of solid support that translate into uncertain power.
Unlike Europe's parliamentary based leaders, the American President is sure to hold office for four years. Whatever he does, U.S. allies want him above all to keep a firm grip on that office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); FRANCE (54%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWIS, FLORA BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



129 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
The Rain In Spain Stays . . .

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER

 BODY:
Instructions for a President:
1. Know thyself. You may not have peaked too soon, but you have certainly peaked very young. A man elected President at age 46 will be a mere 54 when he loses the job. That's if he is lucky. If he is not, the best job he can ever have will be over and done with when he is 50. Nowadays 54 is young and 50 is very young.
2. Act on this self-knowledge. In short, this is the whole ball game, right here and right now. After this, all else will be small cheese unless you think spending the final 30 or 40 years of your life reading history's judgments will be tons of fun. You must do something to make the historians respect you. Quit dawdling and do it now. 
 3. Quit reading public-opinion polls. A year before George Bush was defeated, the polls showed he was unbeatable.
4. Quit reading the newspapers. Over recent years the press has acquired a vested interest in the failures of Presidencies. (Bad news sells better than good news.) As a result, press people now compete fiercely for the honor of having been the first to put the knife into the latest President. Why depress yourself?
5. Quit worrying about Ross Perot. Trying to humor people like Perot only increases their contempt for you and their admiration for themselves. Perot may possess nobility of spirit inconceivable to Machiavelli, but that's not the way to bet it. Chances are, his aim is to show himself off as a better President than you.
6. Quit appointing people who attended Yale Law School. Sure, it is a splendid law school, and you and Mrs. Clinton made many fine friends among its excellent graduates, but it is bad news politically, and has been ever since it hit the TV screen during the melodrama about Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill. In politics as in life there are some things that are so obviously jinxed that smart people avoid them for no defensible reason. The Yale Law School is one.
7. Cut out the talk about "moving to the center." No two people agree on where the center is. As a result, half your critics will say you've moved all the way over to the right of center and the other half will say you've stayed far to the left of center. Outside the Beltway the audience for this kind of talk is slightly smaller than the audience for a lecture on the origins of the Peloponnesian War.
8. Quit doing George Bush's things. Moving to the center was George Bush's thing. He moved there from the Reagan right, and the righties hated him, which would have been all right if he had been able to hold the lefties and the centries. (Centries, people who hover around the center without giving it a thought, are not to be confused with centrists, a tiny group of intellectual heavyweights occupying the narrow zone between Zbigniew Brzezinski and Henry Kissinger and rarely seen outside Washington newspaper columns.) Bush moved to the center and the voters retired him. A new President should assume the voters want him to move somewhere different.
9. Remember the vision thing. George Bush made it sound like something he didn't take seriously. This is already being said of your campaign promises. Pick at least one thing to stand for with iron determination, and say, "Just like a tree that's planted by the river, I shall not be moved." Americans like the idea of a vision thing guiding their destinies. That's why reading the Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of July still stirs our juices. You can't abandon campaign promises galore without making people think, "Jefferson he ain't." Stand for something. Just one thing. One thing you're ready to fight and die for. Phone whoever composed the immortal line "the economy, stupid," and beg for help.
10. Remember Harry Truman. When he left office, he was abused and ridiculed as a failed haberdasher too small for the Presidency. Most people have forgotten that. Nowadays he is a political giant of such grandeur that even campaigning Republicans claim to have Trumanian blood flowing in their veins. Truman knew who he was. He trusted his own knowledge of American life, the value of his own judgment and the men he brought to the White House to advise him. Bring in advisers as wise and clever as Marshall, Acheson, Harriman et al. Listen. Know thyself (see Point 1), be thyself, stand for something. Age 50 is closer than you think, but meanwhile you are still the boss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); HISTORY (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



130 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
G.E. PLANNING TO ADD TO COST-CUTTING MOVES

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The General Electric Company may cut another 1,000 jobs from its embattled aircraft engines division and abandon the largest building in its manufacturing complex in Evendale, Ohio, near Cincinnati, according to a report in The Cincinnati Enquirer. In its report, the newspaper said an internal G.E. cost-cutting study had recommended moving final engine assembly operations to other plants in Kansas and North Carolina. The moves could eliminate another 1,000 jobs in the Cincinnati area, on top of the 2,500 hourly and salaried positions the company cut in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CINCINNATI (OHIO); EVERDALE (OHIO) UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); AIRLINES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1993



131 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 54; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: A Noteworthy Collection

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
This selection of paperbacks is from the New & Noteworthy column since the 1992 Christmas issue.
ALIEN INK: The F.B.I.'s War on Freedom of Expression
By Natalie Robins. Rutgers University, $14.95.
J. Edgar Hoover's investigation of American writers. 

ALMANAC OF THE DEAD
By Leslie Marmon Silko. Penguin, $13.
A novel of memory and of Native American peoples.
AMERICAN NERVOUSNESS, 1903: An Anecdotal History
By Tom Lutz. Cornell University, $14.95.
How nervous disorders became the American malaise.
ANNE SEXTON: A BIOGRAPHY
By Diane Wood Middlebrook. Vintage, $14.
The life and death of a gifted and troubled poet.
AT WEDDINGS AND WAKES
By Alice McDermott. Dell, $5.99.
A novel of three generations of an Irish Catholic family.
BARCELONA
By Robert Hughes. Vintage, $14.
An art critic's generous paean to the city.
BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA
By Dorothy Allison. Plume, $10.
A novel in the voice of an abused 13-year-old girl.
BEYOND THE CURVE
By Kobo Abe. Translated by Juliet Winters Carpenter. Kodansha International, $8.
Surreal short stories by the late Japanese author.
BILLIE DYER AND OTHER STORIES
By William Maxwell. Plume, $8.
Fiction about the Midwest by a former editor of The New Yorker.
BLACK WATER
By Joyce Carol Oates. Plume, $8.
A novel inspired by the accident at Chappaquiddick.
CAMBRIDGE
By Caryl Phillips. Vintage International, $10.
A novel, set in the 19th century, about the lives of a plantation owner's daughter and a slave.
CAPITOL GAMES: The Inside Story of Clarence Thomas, Anita Hill, and a Supreme Court Nomination
By Timothy M. Phelps and Helen Winternitz. Harper Perennial, $14.
An overview of the confirmation of Justice Thomas.
A CASE OF CURIOSITIES
By Allen Kurzweil. Ballantine, $10.
The Enlightenment as experienced by a watchmaker.
CELIA: A SLAVE
By Melton A. McLaurin. Avon, $10.
The true story of a slave who murdered the master who had forced her into sexual servitude.
CHILDHOOD: A Multicultural View
By Melvin Konner. Little, Brown, $15.95.
A medical anthropologist discusses childhood.
CHINA IN OUR TIME: The People of China From the Communist Victory to Tiananmen Square and Beyond
By Ross Terrill. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.
A history and analysis of the Chinese character.
A CLOSED EYE
By Anita Brookner. Vintage Contemporaries, $11.
A novel about four women linked by love and betrayal.
COMING INTO THE END ZONE: A Memoir
By Doris Grumbach. Norton, $9.95.
A novelist's reflections on turning 70.
COMPLETE COLLECTED STORIES
By V. S. Pritchett. Vintage International, $20.
Eighty-two stories by a master of short fiction.
THE CULTURE OF CONTENTMENT
By John Kenneth Galbraith. Houghton Mifflin, $9.95.
A noted economist's analysis of Republican policies.
THE DESTRUCTIVE WAR: William Tecumseh Sherman, Stonewall Jackson, and the Americans
By Charles Royster. Vintage Civil War Library, $15.
How these generals helped shape the Civil War.
THE DISUNITING OF AMERICA:
Reflections on a Multicultural Society
By Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. Norton, $7.95.
An examination of education and "political correctness."
THE DIVINE SARAH: A Life of Sarah Bernhardt
By Arthur Gold and Robert Fizdale. Vintage, $17.
The great heroine of the theater, onstage and off.
EAGLE ON THE STREET: Based on the Pulitzer Prize-Winning Account of the SEC's Battle With Wall Street
By David A. Vise and Steve Coll. Collier/Macmillan, $14.
Policing Wall Street during the 1980's boom.
EARTH IN THE BALANCE: Ecology and the Human Spirit
By Al Gore. Plume, $13.
The Vice President's essay on the environment.
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT: Volume One, 1884-1933
By Blanche Wiesen Cook. Penguin, $14.
How personal betrayal led this First Lady to activism.
ELIZABETH I
By Anne Somerset. St. Martin's, $14.95.
Extolling the glory of Good Queen Bess.
ENCOUNTERING MARY:
Visions of Mary From La Salette to Medjugorje
By Sandra L. Zimdars-Swartz. Avon, $12.
The cultural impact of sightings of the Virgin Mary.
THE FAMILY ROMANCE OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
By Lynn Hunt. University of California, $12.
The French Revolution as Oedipal drama.
FORTUNATE LIVES
By Robb Forman Dew. Harper Perennial, $10.
Fiction about the effect of a child's death on a family.
FORTUNATE SON: The Autobiography of Lewis B. Puller Jr.
Bantam, $5.99.
A Vietnam veteran's Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir of his recovery from devastating trauma.
FRANK CAPRA: The Catastrophe of Success
By Joseph McBride. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $16.
Why it wasn't such a wonderful life.
A FULL SERVICE BANK: How BCCI Stole Billions Around the World
By James Ring Adams and Douglas Frantz. Pocket Books, $10.
All about the global crimes of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
THE GIRLS IN THE BALCONY: Women, Men and The New York Times
By Nan Robertson. Fawcett Columbine, $10.
The women behind the 1974 sex-discrimination lawsuit.
GEORGE CUKOR: A DOUBLE LIFE.
A Biography of the Gentleman Director
By Patrick McGilligan. Harper Perennial, $13.
The two worlds of the great Hollywood director.
GOETHE: THE POET AND THE AGE.
Volume 1: The Poetry of Desire (1749-1790)
By Nicholas Boyle. Oxford University, $17.95.
Goethe's early years as a multifaceted genius.
HIGH COTTON
By Darryl Pinckney. Penguin, $11.
A novel of a young black man's search for identity.
HIGH GROUND
By John McGahern. Penguin, $10.
Short stories by a contemporary Irish master.
HOLOCAUST TESTIMONIES: The Ruins of Memory
By Lawrence L. Langer. Yale University, $13.
How the Nazi horror shaped its survivors' memories.
HUMANS
By Donald E. Westlake. Mysterious Press/Warner, $4.99.
A tragicomic novel in which God, fed up with humans, sends an angel to help them destroy themselves.
I'M DYSFUNCTIONAL, YOU'RE DYSFUNCTIONAL:
The Recovery Movement and Other Self-Help Fashions
By Wendy Kaminer. Vintage, $10.
A critical look at the rage for 12-step solutions.
IN THE LAND OF MEN
By Antonya Nelson. Avon, $8.
Short stories about emotional survivors.
A LANDING ON THE SUN
By Michael Frayn. Penguin, $10.
A novel in which a British Cabinet Office administrator investigates a death and the nature of happiness.
THE JAMESES: A Family Narrative
By R. W. B. Lewis. Anchor/Doubleday, $15.
William, Henry, Alice and their forebears.
JAZZ
By Toni Morrison. Plume, $10.
Fiction about love and murder in 1920's Harlem.
JEFFERSON DAVIS: The Man and His Hour
By William C. Davis. Harper Perennial, $18.
How the Confederate president staved off defeat.
KEEPING A RENDEZVOUS
By John Berger. Vintage International, $12.
Essays whose subjects range from fine art to the metaphysical implications of cleaning an outhouse.
LANDSCAPE TURNED RED: The Battle of Antietam
By Stephen W. Sears. Ticknor & Fields, $12.95.
A pivotal Civil War battle, and America's bloodiest.
THE LOST UPLAND
By W. S. Merwin. Owl/Henry Holt, $14.95.
An eminent poet's fictional homage to the Dordogne region of France.
MAKING HISTORY. The Struggle for Gay and Lesbian Equal Rights, 1945-1990: An Oral History
By Eric Marcus. Harper Perennial, $14.
Interviews with 45 men and women activists.
MERCHANTS OF DEBT:
KKR and the Mortgaging of American Business
By George Anders. Basic Books, $12.
An analysis of leveraged buyouts and how Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts made them happen.
THE MIND'S SKY: Human Intelligence in a Cosmic Context
By Timothy Ferris. Bantam, $13.95.
The link between mind and matter in the universe.
THE MISMEASURE OF WOMAN
By Carol Tavris. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.
How social research fallaciously compares the sexes.
THE NEW EMPERORS: China in the Era of Mao and Deng
By Harrison E. Salisbury. Avon, $12.50.
The personalities who created Confucian Leninism.
ORDINARY MEN: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland
By Christopher R. Browning. Aaron Asher/HarperCollins, $11.
How average men became agents of the Holocaust.
OUTERBRIDGE REACH
By Robert Stone. Harper Perennial, $12.
A novel about a round-the-world yacht race, in which a man puts his life and marriage on the line.
THE OVERWORKED AMERICAN:
The Unexpected Decline of Leisure
By Juliet B. Schor. Basic Books, $12.
Why we work so much and play so little.
THE PATRIARCH: The Rise and Fall of the Bingham Dynasty
By Susan E. Tifft and Alex S. Jones. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.
The saga of journalism's Kentucky barons.
POSTCARDS
By E. Annie Proulx. Collier/Macmillan, $10.
A novel about the impact of a crime on a rural family.
PRODIGAL SON: Dancing for Balanchine in a World of Pain and Magic
By Edward Villella with Larry Kaplan. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.
How a working-class boy became a great star of ballet.
RACE: How Blacks and Whites Think and Feel About the American Obsession
By Studs Terkel. Anchor, $12.95.
An oral history of race relations in the United States.
THE RADICALISM OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
By Gordon S. Wood. Vintage, $15.
How far the Revolution really went.
SAGES AND DREAMERS:
Biblical, Talmudic, and Hasidic Portraits and Legends
By Elie Wiesel. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.
Exploring Judaism through the words of its teachers.
SALEM IS MY DWELLING PLACE:
A Life of Nathaniel Hawthorne
By Edwin Haviland Miller. University of Iowa, $16.95.
A look behind this American writer's great reserve.
SCAR LOVER
By Harry Crews. Touchstone/ Simon & Schuster, $10.
The fictional saga of a man tormented by guilt.
THE SCRAMBLE FOR AFRICA: White Man's Conquest of the Dark Continent From 1876 to 1912
By Thomas Pakenham. Avon, $16
How European nations despoiled Africa.
THE SHRINE AT ALTAMIRA
By John L'Heureux. Penguin, $10.
A novel exploring the emotions behind a hideous act of child abuse.
SUGAR STREET: The Cairo Trilogy III
By Naguib Mahfouz. Translated by William Maynard Hutchins and Angele Botros Samaan. Anchor/Doubleday, $11.
The Nobel laureate's conclusion to the saga of a family.
TALKING IT OVER
By Julian Barnes. Vintage International, $11.
A romantic triangle, narrated by its parties.
THE TAX INSPECTOR
By Peter Carey. Vintage International, $11.
A novel in which a pregnant tax inspector wreaks havoc on a family of eccentric Australians.
THE THIRTEEN-GUN SALUTE
By Patrick O'Brian. Norton, $9.95.
Fiction about the British Navy battling Napoleon.
TROPICAL NIGHT FALLING
By Manuel Puig. Translated by Suzanne Jill Levine. Norton, $8.95.
The Argentine author's last novel, a look at the lives of two elderly sisters and their neighbors.
TRUMAN
By David McCullough. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $15.
An examination of a President's singular character.
TURTLE MOON
By Alice Hoffman. Berkley, $5.99.
A novel about a single mother, her troubled son and a guilt-ridden policeman.
VERY OLD BONES
By William Kennedy. Penguin, $10.
More fiction about the Phelan family of Albany.
VIOLENCE
By Richard Bausch. Vintage Contemporaries, $11.
A novel exploring the nature of violence through the experience of one of its victims.
VLADIMIR NABOKOV: The Russian Years, and VLADIMIR NABOKOV: The American Years
By Brian Boyd. Princeton University, $15.95 and $16.95, respectively.
Biographical volumes showing Nabokov's influences.
WAITING TO EXHALE
By Terry McMillan. Pocket Star, $5.99.
A novel about four black women in Phoenix.
WILDERNESS TIPS
By Margaret Atwood. Bantam, $6.99.
Short stories about men and women's private fictions.
WISE CHILDREN
By Angela Carter. Penguin, $10.
The author's last novel, the story of the irrepressible illegitimate twin daughters of a classical actor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (53%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); MURDER (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (61%); NATIVE AMERICANS (57%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



132 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 10420 words

HEADLINE: Books for Vacation Reading

 BODY:

Art, Music & Popular Culture
THE ART OF CELEBRATION: Twentieth-Century Painting, Literature, Sculpture, Photography, and Jazz. By Alfred Appel Jr. (Knopf, $35.) Modern times aren't all Eliot and Kafka, the author cheerfully argues; there's also Matisse, Astaire, Chaplin, Teddy Wilson and a whole raft of dedicated life affirmers. 
 ATGET'S SEVEN ALBUMS. By Molly Nesbit. (Yale University, $55.) A scholar finds political commitment and self-conscious intentions in the work of the Paris photographer who has been interpreted as a primitive.
BLACK AND BLUE: The Life and Lyrics of Andy Razaf. By Barry Singer. Foreword by Bobby Short. (Schirmer, $28.) An important, atmospheric biography of the lyricist who wrote "Ain't Misbehavin'," "Honeysuckle Rose" and "Stompin' at the Savoy."
CHAUTAUQUA SUMMER: Adventures of a Late-Twentieth-Century Vaudevillian. By Rebecca Chace. (Harcourt Brace, $21.95.) An amusing, intimate account of a season with the Flying Karamazov Brothers on their annual vaudeville circuit.
CHRISTEN KOBKE. By Sanford Schwartz. (Timken, $35.) Mr. Schwartz's portrait, the first English book-length study of the Danish painter known for his small, quiet landscapes, is conversational, affectionate and discerning.
THE COLLECTED WRITINGS OF ROBERT MOTHERWELL. Edited by Stephanie Terenzio. (Oxford University, $39.95.) Essays, observations and pronouncements by the most articulate member of the New York School of painters, illuminating the ambitions and the ethos of the Abstract Expressionist movement.
CORNELL CAPA: Photographs. Edited by Cornell Capa and Richard Whelan. (Bulfinch/Little, Brown, $60.) Pictures that certify Mr. Capa's statement of his aims: to show "human beings, their lives, their habitats, their behavior and their relationships."
CUT WITH THE KITCHEN KNIFE: The Weimar Photomontages of Hannah Hoch. By Maud Lavin. (Yale University, $40.) An account of the work of the avant-garde artist that illuminates new definitions of femininity and sexual roles in Weimar Germany.
DANCING: The Pleasure, Power, and Art of Movement. By Gerald Jonas. (Abrams in association with Thirteen/WNET, $45.) A lavishly produced cross-cultural history of dance worldwide, companion volume to a public television series.
DESIGN, FORM, AND CHAOS. By Paul Rand. (Yale University, $45.) In this collection of essays by the pre-eminent statesman of graphic design, Mr. Rand compares his own beautiful forms with the duds of the day.
THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA. By Saul Steinberg. (Knopf, $50.) The first book-length collection in 14 years by a great and greatly intelligent artist, who came to this country in 1942 and whose vision of America has lately become tougher, grittier, darker.
FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT: COLLECTED WRITINGS. Volume 1: 1894-1930. Volume 2: 1930-1932. Edited by Bruce Brooks Pfeiffer. (Rizzoli, cloth, $60 each; paper, $40 each.) The start of a projected six-volume edition of the architect's literary output; the collection's star so far is the 1932 version of "An Autobiography."
MAGRITTE: The Silence of the World. By David Sylvester. (Menil Foundation/Abrams, $75.) This authoritative, deliberate, insightful overview of Magritte's life and art, by an English art historian, is beautifully illustrated as well.
THE MAN IN THE BOWLER HAT: His History and Iconography. By Fred Miller Robinson. (University of North Carolina, $24.95.) An ironic look at the cheerless trademark of modernism -- as worn by Oscar Wilde, Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy and Magritte's anonymous men.
NEW YORK, NEW YORK: How the Apartment House Transformed the Life of the City (1869-1930). By Elizabeth Hawes. (Knopf, $30.) The author asks what makes Manhattan so different, so European, so un-American, and decides that it is vertical, high-rise living.
PUSH COMES TO SHOVE: An Autobiography. By Twyla Tharp. (Linda Grey/Bantam, $24.50.) A mix of the dead serious with deadpan farce, suffering with glory, much like her own dances.
THE QUEEN'S THROAT: Opera, Homosexuality, and the Mystery of Desire. By Wayne Koestenbaum. (Poseidon, $22.) A dazzling, high-spirited anatomy of the "opera queen," the homosexual fan for whom opera is a passion and an obsession.
THE THEATRICAL NOTEBOOKS OF SAMUEL BECKETT. General editor, James Knowlson. Volume 2: ENDGAME. Edited by S. E. Gontarski. Volume 3: KRAPP'S LAST TAPE. Edited by James Knowlson. (Grove Press, $75 each.) Beckett's deliberative method and concern for structure come through vividly in these working notebooks. We're still waiting for "Godot," the first volume of the series.
TO GIVE THEM LIGHT: The Legacy of Roman Vishniac. Edited by Marion Wiesel. (Simon & Schuster, $45.) The sting of the nearly 140 black-and-white photographs of Eastern European Jews in this book, which Vishniac took secretly between 1936 and 1938 to warn the world of the Jews' future doom, is that they are so understated -- portraits of ordinary lives that would soon be no more.
TRAGIC MUSE: Rachel of the Comedie-Francaise. By Rachel M. Brownstein. (Knopf, $30.) A discerning, insightful analysis of the life of the Alsatian waif Rachel Felix, who dominated French theater and much of French society in the mid-19th century.
WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT? An Autobiography. By Michael Caine. (Turtle Bay, $24.) From the charity wing of a London hospital to "Alfie" and Prince Andrew's wedding, Mr. Caine presents, in his own words, his fun-loving, robustly philistine self.

Biography & Autobiography
ALWAYS RUNNING. La Vida Loca: Gang Days in L.A. By Luis J. Rodriguez. (Curbstone, $19.95.) A chilling, unblinking testimony of the poet's life in the 1960's, when he was running with gangs in East Los Angeles and the San Gabriel Valley.
ANNA: A Daughter's Life. By William Loizeaux. (Arcade, $19.95.) This memorial to the author's daughter, who died in infancy, tracks the process of becoming a parent and of bereavement with an honesty that has no fear of pathos or embarrassment.
ANTHONY TROLLOPE. By Victoria Glendinning. (Knopf, $30.) A smart and winning biography, stuffed with details that come from knowing all Trollope's work and taking the Victorians seriously.
CHARLES SANDERS PEIRCE: A Life. By Joseph Brent. (Indiana University, $35.) A biography of a great American thinker that not only renders the thought but explains the disastrous life.
CURRICULUM VITAE: Autobiography. By Muriel Spark. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.95.) The straight facts of a life sufficiently courageous but quite unlike, thank goodness, the eccentric, elegant, mystifying, desperate world of her novels.
DANIEL BOONE: The Life and Legend of an American Pioneer. By John Mack Faragher. (Holt, $27.50.) A fine biography, based on the best eyewitness accounts and voluminous secondary material, of the man who led the first white settlers into Kentucky in 1775.
THE DEVIL AT LARGE: Erica Jong on Henry Miller. By Erica Jong. (Turtle Bay, $23.) Too short for a biography, not intimate enough for a memoir, this is Ms. Jong's grab bag of jottings about the man who, at the age of 82, saw a resemblance between his own "Tropic of Cancer" and her "Fear of Flying."
DIDEROT: A Critical Biography. By P. N. Furbank. (Knopf, $30.) Twenty years after Arthur M. Wilson's classic biography, Mr. Furbank takes up Diderot's life again and shows us, engagingly, why of all the 18th-century demigods he is the most humane and modern.
DREAM MAKERS, DREAM BREAKERS: The World of Justice Thurgood Marshall. By Carl T. Rowan. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A syndicated columnist's ahistorical account of the Supreme Court Justice who died this year at the age of 84.
ELIZABETH BISHOP: Life and the Memory of It. By Brett C. Millier. (University of California, $28.) A lucid and sympathetic, if at times scolding, work about the unhappy, troubled, proper woman who was once called "a poet's poet's poet."
FDR. Into the Storm 1937-1940: A History. By Kenneth S. Davis. (Random House, $35.) Mr. Davis's fourth and penultimate volume on Franklin D. Roosevelt casts him as a weak leader in his second Presidential term; the encyclopedic documentation is unmatched.
GERALD BRENAN. The Interior Castle: A Biography. By Jonathan Gathorne-Hardy. (Norton, $35.) An idiosyncratic life of the English writer remembered for his vivid books about Spain and his sexual entanglement with the Bloomsbury Group's Dora Carrington.
IL DUCE'S OTHER WOMAN. By Philip V. Cannistraro and Brian R. Sullivan. (Morrow, $25.) Margherita Sarfatti, rich, beautiful, Jewish and a member of many elites, took up with Mussolini for 19 years, even writing books about how wonderful he was. The authors' research on this self-made victim is deep and original.
KING OF THE CATS: The Life and Times of Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. By Wil Haygood. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $24.95.) A balanced and broad biography that has a sure feel for its flamboyant subject, who turned his power in a Harlem pulpit into political clout unfettered by loyalties.
LINCOLN: An Illustrated Biography. By Philip B. Kunhardt Jr., Philip B. Kunhardt 3d and Peter W. Kunhardt. (Knopf, $50.) Powerful images, mostly from the authors' family's archives, dominate this companion volume to ABC's Lincoln documentary.
LOITERING WITH INTENT: The Child. By Peter O'Toole. (Hyperion, $21.95.) The erratic memoir of a boy who escaped from the stench of a Yorkshire industrial slum into the stuffiness of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts.
THE MAN WHO WASN'T MAIGRET: A Portrait of Georges Simenon. By Patrick Marnham. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A thoughtful, convincing account of a man whose diligence -- 76 Maigret books, 117 other "serious" novels and more than 200 others -- makes his claim to have made love to 10,000 women seem plausible. After his mother died, he stopped writing. Odd.
MARLENE DIETRICH. By Maria Riva. (Knopf, $27.50.) Dietrich's only child tells all in a book that startles by its sharpness of remembrance while confirming and completing much that was already known about the disciplined, hard-working movie star.
THE PASSION OF MICHEL FOUCAULT. By James Miller. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) Neither a biography nor a survey but a narrative analysis of Foucault's quest to transcend the constructed realities of life through extreme sexual experiences.
REMEMBERING DENNY. By Calvin Trillin. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.) Though in the end Roger (Denny) Hansen remains elusive, Mr. Trillin's protest against the unfulfilled promise of an all-American guy who became an isolated crank and then took his own life is provocative.
A TASTE OF POWER: A Black Woman's Story. By Elaine Brown. (Pantheon, $25.) In 1974, Ms. Brown was appointed leader of the Black Panther Party; hence this chilling, entertaining account of a woman in a movement rich in nihilism, sexism and misogyny.
THIS I CANNOT FORGET: The Memoirs of Nikolai Bukharin's Widow. By Anna Larina. (Norton, $24.95.) After her husband's execution by Stalin in 1938, Ms. Larina survived more than 20 years in the gulag to write this lyrical memoir of a love that inspired her and of the doings of Bolshevism's inner circles.
THIS LITTLE LIGHT OF MINE: The Life of Fannie Lou Hamer. By Kay Mills. (Dutton, $24.) A full and riveting biography of the woman whose life, from 1962 until her death in 1977, was inseparable from the Mississippi civil rights movement.
 
Business & Economics
BEATING THE STREET: The Best-Selling Author of "One Up on Wall Street" Shows You How to Pick Winning Stocks and Develop a Strategy for Mutual Funds. By Peter Lynch with John Rothchild. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A homespun strategy for investing from the former manager of the Magellan Fund: find a business that's booming and buy its stock.
FOR GOD, COUNTRY AND COCA-COLA: The Unauthorized History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It. By Mark Pendergrast. (Scribners, $27.50.) Everything knowable about the potation of the 20th century.
MURDOCH. By William Shawcross. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) A sprightly life of the media-bestriding colossus Rupert Murdoch, portrayed as an undemonized capitalist more dedicated to making money than to ruling the world through journalism.
POST-CAPITALIST SOCIETY. By Peter F. Drucker. (Harper Business/HarperCollins, $25.) Like a star professor, Mr. Drucker lectures sweepingly about the transition from the Age of Capitalism to the Age of the Knowledge Society, from the decline of the megastate to the rise of organizations.
S&L HELL: The People and the Politics Behind the $1 Trillion Savings and Loan Scandal. By Kathleen Day. (Norton, $24.95.) Ms. Day, who covered the affair for The Washington Post, analyzes the fiasco she says could cost $13 billion a year in interest forever.
UNDUE INFLUENCE: The Epic Battle for the Johnson & Johnson Fortune. By David Margolick. (Morrow, $23.) Mr. Margolick, a Times reporter, skillfully explicates the fabulous litigation between the wife and the offspring of a man who left $402 million.
 
Children's Books
FOR THE LIFE OF LAETITIA. By Merle Hodge. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) To attend secondary school, Laetitia must leave her loving extended family in rural Trinidad and board in town with her abusive father and his new wife and family. The taut, lyrical novel captures the social and personal stress she experiences as she comes of age. (Ages 12 and up)
FREEDOM'S CHILDREN: Young Civil Rights Activists Tell Their Own Stories. By Ellen Levine. (Putnam, $16.95.) This wonderful account of the civil rights movement is told episodically and chronologically through the experiences of 30 black Americans who were children or teen-agers in that period. (Ages 12 and up)
I'LL SEE YOU IN MY DREAMS. By Mavis Jukes. Illustrated by Stacey Schuett. (Knopf, $15.) This storybook about a little girl who goes to visit her dying uncle provides lasting and evocative metaphors for saying goodbye, combining transcendent, elegiac prose and dreamy, painterly illustrations. (Ages 7 to 11)
THE MYSTERY OF THE CUPBOARD. By Lynne Reid Banks. (Morrow, $13.95.) The fourth novel about Omri, the appealing British schoolboy, his family, his friends and the small plastic creatures that come to life in the cupboard, contains the story of Omri's splendid great-great-aunt, Jessica Charlotte Driscoll, an extraordinary character. (Ages 10 and up)
THE TREE IN THE WOOD. Adapted and illustrated by Christopher Manson. (North/South Books, $14.95.) There's a sense of completion when you reach the end of a circular song and know you can begin again. Beautiful hand-colored woodcuts are as peaceful as the song: "And the green grass grew all around, all around, and the green grass grew all around." (Ages 5 to 8)
 
Crime
BUCKET NUT. By Liza Cody. (Perfect Crime/ Doubleday, $18.50.) An Amazonian who keeps watch, with two attack dogs, over a London junkyard is displeased when she is set up as a murder instrument in a gang war.
DON'T ASK. By Donald E. Westlake. (Mysterious Press/Warner, $18.95.) Mr. Westlake's eighth novel featuring John Dortmunder is one of his best, with plenty of Runyonesque New York low life and a lighthearted, psychology-free plot revolving around the rival attempts of Tsergovia and Votskojek, two Eastern European countries, to gain admittance to the United Nations.
PAPER DOLL. By Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $19.95.) In this tight, poignant story, Spenser goes to South Carolina to stir up the old ghosts of an upper-crust WASP woman bludgeoned to death in Boston.
THE SHAMAN'S KNIFE. By Scott Young. (Viking, $20.) An austerely evocative story in which Inspector Matteesie Kitologitak, an Eskimo detective working for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, is torn between ancient customs and modern laws when an admired shaman is suspected in a homicide.
32 CADILLACS. By Joe Gores. (Mysterious Press/Warner, $18.95.) In this fall-down funny caper, the King of the Gypsies wants to be buried in a pink Eldorado, Cadillacs disappear all over the San Franciso Bay area, and the repo firm D.K.A. is hot on the trail.
THE WAY THROUGH THE WOODS. By Colin Dexter. (Crown, $20.) The winner of Britain's 1992 Gold Dagger Award, this is Mr. Dexter's best Morse mystery yet. The prickly detective, ready to plunge into Jane Austen and billiards, gets distracted by some cryptic verses about a missing Swede.
 
Fiction
ARC D'X. By Steve Erickson. (Poseidon, $20.) Part of this serious, fantastical novel is set in Jeffersonian time, the other half in a modern America with streets named Desolate and Unrequited.
ARE YOU MINE? By Abby Frucht. (Grove, $19.95.) Ms. Frucht's witty and sensual third novel explores sexuality and its consequences, humanizing even a political issue like abortion.
THE BEST INTENTIONS. By Ingmar Bergman. (Arcade, $22.95.) The Swedish director playfully calls this book about his parents a novel. Whatever it is, it's lush and devastating at once.
BONE. By Fae Myenne Ng. (Hyperion, $19.95.) A sophisticated first novel about youth in San Francisco's Chinatown, about leaving it and about the unbearable disloyalty of "assimilation."
A BOWL OF CHERRIES. By Shena Mackay. (Moyer Bell, $16.95.) An adroit novel that incisively but compassionately deploys a dysfunctional family with familiar problems -- isolation, failed hopes, mutual deceit -- in comic configurations.
THE BOY WITHOUT A FLAG: Tales of the South Bronx. By Abraham Rodriguez Jr. (Milkweed Editions, paper, $11.) A first book of fiction, in which brutality is controlled by sophistication.
BUFFALO SOLDIERS. By Robert O'Connor. (Knopf, $22.) Mr. O'Connor's first novel successfully involves us with a self-absorbed nihilist, a drug-peddling Army clerk of impoverished moral sensibility but acute esthetic intelligence.
THE BUNGALOW. By Lynn Freed. (Poseidon, $21.) The glorious South African landscape, the hermetic lives of white middle-class South Africans, tea at 4, the cataclysm yet to come.
CHARMS FOR THE EASY LIFE. By Kaye Gibbons. (Putnam, $19.95.) Like all Ms. Gibbons's fiction, this novel concerns itself with strong women: a bookish narrator, her mother, her grandmother, all of them prevailing through fierce survival instincts and folk wisdom handed down from prior generations.
CHIMNEY ROCK. By Charlie Smith. (Holt, $22.50.) Mr. Smith's novel appropriates the language and vision of Southern Gothic to the dwellers in a nasty, dusty Hollywood through a narrator who represents a complete absence of ethical consciousness.
CLEOPATRA'S SISTER. By Penelope Lively. (HarperCollins, $20.) Ms. Lively's charming and intellectually resonant novel concerns an English couple whom fate, or Fate, conspires to place on a plane bound for just the wrong North African destination.
THE COLLECTED STORIES. By John McGahern. (Knopf, $24.) These stories, by a master of the clean, powerful description that conveys the immaterial significance in material things, offer a vision in which love is not an end but a means of gaining the world.
THE COLLECTED STORIES. By William Trevor. (Viking, $35.) A lifetime's worth of short fiction whose author enters into the lives of his characters with an intensity that uncovers new layers of yearning and pain in themes that have been endlessly explored.
CRY ME A RIVER. By T. R. Pearson. (Holt, $22.) A crime story, narrated by a cop and loser whose comrade's death brings us, eventually, into contact with a gallery of driven figures.
THE CZAR'S MADMAN. By Jaan Kross. (Pantheon, $31.50.) First published in 1978, this witty, disciplined novel from Estonia, translated into English by Anselm Hollo, a Finnish poet, is cast as a diary kept by a peasant's son.
DR. HAGGARD'S DISEASE. By Patrick McGrath. (Poseidon, $20.) In the (appropriate) guise of a Gothic horror tale, Mr. McGrath produces a myth of the creator sacrificed to his creation in the person of a surgeon who sees his onetime lover in her son.
EINSTEIN'S DREAMS. By Alan Lightman. (Pantheon, $17.) Spare, poetic fantasies about what Einstein might have dreamed when he was still a 26-year-old patent clerk in Switzerland.
THE EMPTY LOT. By Mary Gray Hughes. (Another Chicago Press, cloth, $22.50; paper, $10.95.) This absorbing novel concerns a ruthlessly ambitious divorcing couple who struggle over the house that stands in for the ordered values they seem to have forgotten.
EXPOSURE. By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $20.) This almost didactic novel yields a thoughtful discussion of the artist's effect on the world, through the story of the breakdown of a famous photographer's daughter, her father's favorite model.
FABLES OF THE IRISH INTELLIGENTSIA. By Nina FitzPatrick. (Penguin, paper, $9.) Thirteen bright, vigorous stories, featuring mostly poets, priests and academics, set in Ireland or wherever the Irish are. There is lots of drinking and even more talk.
FAMILY NIGHT. By Maria Flook. (Pantheon, $21.) Ms. Flook's astute first novel examines the erotic undercurrents in an extended family of bright, twerpy people who are reaching their 30's but are basically career teen-agers at heart.
FEARLESS. By Rafael Yglesias. (Warner, $18.95.) In this smooth, almost slick, novel about an airplane crash and its harrowing aftermath, the survivors do not merely survive; they live on in the reader's mind.
FLOOD! A Novel in Pictures. By Eric Drooker. (Four Walls Eight Windows, $15.95.) A vision of alienation in a New York peopled by the blighted and despairing, told virtually without words.
FOR LOVE. By Sue Miller. (HarperCollins, $23.) A vivid, fine-grained, realistic and honest novel whose characters are mainly over 40 and in love for far from the first time.
THE FOURTEEN SISTERS OF EMILIO MONTEZ O'BRIEN. By Oscar Hijuelos. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A capacious, marvelously complicated novel that is Mr. Hijuelos's paean to femininity and to family life as it is actually lived.
FRAUD. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $21.) A novel that explores relationships between aged parents and adult children, returning repeatedly to ask: when does love become destructive?
THE FURIES. By Janet Hobhouse. (Doubleday, $22.50.) Hobhouse's fourth and last novel is mesmerizing and haunting, an autobiographical novel that shows she was still searching for answers about her life, her choices, her family when she died in 1991.
GUEST OF A SINNER. By James Wilcox. (HarperCollins, $20.) Mr. Wilcox's sixth novel is a precise satirical urban comedy about a bunch of nobodies bumping around Manhattan.
THE HEATHER BLAZING. By Colm Toibin. (Viking, $20.) A novel that explores the Irish national psyche, concentrated in the forces that collide and are reconciled within a single family.
HELLO DOWN THERE. By Michael Parker. (Scribners, $20.) This serious, memorable novel shows a deep affection for its chief characters: a man who is hooked on morphine and jazz and the high-school student he falls in love with.
I KILLED HEMINGWAY. By William McCranor Henderson. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $18.95.) A 93-year-old eccentric claims to have murdered Hemingway (the rat published the old man's work as his own!) in this complex, amusing, palpably symbolic novel, concerned with issues from Oedipal to spiritual.
IN A COUNTRY OF MOTHERS. By A. M. Homes. (Knopf, $22.) A surprising New York love story, tuned to the insults of urban life, about the relationship between a young woman frightened by emotional attachments and her psychotherapist, who believes her patient may be her daughter.
THE INFINITE PLAN. By Isabel Allende. (HarperCollins, $23.) Ambitious and large, Ms. Allende's novel follows the disastrous life of a preacher's son and doubles as a cameo history of the United States, running from World War II to the 1990's.
INSHALLAH. By Oriana Fallaci. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $25.) Ms. Fallaci renders the confused universe of political factions in Beirut strangely rational in this muscular novel whose title means "God willing."
THE INVENTION OF TRUTH. By Marta Morazzoni. (Knopf, $18.) An absorbing novella about artists and lookers at art; it concerns John Ruskin and 300 women working on the Bayeux Tapestry.
THE ISLAND: Three Tales. By Gustaw Herling. (Viking, $20.) These stories by a Polish writer are unified by a common theme -- the persistence of life in the face of pain, humiliation and extremes of solitude -- and told with a humane, compassionate detachment.
JAPANESE BY SPRING. By Ishmael Reed. (Atheneum, $20.) A funny, explosive novel about political jockeying in the university; it spares no one who has ever sought power or had an opinion.
JESUS' SON: Stories. By Denis Johnson. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $19.) The universe of Mr. Johnson's fifth book of fiction is governed by addiction, malevolence, faith and uncertainty, rendered with ferocious imagery and a menacing sense of humor.
JUDGE ON TRIAL. By Ivan Klima. (Knopf, $25.) Mr. Klima's novel describes the crisis of conscience of a jurist in Czechoslovakia as the sureties of his personal life and the Marxist state crumble.
LEMPRIERE'S DICTIONARY. By Lawrence Norfolk. (Harmony, $22.) Not a dictionary but a first novel, droll, ferocious and intricate, set in the late 18th century, treating of a young man whose life is sidetracked by Ovidian myths and other irruptions.
LET THE DOG DRIVE. By David Bowman. (New York University, $19.95.) Fresh, fun and smart, this novel is told in the voice of an 18-year-old intellectual always on the lookout for new obsessions.
THE LOOP. By Joe Coomer. (Faber & Faber, $21.95.) A deadpan novel whose tender protagonist, significantly, has the job of clearing road kill and debris from the beltway circling a city.
LOVE ENTER. By Paul Kafka. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) In this clever epistolary novel, a subintern in a maternity ward chronicles his Paris interlude of four years before -- his love affair with two women in love with each other -- by entering a series of letters into the hospital's computer.
LOVING DAUGHTERS. By Olga Masters. (Norton, $21.95.) First published in Australia in 1984, this subtly passionate novel concerns a humanly imperfect rural family on whom the outside intrudes in the form of a handsome, single English clergyman.
THE MAN IN THE TOWER. By Michael Kruger. (Braziller, $19.95.) A mordant, funny novel about a reclusive German painter who lives in the south of France and broods on many things.
THE MAN WHO DREAMT OF LOBSTERS. By Michael Collins. (Random House, $19.) Stories by an Irish-born writer that happen not in the Ireland of myth but in a squalid third-world country.
THE MARRIAGE OF CADMUS AND HARMONY. By Roberto Calasso. (Knopf, $25.) Greek mythology retold for the 90's, conspicuously lacking in the Victorian innocence and decorum that inform the versions most of us are familiar with.
MARTIN AND JOHN. By Dale Peck. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) A daring, honest, dark debut novel about a gay hustler who travels from Kansas to New York and back to care for his lover, who is dying with AIDS.
MONDO BARBIE. Edited by Lucinda Ebersole and Richard Peabody. (St. Martin's, paper, $12.95.) A clever anthology of fiction and poetry inspired by the doll that is the all-American totemic bimbo.
A MOTHER'S LOVE. By Mary Morris. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $17.50.) A haunting, disturbing tale of the fear and loneliness of a New York mother who decides to go it alone.
MUSTANG SALLY. By Edward Allen. (Norton, $19.95.) Mr. Allen's regrettably accurate second novel is the first of the college campus satires to take on political correctness.
MYSTERY RIDE. By Robert Boswell. (Knopf, $22.) An irresistible novel about a family (she given to causes, he ineffectual, their daughter a rotten kid) who try to puzzle out their own history.
THE NORTH CHINA LOVER. By Marguerite Duras. (New Press, $19.95.) Set in Vietnam, this novel about a French girl obsessed with a Chinese man, though it began as notes toward a script for the movie "The Lover" (adapted from Ms. Duras's earlier novel), produces a strange feeling of immensity.
NOW YOU KNOW. By Michael Frayn. (Viking, $21.) Mr. Frayn's eighth novel explores a profound ethical territory -- the borderlands between public and private life -- in a manic comedy whose protagonist, an English politico, trips over his principles.
OPERATION SHYLOCK: A Confession. By Philip Roth. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A character named Philip Roth confronts another character named Philip Roth, and at least one of them is full of impermissible thoughts in this deeply serious, farcical novel.
THE ORACLE AT STONELEIGH COURT: Stories. By Peter Taylor. (Knopf, $22.) Mr. Taylor's latest superb collection (a novella, 10 stories, 3 plays) explores the ghostly influences from the past that can decide much of our destinies before we are born.
PARTICLES AND LUCK. By Louis B. Jones. (Pantheon, $22.) In Mr. Jones's second novel, a young physicist spends 24 hours learning the difference between reality as described in theoretical journals and reality as people live it day to day.
POOR THINGS: Episodes From the Early Life of Archibald McCandless M.D., Scottish Public Health Officer. By Alasdair Gray. (Harcourt Brace, $21.95.) The experimentally minded Scottish artist-novelist's heroine is a female suicide, reanimated by a wizard surgeon and given her unborn daughter's brain.
THE PORCUPINE. By Julian Barnes. (Knopf, $17.) A short, edgy, gloomy political novel in which a well-meaning Eastern European prosecutor learns that the fall of the old system has brought not energy and purpose but an ironically bourgeois alienation.
A PORTRAIT OF MY DESIRE. By MacDonald Harris. (Simon & Schuster, $20.) This nicely evasive writer gives us the sense that there is more to his story about a selfish, cowardly widower than we know.
PROOFS: And Three Parables. By George Steiner. (Granta/Penguin, paper, $10.) "Proofs," to which the "Parables" are appendages, is Mr. Steiner's arresting novella of the collapse of Communism among some of its last adherents.
RAMEAU'S NIECE. By Cathleen Schine. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) This inventive comic novel, a literary hybrid, is both an essentially 18th-century moral tale and a parody of post-modern form.
REBEL POWERS, by Richard Bausch. (Seymour Lawrence/ Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) The narrator of this novel, a thoughtful man trying to proceed honestly, examines his family, imperiled by the clash of old verities and threatening new ideas.
THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $22.50.) There are major characters but no heroes in this antiromance of 1907 in Battle Creek, Mich., where Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, the Edison of clean living, presides over pilgrims who hope to escape the ills and smells that flesh is heir to.
SACRED COUNTRY. By Rose Tremain. (Atheneum, $21.) A large novel, Ms. Tremain's sixth, in which three generations of Britons try to sort out who they are and how they might be happy.
SAVING ST. GERM. By Carol Muske Dukes. (Viking, $21.) A truly original novel in which a stubborn, puttering biochemist who forgets she has a body, a job, a family, is finally jolted out of her blessed state.
THE SECRET OF CARTWHEELS. By Patricia Henley. (Graywolf, paper, $11.) The author's second collection of short stories presents brave and life-worn characters, unsettled, cast loose; but when they are brave enough, they manage to land on their feet.
SHADOW PLAY. By Charles Baxter. (Norton, $21.95.) Mr. Baxter's confident second novel concerns primarily Wyatt Palmer, a bright boy who grows up into a dull job and an atmosphere of compromise in a town where evil is both profound and boring.
SHAMAN. By Noah Gordon. (Dutton, $23.) This intricate historical novel follows an impious doctor, making his way from Boston to the territories of Illinois and the battlefields of the Civil War.
THE SHIPPING NEWS. By E. Annie Proulx. (Scribners, $20.) In Ms. Proulx's third book of fiction, a man mourns his adulterous wife in Newfoundland, where he works on a newspaper whose boss magically senses what will most annoy his employees.
SOLITUDE. By Victor Catala (Caterina Albert i Paradis). (Readers International, cloth, $19.95; paper, $11.95.) Guaranteed a long obscurity by its first publication in Catalan under a pseudo nym in 1905, this overtly feminist novel sets a lowland peasant girl against a threatening mountain landscape and society.
THE STORIES AND RECOLLECTIONS OF UMBERTO SABA. By Umberto Saba. (Sheep Meadow Press, $22.50.) Melancholy short stories and sketches of Jewish life in Trieste by an Italian writer, much esteemed in his own country, who died in 1957.
A SUITABLE BOY. By Vikram Seth. (HarperCollins, $30.) A multitude of characters and events throng the 1,349 pages of this vast novel that strives to re-create the life of post-British India.
SWIMMING IN THE VOLCANO. By Bob Shacochis. (Scribners, $22.) This novel by a short-story veteran, full of huge, informative digressions, is more about the fictional Caribbean island of St. Catherine than about the plot or characters who happen to be there.
ULVERTON. By Adam Thorpe. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) This promising first novel deals with English history through linked tales in voices from the Cromwellian to the modern documentary.
UNTIL YOUR HEART STOPS. By T. M. McNally. (Villard, $20.) A harrowing first novel of suburban Arizona, in which violence, from personal through cosmic, is visited on nearly everyone; though not especially wicked, they all seem to deserve it.
VAN GOGH'S ROOM AT ARLES: Three Novellas. By Stanley Elkin. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A subtle, complicated, sometimes astonishing collection; in the title story, a provincial American teacher is overwhelmed by his encounter with formidable world-class academics while living in the painter's very bedroom.
VERTIGO PARK: And Other Tall Tales. By Mark O'Donnell. (Knopf, $18.) Expertly paced mock essays, playlets, yarns, poems and even cartoons by a lively, fertile humorist.
THE VIRGIN SUICIDES. By Jeffrey Eugenides. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) An evocative, disarming novel with unlikely premises: five suburban sisters take turns at suicide, and a gang of curious boys grow into their 30's trying to figure out why.
WHAT REMAINS AND OTHER STORIES. By Christa Wolf. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) These eight fiction pieces by the former East Germany's most discussed author contain insights that are sometimes blocked by a puritan, didactic tone.
WOMAN OF THE INNER SEA. By Thomas Keneally. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $21.) A picaresque, often hilarious novel about a wealthy woman's search for love following a family tragedy; it ponders how individuals achieve spiritual wholeness.
A WORLD FOR JULIUS. By Alfredo Bryce Echenique. (University of Texas, cloth, $45; paper, $19.95.) This masterpiece of Latin American fiction, finally in English 23 years after its publication in Spanish, concerns the amoral, insulated superrich in Lima, Peru, of the 1940's and 50's.
WRITTEN ON THE BODY. By Jeanette Winterson. (Knopf, $20.) This ambitious work is both a love story and a meditation on the body as our literal embodiment, the part of us that really loves.
 
History
BALKAN GHOSTS: A Journey Through History. By Robert D. Kaplan. (St. Martin's, $22.95.) A reporter's gallery of heroes and villains, past and present, who made Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and the former Yugoslavia the sweethearts they are.
CHANCELLORSVILLE 1863: The Souls of the Brave. By Ernest B. Furgurson. (Knopf, $25.) An account of Lee's victory in the only great Civil War battle in which the day was carried by mobility and maneuver instead of the attrition of men by metal.
THE CREATION OF FEMINIST CONSCIOUSNESS: From the Middle Ages to Eighteen-seventy. By Gerda Lerner. (Oxford University, $27.50.) A rough-hewn history of how the exclusion of women from history has left them "adrift in an eternal present."
DECISION IN THE WEST: The Atlanta Campaign of 1864. By Albert Castel. Maps by Laura Kriegstrom Poracsky. (University Press of Kansas, $29.95.) A stunning, daunting challenge to the legend that William Tecumseh Sherman was a brilliant commander.
FIREWORKS AT DUSK: Paris in the Thirties. By Olivier Bernier. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Mr. Bernier's eighth book is a lively, thorough chronicle of the momentous decade that saw the Third Republic, the Third Reich, World War II, Picasso, Gide, Ernst, Miro, Celine, Renoir.
THE GOLDEN THIRTEEN: Recollections of the First Black Naval Officers. Edited by Paul Stillwell. (Naval Institute Press, $21.95.) From interviews with eight of the first 13 black American naval officers and three of the white officers who trained them, Mr. Stillwell has created a moving oral history. Gen. Colin L. Powell contributes the foreword.
HEISENBERG'S WAR: The Secret History of the German Bomb. By Thomas Powers. (Knopf, $27.50.) Did the Nobel laureate deliberately retard Germany's progress toward an atomic bomb? Mr. Powers, in this thorough, exciting book, argues that he did.
A HISTORY OF FOOD. By Maguelonne Toussaint-Samat. (Blackwell, $39.95.) An opinionated, omnivorous French journalist and sociologist examines the stuffing of humanity, from prehistory to now and from France to the antipodes, in 800 pages.
THE NEW DEALERS: Power Brokers in the Age of Roosevelt. By Jordan A. Schwarz. (Knopf, $27.50.) Through a series of biographical profiles, the author drives home his arresting message -- that the New Deal was state capitalism, a system to modernize the underdeveloped West and South.
THE PATH TO GENOCIDE: Essays on Launching the Final Solution. By Christopher R. Browning. (Cambridge University, cloth, $39.95; paper, $10.95.) A magisterial, rigorously meditated study of how Nazi Germany instituted the industrialized murder of millions of men, women and children.
PROTECTING SOLDIERS AND MOTHERS: The Political Origins of Social Policy in the United States. By Theda Skocpol. (Belknap/Harvard University, $34.95.) This history of the welfare state is a sensitive examination of the occasions when parsimony and individualism were not the main determinants of American policy.
TITANIC: An Illustrated History. By Don Lynch. Paintings by Ken Marschall. (Madison Press/Hyperion, $60.) A recap of a familiar but irresistible story; Mr. Marschall's splendid paintings suggest that he might have been there, loaded with Kodachrome.
TO THE GATES OF RICHMOND: The Peninsula Campaign. By Stephen W. Sears. (Ticknor & Fields, $24.95.) How George B. McClellan, the general whom nobody loves, lost the largest single campaign of the Civil War because he was unwilling to fight.
 
Medicine & Psychology
A DANCING MATRIX: Voyages Along the Viral Frontier. By Robin Marantz Henig. (Knopf, $23.) A highly readable account of how adept viruses are at finding new pathways to new human populations.
FIRST, DO NO HARM. By Lisa Belkin. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A reporter for The New York Times conveys a series of wrenching medical and ethical decisions and the people who make them.
FREUD, JUNG, AND HALL THE KING-MAKER: The Historic Expedition to America (1909). By Saul Rosenzweig. (Rana House/Hogrefe & Huber, $27.50.) Freud, 53, got an honorary degree from Clark University. What an occasion! Mr. Rosenzweig re-creates it.
GENDER PLAY: Girls and Boys in School. By Barrie Thorne. (Rutgers University, cloth, $35; paper, $12.95.) A sociologist finds that the fun and games of childhood are rehearsals for the domination and subservience of adulthood.
GENIE: An Abused Child's Flight From Silence. By Russ Rymer. (HarperCollins, $20.) Raised speechless and in isolation for her first 13 years, Genie inspired heroic efforts to rehabilitate her and to study important principles of language -- mostly in vain.
NOBODY NOWHERE: The Extraordinary Autobiography of an Autistic. By Donna Williams. (Times Books/Random House, $21.) That Ms. Williams is able to decode the closed vernacular of autism -- the rocking, the headshaking and the scrunching up of toes -- is a testament to how remarkable her journey has been.
ON KISSING, TICKLING, AND BEING BORED: Psychoanalytic Essays on the Unexamined Life. By Adam Phillips. (Harvard University, $19.95.) A children's psychotherapist writes poetically about the dangers of vigilance and the pleasures of carelessness.
THE PEOPLE IN THE PLAYGROUND. By Iona Opie. (Oxford University, $23.) The Rabelaisian humor and poetic language of English children at play, presented by a woman who has watched them for 40 years.
YOU MUST BE DREAMING. By Barbara Noel with Kathryn Watterson. (Poseidon, $21.) The courageous, first-person account of the moral awakening of a woman who was drugged and raped by an old, world-renowned psychiatrist, and then, against all advice, sued him for malpractice.
 
Poetry
THE FATHER. By Sharon Olds. (Knopf, $20.) For years Sharon Olds has highlighted sex and death in her poetry, and here these concerns come together in powerful, sometimes breathless, scrupulously honest poems about her father dying of cancer. These poems examine grief with surprising delicacy and in startling depth.
GILGAMESH: A New Rendering in English Verse. By David Ferry. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, cloth, $15; paper, $10.) Only a handful of poets could come close to the subtlety and intelligence of the verse in this translation of the Babylonian epic, which is so masterly that it belongs as much to David Ferry as to its original poet. The intensity of this story of love, loyalty and the search for eternal life makes it a very modern, and profoundly moving, experience.
NEW & SELECTED POEMS. By Stephen Berg. (Copper Canyon, cloth, $21; paper, $12.) A hard spareness marks the poetry of Stephen Berg and the world he has presented in work over the 20 years covered in this volume; and the world of literature and the mind becomes a refuge. The light he throws on life may be too sharply focused for some readers; he makes us remember what we need to, but might forget.
NEW AND SELECTED POEMS. By Mary Oliver. (Beacon, $20.) Poems from 30 years that astonish by their consistent tone. Mary Oliver's concerns are public, her poetry sustaining; she so completely controls the rhythm and pacing of her lines that her poems teach us how to read them. This volume received the 1992 National Book Award.
TRAVELS. By W. S. Merwin. (Knopf, $20.) Sturdily written, wonderfully entertaining verse tales of an assortment of displaced characters make this a book rich in incident and irony. Few contemporary poets can tell stories as well as these are told, in a blend of romantic rhetoric and plain-spoken imagery that transports them into the realm of legend.
 
Politics & Current Affairs
ACROSS THE WIRE: Life and Hard Times on the Mexican Border. By Luis Alberto Urrea. (Anchor/Doubleday, paper, $9.) Not for the fainthearted, this book of linked vignettes presents a tough, subjective view of the suffering, the trash heaps and the slums of Tijuana.
AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS: The Inside Story of the End of the Cold War. By Michael R. Beschloss and Strobe Talbott. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A useful and readable account of events of great magnitude by two keen observers who enjoyed unusual access.
BOILING POINT: Republicans, Democrats, and the Decline of Middle-Class Prosperity. By Kevin Phillips. (Random House, $23.) A thorough and acerbic analysis of how the American middle class, over the last 20 years, has been losing its cash and its access to services, education, advancement and baseball tickets.
CONDUCT UNBECOMING: Lesbians and Gays in the U.S. Military, Vietnam to the Persian Gulf. By Randy Shilts. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) A landmark history that explores the ferocity and tenacity of those who have carried out -- with physical and psychological intimidation -- the purges against lesbians and gay men in the military.
CULTURE AND IMPERIALISM. By Edward W. Said. (Knopf, $25.) Mr. Said argues for the centrality of imperialism to European high culture, especially when it hides itself in the periphery.
THE END OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY AND THE END OF THE MODERN AGE. By John Lukacs. (Ticknor & Fields, $21.95.) For one thing, Mr. Lukacs says, it was a short century, beginning in 1914 and ending with the fall of Communism. Now, he argues provocatively, the world will be ruled by intransigent nationalism.
THE GULF CONFLICT 1990-1991: Diplomacy and War in the New World Order. By Lawrence Freedman and Efraim Karsh. (Princeton University, $29.95.) The fullest history yet of George Bush's famous victory, by two accomplished military scholars.
HATE ON TRIAL: The Case Against America's Most Dangerous Neo-Nazi. By Morris Dees and Steve Fiffer. (Villard, $21.) Mr. Dees, the trial lawyer for the Southern Poverty Law Center, tells, with great moral power, how he successfully sued Tom Metzger, a white supremacist, for inciting the murder of an Ethiopian student in Oregon.
HIGH NOON IN SOUTHERN AFRICA: Making Peace in a Rough Neighborhood. By Chester A. Crocker. (Norton, $29.95.) A history and defense of his conduct by Ronald Reagan's top diplomat for African affairs, highly circumstantial and highly instructive for those who agree with his policies and those who don't.
INSIDE GORBACHEV'S KREMLIN: The Memoirs of Yegor Ligachev. (Pantheon, $27.50.) The recollections of a tough, honest Bolshevik who was instrumental in bringing Mikhail S. Gorbachev to power but could not follow where Mr. Gorbachev wanted to go.
LEAVING TOWN ALIVE: Confessions of an Arts Warrior. By John Frohnmayer. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.95.) The political naif who was the chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts licks his wounds after his none-too-brilliant battles over the likes of Karen Finley, Holly Hughes, Andres Serrano and Robert Mapplethorpe.
LIFE'S DOMINION: An Argument About Abortion, Euthanasia, and Individual Freedom. By Ronald Dworkin. (Knopf, $23.) Mr. Dworkin contends that the relevant choices cannot depend on anyone's "right to live" (or to die), but must proceed from the idea that life is sacred, and that therefore the state must not interfere.
MARTYR'S DAY: Chronicle of a Small War. By Michael Kelly. (Random House, $23.) A personal account of extremely vivid experiences during and after the Persian Gulf war, by a journalist who later became a correspondent for The New York Times.
PANDAEMONIUM: Ethnicity in International Politics. By Daniel Patrick Moynihan. (Oxford University, $19.95.) Senator Moynihan, one of ethnicity's prime explorers, argues that modern politics has culpably slighted the subject and that national self-determination has proved a perilous principle.
PREPARING FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY. By Paul Kennedy. (Random House, $25.) The author of "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers" undertakes to examine the probable consequences of the world's present conduct. No nation will be unscathed, he argues; many will be miserable; ours will decline more than some but less than the most unfortunate.
RACE MATTERS. By Cornel West. (Beacon, $15.) What will turn our racial climate more benign? Mr. West, an optimist but a wise one, thinks good will, hard work and intelligence may yet help.
THE SEVENTH MILLION: The Israelis and the Holocaust. By Tom Segev. (Hill & Wang, $27.50.) A frank and devastating chronicle, by a columnist for an Israeli newspaper, of the uses and abuses of the Holocaust by political leaders in Palestine and Israel.
A SINGLE TEAR: A Family's Persecution, Love, and Endurance in Communist China. By Wu Ningkun in collaboration with Li Yikai. (Atlantic Monthly, $21.) In this poignant memoir the teacher Wu Ningkun, persecuted as a counterrevolutionary for 22 years in Maoist China, tries to answer the question: "Have I suffered and survived in vain?"
SLEEPING ON A WIRE: Conversations With Palestinians in Israel. By David Grossman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) An Israeli journalist explores, with great force, the anguish of Israel's largest minority, an anonymous population of a million Arabs, who since the founding of Israel have lived in suspended animation -- rejected, detested, suspected by the state they live in.
THE SPIRIT OF COMMUNITY: Rights, Responsibilities, and the Communitarian Agenda. By Amitai Etzioni. (Crown, $22.) A thoughtful commentary about and a promotion of communitarianism, the ideology that aims to address the moral crises of our day and restore civic responsibility to society.
TALES OUT OF SCHOOL: Joseph Fernandez's Crusade to Rescue American Education. By Joseph A. Fernandez with John Underwood. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) The school-reform wars as observed by a chief combatant, the tough, intelligent, nimble and occasionally abrasive man who has been ousted as New York City's Schools Chancellor.
TURMOIL AND TRIUMPH: My Years as Secretary of State. By George P. Shultz. (Robert Stewart/ Scribners, $30.) Mr. Shultz defends the incremental procedures that led to good relations between President Ronald Reagan and the former Evil Empire.
TURNING POINT: A Candidate, a State, and a Nation Come of Age. By Jimmy Carter. (Times Books/ Random House, $22.) A thoughtful reappraisal of Mr. Carter's first campaign, in 1962, when he was defeated in his bid for a seat in the Georgia State Senate, challenged the returns and ultimately won.
TWIN PILLARS TO DESERT STORM: America's Flawed Vision in the Middle East From Nixon to Bush. By Howard Teicher and Gayle Radley Teicher. (Morrow, $23.) A member of the National Security Council staff until 1987 and his wife vent their anger over the shortsightedness of America's twin objectives in the Middle East -- to block Soviet influence and to keep the oil coming.
UNDER A NEW SKY: A Reunion With Russia. By Olga Andreyev Carlisle. (Ticknor & Fields, $21.95.) A detailed, insightful account of Russian intellectuals and trends since 1960 by the daughter and granddaughter of pre-Revolutionary literary figures.
UNDER FIRE: The NRA and the Battle for Gun Control. By Osha Gray Davidson. (Holt, $25.) In this informative report about the National Rifle Association's history and lobbying activities, Mr. Davidson argues that the organization has been weakened by its uncompromising stance that American democracy depends on unfettered access to guns.
THE WORST OF TIMES. By Patricia G. Miller. (Aaron Asher/HarperCollins, $22.) Ms. Miller, a lawyer specializing in matrimonial law, interviewed some 50 people with firsthand experience for this memoir of abortion before Roe v. Wade.
 
Religion & Philosophy
THE ANCHOR BIBLE DICTIONARY. David Noel Freedman, editor in chief. (Six volumes, Doubleday, $360.) This monumental (7,035 pages) and truly ecumenical work brings together the efforts of nearly 1,000 contributors in entries, some of them at essay length, on innumerable major and minor biblical topics.
THE CHURCH AND THE LEFT. By Adam Michnik. (University of Chicago, $24.95.) Published in Polish in 1977, Mr. Michnik's essay argues that the secular opposition to Communism must reconsider the reflexive anticlericalism of the left.
DAKOTA: A Spiritual Geography. By Kathleen Norris. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) A deeply moving book that is itself an act of devotion by a poet who is a married Protestant and also a lay member of a Benedictine community on the Great Plains.
ISLAM AND DEMOCRACY: Fear of the Modern World. By Fatima Mernissi. (Addison-Wesley, $24.95.) With insightful flashes and no apologies, this Muslim woman argues for democracy in the Muslim world and looks at the growing fundamentalist movements there.
LEAD US NOT INTO TEMPTATION: Catholic Priests and the Sexual Abuse of Children. By Jason Berry. (Doubleday, $22.50.) In his detailed investigation, Mr. Berry finds cases of child molestation by Catholic clergy members from New York to Honolulu, uncovers a pattern in the pedophilia and suggests that the church's sexual ethic is partly to blame.
METAPHYSICS AS A GUIDE TO MORALS. By Iris Murdoch. (Allen Lane/Penguin, $35.) Echoing her novels, Ms. Murdoch teaches us to be wary when approaching any philosophy, including her own Platonic view that our moral sense depends on our imperfect apprehension of perfection.
MY FATHER'S GURU: A Journey Through Spirituality and Disillusion. By Jeffrey Moussaieff Masson. (Addison-Wesley, $20.) Before he grew up and overthrew Freud, Mr. Masson lived a childhood of total immersion in his family's infatuation with a spiritual guide his father brought home from India.
THE NEW COLD WAR? Religious Nationalism Confronts the Secular State. By Mark Juergensmeyer. (University of California, $25.) This dispassionate comparative study of violent religious movements centers on a question: are we about to witness a geopolitical battle between zealots and Western secular societies?
OUTERCOURSE: The Be-Dazzling Voyage. By Mary Daly. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.) More radical cheek from the philosopher, theologian, mythologist, explorer, pirate, warrior, witch, fairy and leprechaun who gave us "Gyn/Ecology."
RIGHTEOUS DISCONTENT: The Women's Movement in the Black Baptist Church, 1880-1920. By Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham. (Harvard University, $34.95.) A sophisticated and inspirational study of the time when black women, in the interest of survival and resistance, made the Baptist church their institutional base.
SHAME AND NECESSITY, by Bernard Williams. (Centennial/University of California, $25.) A clever, agile professor of philosophy argues that the Homeric Greeks may have been wiser than the great thinkers of Athens and possibly even wiser than we.
THE TIBETAN BOOK OF LIVING AND DYING. By Sogyal Rinpoche. (HarperSanFrancisco, $22.) Tibetan Buddhism, an ancient, complex and mystical religion, gracefully expounded by a native Tibetan authority (the Dalai Lama contributes a preface).
UPON THIS ROCK: The Miracles of a Black Church. By Samuel G. Freedman. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A report on a year spent with St. Paul Community Baptist Church in a black section of Brooklyn and with its wise and sophisticated pastor, who has made the church a locus of organization, rescue and healing.
WRITING WOMEN'S WORLDS: Bedouin Stories. By Lila Abu-Lughod. (University of California, $30.) In this richly textured ethnography, an anthropologist recounts the conversations, stories, jokes and songs of Muslim Arab women living in the Western Desert of Egypt; she writes to challenge our understanding of Muslim life, and our very notion of culture.
 
Science
ASSEMBLING CALIFORNIA. By John McPhee. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) The last of four volumes on American geology and the practitioners of plate tectonics explores the construction of California out of traveling rocks from all over the world in the last 100 million years, as well as its probable dissolution.
COMPLEXITY: Life at the Edge of Chaos. By Roger Lewin. (Macmillan, $22.) A vivid account of the eccentric characters who are blazing fresh paths through biology, physics and mathematics to create a new interdisciplinary science.
COMPLEXITY: The Emerging Science at the Edge of Order and Chaos. By M. Mitchell Waldrop. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) Mr. Waldrop relays the exhilaration of the scientists and enthusiasts at the Santa Fe Institute as they found a new field.
DREAMS OF A FINAL THEORY. By Steven Weinberg. (Pantheon, $25.) Finding austere inspiration in the possibility that the universe may one day be reduced to bare mathematical formulas, a Nobel laureate and uncompromising reductionist argues boldly that we should plunge wholeheartedly into that future.
FUZZY LOGIC. By Daniel McNeill and Paul Freiberger. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) How computer scientists generated programs that can handle propositions like "40 percent true," and why such programs are often more useful than plain old true/false logic.
GENIUS IN THE SHADOWS. A Biography of Leo Szilard: The Man Behind the Bomb. By William Lanouette with Bela Silard. (Robert Stewart/Scribners, $35.) A delightful, anecdote-rich biography of the Hungarian physicist who knew everybody and everything but got no credit because his best friends could barely stand him.
THE GOD PARTICLE: If the Universe Is the Answer, What Is the Question? By Leon Lederman with Dick Teresi. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.95.) A Nobel laureate with a gift for folksiness looks at the search for a unified theory of nature and for the particle that could play a part in determining the properties of the fundamental forces.
NATURE'S MIND: The Biological Roots of Thinking, Emotions, Sexuality, Language and Intelligence. By Michael S. Gazzaniga. (Basic Books, $25.) In a bold, absorbing challenge to the tabula rasa theory of mind, Mr. Gazzaniga, a neurobiologist, asserts that drug addicts, alcoholics, depressives, musical geniuses and philosophers are not made but born.
SCIENCE IN RUSSIA AND THE SOVIET UNION: A Short History. By Loren R. Graham. (Cambridge University, $29.95.) This informative history shows that science in Russia -- whether before, during or after Communist rule -- has never been the independent enterprise it was in Western Europe.
 
Science Fiction
A DEEPER SEA. By Alexander Jablokov. (Avonova/Morrow, $22.) In this untidy, provocative tale, an obsessive scientist teaches dolphins to talk by torturing them, thereby raising ethical questions that come to vex the entire solar system.
THE DESTINY MAKERS. By George Turner. (Avonova/Morrow, $20.) The Australian novelist dispassionately homes in on a tough issue: In a world of runaway population growth, who decides which babies don't get born?
DEUS X. By Norman Spinrad. (Spectra/ Bantam, $3.99.) A witty short novel that asks whether an electronic replica of a human being has a soul, and, if so, whether it can be saved with the help of the first female Pope.
DREAM OF GLASS. By Jean Mark Gawron. (Harcourt Brace, $21.95.) A complex and engrossing philosophical novel that explores, with great energy and flashes of poetry, the future of freedom in a world dominated by computers and the people who control them.
THE HARVEST. By Robert Charles Wilson. (Spectra/Bantam, cloth, $23; paper, $12.) An intelligently conceived, fully realized novel about an assortment of malcontents who reject an offer to give up their humanity and become immortal.
NIGHTSIDE THE LONG SUN. By Gene Wolfe. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $21.95.) To inaugurate a new multivolume series, the indefatigable Mr. Wolfe introduces a young priest who, in trying to rescue his chapel and school from bankruptcy, stumbles on some disturbing truths about his world and his gods.
 
Spies & Thrillers
BRIDES OF BLOOD. By Joseph Koenig. (Grove, $19.95.) What makes this crackling, shocking police procedural about a murdered prostitute wildly different is its setting -- the hate-filled streets and prisons of present-day Iran.
HARD DRIVE. By David Pogue. (Diamond/Berkley, paper, $4.99.) A company in Silicon Valley, on the verge of unveiling a computer that takes dictation, is foiled by a virus, and Armageddon begins.
THE JOURNEYMAN TAILOR. By Gerald Seymour. (Edward Burlingame/HarperCollins, $20.) An Irish terrorist and a woman who is a British secret service agent tangle in this morally complex, captivating novel.
POINT OF IMPACT. By Stephen Hunter. (Bantam, $21.95.) This superbly written page turner, about a sniper-turned-hunter who has been framed, teaches us, among other things, the details of shooting at a target half a mile away.
PRAETORIAN. By Thomas Gifford. (Bantam, $22.50.) Not quite an espionage tale, not quite a war story, this complicated novel, set in the days when Rommel was taking over North Africa, explores human relationships through the eyes of a wartime journalist.
 
Travel, Nature & Adventure
AT THE HAND OF MAN: Peril and Hope for Africa's Wildlife. By Raymond Bonner. (Knopf, $24.) Mr. Bonner inspects nearly every relevant argument about conservation in Africa and finds that there will be none, without support by intelligent exploitation.
THE AYE-AYE AND I: A Rescue Mission in Madagascar. By Gerald Durrell. (Arcade, $22.95.) Mr. Durrell's 24th book, written in support of grave efforts to save a rare mammal and its environment, is a sharply detailed romp in an enchanted landscape of unique flora and fauna.
THE CRYSTAL DESERT: Summers in Antarctica. By David G. Campbell. (Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) Mr. Campbell, a biologist, spent three seasons in the Antarctic and returned with eerily clear perceptions of that sere and uninhabitable place.
THE FATE OF THE ELEPHANT. By Douglas H. Chadwick. (Sierra Club, $25.) A wildlife biologist presents an elephant-centric view of the world -- from Tanzania to Malaysia -- and a splendidly fun and morally sensible introduction to elephant-human conflicts everywhere.
GOING BACK TO BISBEE. By Richard Shelton. (University of Arizona, cloth, $35; paper, $15.95.) A memorable ride through time and experience from booming Tucson to struggling Bisbee, Ariz., with fascinating sidetracks into botany, history and biology.
THE LAST PANDA. By George B. Schaller. (University of Chicago, $24.95.) A distinguished biologist's group portrait of "the most endearing creatures I have ever seen" and a catalogue of human bungling that may guarantee the extinction of the wild panda.
NATURAL OPIUM: Some Travelers' Tales. By Diane Johnson. (Knopf, $21.) The distinguished essayist meditates frugally and perceptively on the psychological strangeness of travel, from the plains of Tanzania to the slopes of Mormon Utah.
ROAD SCHOLAR: Coast to Coast Late in the Century. By Andrei Codrescu. (Hyperion, $19.95.) Mr. Codrescu, a poet better known as an essayist on National Public Radio, mounts a red '68 Caddy for a journey in essay writing, a countertrave logue that visits lots of spots important in the less orthodox history of America.
 
True Crime
DEATH BENEFIT: A Lawyer Uncovers a Twenty-Year Pattern of Seduction, Arson, and Murder. By David Heilbroner. (Harmony/Crown, $20.) How a straight-arrow lawyer ran to earth, despite the apathy of insurance companies and law enforcement agencies, the appal ling psychopath who killed a client's daughter.
EVERYTHING SHE EVER WANTED: A True Story of Obsessive Love, Murder, and Betrayal. By Ann Rule. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A harrowing look at a modern-day Southern psychopath who knew how to bat her eyelashes and annihilate a family.
THE MISBEGOTTEN SON. A Serial Killer and His Victims: The True Story of Arthur J. Shawcross. By Jack Olsen. (Delacorte, $21.95.) A veteran true-crime writer's fascinating and forceful account of a life devoted to torture, mutilation and homicide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review; List

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL AND ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331111 IRON AND STEEL MILLS (55%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (79%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); WRITERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT WALTRIP 'BOBBY' SHORT (57%); ROBERT BURNS MOTHERWELL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



133 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
In the Deep Heart's Core

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
We have to first create a language," said Hillary R. Clinton to Michael Kelly of The New York Times in one of those eye-popping, seminal magaziners, "that would better communicate what we are trying to say, and the policies would flow from that language."
Language first, policy second; there's a woman who has her priorities straight. Language mavens across the land are prepared to take a crash course in Hillaryese, centered on what the writer Michael Lerner has named "the politics of meaning." 
 The key noun, as I interpret it, is core. "The problem with the language," wrote Mr. Kelly, troubled by the gushy jargon, "goes right to the core of the question of what it all means." He asked, "Is there one unifying idea that is at the heart of the politics of meaning?"
"I don't think there is one core thing," replied the First Lady, urging that the politics of meaning be thought through on "a variety of planes."
I have since been flying US Air, Delta and United, thinking about core values, core ideas and the whole core thing.
Only a couple of weeks ago, David Wilhelm, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, used the magic word on "Meet the Press" to define Bill Clinton's plan as including "the core idea that we need to improve the economic chances of hard-working, middle-income families."
The week before that, Senator Edward M. Kennedy showed how he could get with the program: "I think that all of us understand that one of the fundamental core values of our society is voluntary service."
Secretary of Education Richard Riley was confronted by the Hillaryese vocabulary as well, when he hosted a satellite town meeting. (A meeting in a satellite town, or suburb? No; a town meeting via satellite.) During the program, an educator said, "The core idea is that the work place becomes a learning environment for young people."
The core thing, as against the vision thing from a previous Administration, is directed inward. "Cohorts are generations of people with the same birth years and core values," wrote Natalie Perkins in Advertising Age. Philip Gailey, a columnist for The St. Petersburg Times (must be Florida; the paper in Russia is the Sankt-Peterburgskiye Vedomosti) found "continuing signs that [Clinton] is what his critics have long said he was: a politician with squishy core values."
To a previous generation, core -- from the very middle of Middle English -- was the acronym for the Congress of Racial Equality. To tomorrow's generation, a core dump is a copy of the data stored in the core memory of a computer, usually transferred to an external disk. (I'd better hit the "save" button before all this slips into cloud-cuckoo-land.)
In a sense, the current generation of boomers is participating in a cohort-wide core dump, downloading the word core as an attributive noun on all our heads. That may fall short of the meaning of life, but it gives us a leg up on the meaning of the politics of meaning.
An aging Gen. Douglas MacArthur, bidding farewell to the corps of cadets at his beloved West Point, presaged this plunge into the politics of meaning with his immortal closing line: "Today marks my final roll call with you. But I want you to know that when I cross the river, my last conscious thoughts will be of the core, and the core, and the core." (That's how it sounded, anyway.)
 
GRAND ALLUSIONS
 THIS IS THE ONLY place in the whole global media where subtle, sensitive souls can find explanations of poetic allusions in current hardball political discourse.
Members of the Poetic Allusion Watch (PAW), however, have endured a dismaying year. Politicians using poetry are stooping to identify their allusions as they make them, taking out the fun and insulting the electorate.
Representative Henry Hyde, Republican of Illinois, the thinking man's right-winger, was taking a pop at the special prosecutor in the Iran-contra case, whose prosecutions were blocked by President Bush's 11th-hour pardons.
"Lawrence Walsh's term has now gone on for more than six years and nearly 40 million taxpayer dollars have been spent," said the white-maned solon. "Like Tennyson's brook, it runs on and on and on."
This was no allusion; it was a direct citation of "The Brook's Song," by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, a verse of which goes: "I chatter, chatter, as I flow/ To join the brimming river,/For men may come and men may go/But I go on for ever."
No fun in that; too cut and dried. However, above a New York Times editorial hailing President Clinton's speech commemorating Earth Day (and a few of us hawks are touting Mars Day), there appeared this headline: "A Greener, Cleaner President."
"Do you still solicit contributions to PAW?" asked Donald Marks of New York. "I enclose an example, perhaps by a 'group journalist' with a yearning to send a message."
The allusion, he grudgingly told me, was to Rudyard Kipling's "Mandalay," a poem by the writer beloved by Tories for his stiff-upper-lip, white-man's-burden support of the British Empah: "I've a neater, sweeter maiden in a cleaner, greener land."
I called the editorial department of The Times, which is indeed peopled by groupies -- journalists who preserve their anonymity to speak for the institution as a whole -- and reached Robert Semple, who was hanging around late that day.
"Allusion to Kipling?" he responded. "Us? This is The New York Times. We do Yeats." Without revealing the author of the headline or the editorial, he flatly denied any allusion at all. The writer, whoever it may have been -- and Semple is big on the environment -- merely liked the rhyme of greener and cleaner. No, he didn't get Kipling backward, inverting the word order -- that was just the way the pair of words tumbled out. Great poetic minds don't think exactly alike.
What a pity. Ever since being disappointed at the paucity of PAW, I'm a fleeter, beater writer with a leaner, meaner mind. We'll come back to this study when subtlety can again be heard in the deep heart's core.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

LEGISLATION: 102 S.J.R. 119 EARTH DAY (52%); 102 P.L. 34 EARTH DAY (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WRITERS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); FAMILY (66%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



134 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 3179 words

HEADLINE: STAGE VIEW;
A New Generation on Old Broadway

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
"All About Eve," the smartest movie ever made about Broadway, begins and ends with a glamorous awards ceremony at which decorous theater people speak fondly of their art and one another while accepting trophies and preening for the cameras. During the two hours of flashback that come in between, the characters, including a dyspeptic drama critic, are revealed as a bunch of back-stabbing schemers at worst and childlike dreamers at best. When the Broadway of "All About Eve" gives birth to a prize-winning performance or play, it does so despite its own denizens' mean-spiritedness and whimsical artistic instincts.
Much about the street has changed beyond recognition since 1950, the year Joseph L. Mankiewicz's masterpiece was sent forth by Hollywood. Not even Addison DeWitt, the critic in "All About Eve," could have foreseen a season like that of 1992-93 in which two hits (one of them starring an extant sensation of the 1950's, Chita Rivera) offer uncloseted gay protagonists and onstage scenes of simulated defecation. Nor could anyone have predicted 40 years ago that Broadway's rate of production would slow to a trickle by the 1990's -- from 60 productions as late as the 1980-81 season to only 32 this season -- or that most important new American dramas would only play Broadway as if it were another stop on the road or even bypass Broadway entirely. 
 Yet the human comedy remains eternal, many of the same gilded playhouses endure, and certain show-biz rituals won't die even if a stake is driven into their heart. Tonight's Tony Awards, to be broadcast by CBS from the Gershwin Theater at 9, will be the time-honored kiss-kiss affair, though produced for the first time by Gary Smith, the man who did such a flashy job with the biggest television spectacular to play New York this season, the Democratic National Convention. And, as always, the reassuringly glitzy surface will mask festering hostilities that may be more lethal than any Mankiewicz might have imagined.
The hostilities have increased because too many Broadway theater hands are competing for a share of a vastly reduced pie: fewer shows, smaller audiences, fewer jobs. And increasingly, the battle lines are drawn along a fierce generational divide, as youth tries to have its day in the sole branch of American show business where executives in their 20's and 30's are almost unheard of. "Angels in America" and "Tommy," the two Broadway productions that made the most noise this season, are both the work of younger artists, producers and theater management who are challenging the older Broadway establishment that has run the steadily eroding commercial American theater for the last 25 years. Not for nothing have four important recent American plays -- "Six Degrees of Separation," "The Sisters Rosensweig," "Jeffrey" and "Angels in America" -- invoked the longest-running Broadway hit of the 1980's, "Cats," as comic shorthand for commercial theater culture at its most mindless. "Cats" is not the brand name that major American playwrights want to define the best-known artery of their theater anymore.
The transition from an old Broadway to a new one is essential if Broadway is to attract emerging theater artists of the first rank and remain even the showcase for imported attractions it has become. While tonight's likely Tony winners (and, for that matter, most of the runners-up) are highly gifted, they are a lonely group, in need of larger audiences and a more active Broadway scene if they are to prosper. There is no time to waste. After the false high of last season, in which some first-rate musicals camouflaged the paucity of American plays, this season almost did not happen. All but one of the four Broadway productions that most excited the public and the critics opened in the season's last two weeks (as marked by the May 5 cutoff of eligibility for Tony Awards consideration). As has been typically the case for years now, none of these esteemed shows were created by Broadway but were instead reworkings or direct transfers of productions that first achieved success elsewhere: whether Off Broadway ("The Sisters Rosensweig," from Lincoln Center Theater), or in London ("Kiss of the Spider Woman") or at nonprofit institutional theaters beyond New York ("Tommy" and "Angels in America").
There is some faint hope in this sorry picture, paradoxically, and much of it centers on the tumultuous public response to "Angels in America" and "Tommy." As theatrical works, both these shows are radical challenges to Broadway establishment thinking. Both were produced independently of that establishment in California and are as far removed from bloated establishment Broadway dinosaurs like "The Goodbye Girl" as theater can get. As they both reflect a younger theatrical generation behind the scenes, they tempt a younger audience into Broadway's increasingly empty seats.
"Angels" does not fit any traditional Broadway formula for a sure thing; quite the reverse, it sounds like a madman's recipe for a sure flop. Three and a half hours long and told in part in the oblique imagery of dreams, Tony Kushner's drama isn't even complete in itself but is only the first half (titled "Millennium Approaches") of an epic in progress. (Part 2, "Perestroika," is promised in the fall, when it is to join Part 1 in repertory.) The play deals graphically with AIDS and, more demandingly, asks that the audience open its minds and hearts to what the playwright calls "a gay fantasia on national themes." Mr. Kushner's work is nothing less than a radical vision of American society, politics and religion as written in the uncompromisingly extravagant voice of a homosexual leftist intellectual who will try anything (except conventional social realism) to turn original ideas and life-and-death emotions into gripping and often ferociously funny theater.
THOUGH NOT REMOTELY intellectual in its intentions, "Tommy" bends Broadway's rules about mass commercial entertainment as strenuously as "Angels" does its staid dictates about what constitutes high drama. "Tommy" is Broadway's first real collaboration with a rock composer (Pete Townshend of the Who) and its first intelligent accommodation with rock music itself, an inexorable cultural force that has stolen away much of the Broadway musical's audience since rock-and-roll first usurped Broadway pop music on the hit parade in the 1950's.
Through the years, Broadway has tried ridiculing rock (in "Bye Bye Birdie"), simulating rock (in "Hair," "Jesus Christ Superstar") and promoting cheesy, Las Vegas-style rock-concert facsimiles ("Beatlemania," "Buddy"). Finally in "Tommy," an authentic rock score has been turned into a roller coaster of musical theater that fuses the angry and searching late-1960's undertow of the Who's original composition with the exhilarating choreographic storytelling techniques of advanced Broadway musicals (notably Harold Prince's "Evita" and Michael Bennett's "Dreamgirls"), the eye-opening experiments of modern poetic theater imagists like Robert Wilson and the cinematic rush of MTV.
While "Tommy" and "Angels in America" have little else in common, they do share an unconventional approach to dramatic storytelling, a faith in spiritual revelation and an appreciation for abstract and hallucinatory modes of stage language. As "Angels" does not follow the logic of the traditional well-made play and its easily parsed message, so "Tommy," which has virtually no dialogue, takes a "Peter Pan"-like fairy tale and transposes it to a new theatrical key that challenges the Broadway status quo. Like the other two Broadway musicals that have tried to redefine the form in the post-"Chorus Line" era, "Dreamgirls" and "Sunday in the Park With George," "Tommy" may well not win the Tony Award. The likely winner is Mr. Prince's beautifully staged "Spider Woman," a show that is itself far more adventurous than most recent Tony-winning musicals but, in its traditional mix of show-biz flash and liberal sentimentality, far more accessible to Tony voters than "Tommy."
"Angels in America" and "Tommy" have a language barrier to cross because they are the creation of young, though highly sophisticated, theatrical hands well below the median age of the Broadway industry and its target audience. Tony Kushner and George C. Wolfe, the author and director of "Angels," are both in their 30's. Des McAnuff, who co-wrote "Tommy" with Mr. Townshend and directed it, is 40. What's more -- and what may be most terrifying to the Broadway establishment -- both "Angels" and "Tommy" were wooed and won for Broadway by the youngest and smallest of Broadway's theater-owning organizations, Jujamcyn Theaters.
With only five houses at its disposal, and not the most desirable ones at that, Jujamcyn should not be a formidable competitor to the Shubert Organization (16 theaters) and the Nederlander Organization (9 theaters), the companies that have dominated Broadway for most of its modern history. Yet Jujamcyn -- whose president, Rocco Landesman, 45, is more than two decades younger than even his youngest rival -- has defied those odds and defined the Broadway landscape for two seasons running; last season its prime bookings were "Jelly's Last Jam" and "Guys and Dolls." The youngest Broadway management, perhaps only naturally, is more in touch with the rising creative stars of the theater than its competitors.
Demographically comparable audiences follow. Thanks to the iconoclasm of Jujamcyn, there may be more diverse audiences at Broadway hits right now than at any time in memory: more young people, more black people, more gay people. Still, even two theatrical phenomena as potent as "Angels" and "Tommy" cannot, as the perennial wish goes, "save Broadway." The diversity of these audiences is inevitably shallow, given the steep price of a Broadway ticket, and Jujamcyn's very success puts a cap on its ambitions, since four of the chain's five theaters are now unlikely to change tenants for many months, if not years, to come.
So entrenched are Broadway's traditional reflexes that no single organization, however successful, can ameliorate the industry's many systemic problems, starting with those that have led to high production costs and commensurate ticket prices. Does Broadway want to change? When President Clinton announced his new economic plan in February, one of its first and most vocal critics was the League of American Theater Owners and Producers, the Broadway trade organization, which declared the President's plan "devastating" because of its proposal to trim the deductibility of entertainment expenses.
Despite all these years of decline, the Broadway establishment still sees as its meal ticket the expense-account ticket buyer who entertains clients at taxpayers' expense. The league may be right, depressingly enough, but that audience is shrinking, not growing, and will indeed collapse if the entertainment deduction is knocked down. Then what? Is anyone thinking about the future that increasingly looks inevitable? (At the very least the league might try to turn the Clinton tax bite into a virtue by lobbying for a plan that might funnel revenues from a reduced entertainment deduction to government subsidy of theater tickets for audiences who cannot afford them.)
A Broadway theater establishment that is most vocal about preserving the tax break for tired businessmen in search of cheesecake at "The Will Rogers Follies" is not likely to know how to keep the new audiences attracted to Broadway by an "Angels" or "Tommy." If these new theatergoers seek another play, they are more than likely to seek it Off Broadway, just as most seasoned theatergoers do, and why shouldn't they? For each good play that reaches a Broadway house (at most two or three even in a vintage season), there are several more American plays of comparable artistic vitality that pop up at a lower ticket price elsewhere. Just this season alone, and a recession-battered season at that, Off Broadway's prominent productions included, among many others, David Mamet's "Oleanna," Anna Deavere Smith's "Fires in the Mirror," Jon Robin Baitz's "Three Hotels," Paul Rudnick's "Jeffrey," John Leguizamo's "Spic-O-Rama," Stephen Sondheim's "Putting It Together," Horton Foote's "Roads to Home" and Larry Kramer's "Destiny of Me."
None of these shows will be celebrated on the Tonys tonight because the Broadway establishment, in yet another typical display of the tunnel vision that has brought it to its current low estate, still refuses to let Off Broadway plays compete for the theater's most prominent award. Imagine if this year's Academy Awards had eliminated from its nominations all movies not financed by major Hollywood studios: "Howards End," "The Crying Game" and "Enchanted April" would have been struck from Oscar consideration. This is the exact equivalent of what the Tonys are doing, and who benefits beside the few blockbusters that can unfairly limit their competition?
So determined is the diminished Broadway establishment to hold on to whatever economic prerogatives it retains -- starting with the mammoth free publicity of the Tonys -- that it would rather shut out many of the theater's best artists than share the wealth in the only nationally televised theatrical event of the year. It says much about the ludicrousness of the system that Arthur Miller is eligible for a Tony tonight for "The Price," a 1968 play that happened to be revived on Broadway this season, and is ineligible for Tony consideration for his latest play, "The Last Yankee," which was produced Off Broadway.
Then again, not all Broadway shows are really eligible for Tonys, either: "Fool Moon," another surprise success of the Broadway season, received no Tony nominations because the classic clowning of David Shiner and Bill Irwin does not fit the anachronistically rigid Tony categories that have plenty of room for nominees in forgotten shows like "Anna Karenina" and "Ain't Broadway Grand."
The Tonys, supposedly an event to promote Broadway, may in fact be helping to kill Broadway. Not only is the awards show underselling the artistic content of the New York (and American) theater by refusing to be inclusive in its prizes, but it is also encouraging a one- or two-month Broadway season, as opposed to the nine-month season of the "All About Eve" past. Because Tony Award nominations are thought to be essential for box-office success, few plays or musicals venture to open on Broadway before the spring, when the nominations are announced. A late-season opening is also supposed to increase the chances of winning a Tony, on the theory that the Tony Award voters, not the youngest of constituencies, are too doddering to remember the contenders they saw as far back as the previous fall. Even so, business is so poor for all except the top hits that late-season dramatic arrivals with respectably mixed reviews like "The Song of Jacob Zulu," "Redwood Curtain" and "Wilder, Wilder, Wilder" closed abruptly anyway, days before or days after they received the Tony nominations that were supposed to resuscitate them.
A Broadway theater so ungenerous to the rest of the American theater, so overpriced for the audience and so self-destructive in its internal business practices cannot be saved by its artists alone, however brilliant, or by one great play or any number of hit musicals. Major reform is called for. If the audience for "Angels in America" doesn't stick around, after all, the artists who created it will go where that audience is: George Wolfe can direct his next play at the New York Shakespeare Festival, which he is newly in charge of reviving, and Tony Kushner can write his next play for companies like the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles and the Eureka Theater Company in San Francisco, where "Angels" began its life. The American theater and its audience can live without Broadway; most of the time they already do.
But can New York City live without Broadway? Even if the old Broadway now exists only in fantasy enshrinements like "All About Eve" and "Guys and Dolls," the illusion that a fabled Broadway is still out there somewhere, however straitened, is an essential part of the city's image and self-image. If the Broadway community cannot keep the mostly dark straight-play houses in the West 40's lit by attracting the new wave of American theater artists and their non-expense-account audiences, chances are that these theaters will sooner or later pass out of theatrical use. Sure, landmarking will save these architectural gems from the fate of so many lost Broadway theaters; they will not be razed for parking lots and skyscrapers. Instead they'll become churches or nightclubs or television studios like such theatrically dormant (and in some cases landmarked) venues as the Mark Hellinger, the Hudson, the Miller, the Hammerstein. Something in the city's character will have died.
This has been such a slow year on Broadway that the whole apparatus of the commercial theater seems asleep; even the much-touted plan (the Broadway Alliance) to attract new dramas to Broadway at reduced prices has rusted with disuse. Then, like a lightning bolt, came "Angels in America," a play that audiences carry around with them for days after they see it and cannot stop talking about. Speaking as a theatergoer who reached voting age just after the heyday of Miller and Williams and Albee, I feel that "Angels in America" is the most thrilling new American play of my adult lifetime. It lets in gusts of fresh air, and, like the last dramas I recall causing so large a stir on Broadway, "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" and the Peter Brook/Peter Weiss "Marat/Sade" of the 1960's, it looks glorious in an old Times Square house. The possibilities Mr. Kushner opens up for the stage -- in his challenging fusion of the epic and the intimate, the verbal and the visual, the intellectual and the fabulous -- will in time influence and perhaps attract a new generation of American playwrights. But though his play indeed boasts an angel descending from above, that angel brings only a prayer, not a miracle. "Angels in America" asks that we follow the example of its most inspiring human character, a young gay man with AIDS, and try to make our own miracles to change a country where plague runs wild and the democratic faith is frayed.
Next to the vast, spiritually troubled America that Tony Kushner surveys in his huge theatrical canvas, the theater industry presenting his play has relatively simple and mundane problems. They, too, can only be solved with hard work, fresh ideas and leaders with some vision larger than their own immediate business interests. For far too long, Broadway has depended on show-biz miracles to fall from the heavens and salvage its increasingly leaner seasons. While the success of "Angels in America" isn't going to save Broadway, you have to hope that its message will have some parochial resonance. Broadway will only be saved, after all, if it decides to save itself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fresher Voices -- Marcia Gay Harden and Stephen Spinella in Tony Kushner's "Angels in America" -- Making noise. (Joan Marcus/"Angels in America"); Tunnel Vision -- Ron Rifkin in Jon Robin Baitz's "Three Hotels" -- An Off Broadway victim of exclusionary awards. (Gerry Goodstein/"Three Hotels"); Radical -- Donnie Kehr, left, Anthony Barrile and Christian Hoff in Des McAnuff's production of "Tommy" -- Rock redux. (Marcus/Bryan-Brown/"Tommy")(pg. 31); In 1948, Broadway was booming. No longer. But younger artists and producers are trying to change the city's theatrical life. (Culver Pictures)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM (90%); THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK FRANK RICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



135 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 40; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
On the Hudson, Launching Minds Instead of Ships

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp

 BODY:
Building on its fine tradition of training first-rate minds, New York City's Stuyvesant High School has begun to groom a crop of young architecture critics. Stuyvesant has just ended its first year in its new building, an impressive $150 million complex in lower Manhattan, and some students give the place low marks. They say the light switches don't work. The pool is always closed. The building smells too new.
Hang in there, kids. This is what a shakedown year is supposed to be like. 
 Other Stuyvesant students have the makings of astute social critics. They like the new building just fine, and that's the problem. Many of them have friends who go to schools that resemble armed fortresses with crumbling walls. Why should Stuyvesant students be so fortunate? Why ask why? You would think that the school had added a course in Guilt to its already impressive curriculum of sciences and arts.
If it is any consolation, it should be said emphatically that Stuyvesant's 3,000 students are not the only, even the major, beneficiaries of their new building. The whole city gains from it. For the new Stuyvesant High School does something more than set a high standard for the design of public schools. It gives the city's waterfront a renewed sense of purpose. Located where Chambers Street meets the Hudson River, at the northern edge of Battery Park City, the school looks back to the city's industrial past and forward to its post-industrial future.
Stuyvesant has opened at a time when New York is looking for ways to reinvent the waterfront after decades of decline. Planners speak glowingly of the "green necklace" they hope to create around the city, a grand promenade of parks. It is a lovely vision but not a complete one. The waterfront does not want to be put out to pasture. It wants to be productive as well as scenic. If it can no longer support shipping, why can't it launch minds?
What a great place for a school -- especially this one! For Stuyvesant's history parallels the city's economic shift from manufacturing to information. Founded in 1904 as a manual training high school with courses geared to engineering, it went on to become one of the public school system's academic stars. In its new location, Stuyvesant joins nearby P.S. 234 and Manhattan Community College in a scholastic triumvirate. With these schools flanking its western end, Chambers Street now feels like a true urban axis, a boulevard stretching toward promise.
Designed by Cooper, Robertson & Partners, with Gruzen Samton Steinglass, as associate architects, Stuyvesant resembles a campus all on its own. Though actually one structure, the school looks like a group of five buildings clustered together on its one-and-a-half-acre site. Dominating the group is the academic tower, a 10-story block of classrooms. Twice the height of most high schools, the block is in effect two schools stacked atop each other, with a library sandwiched between them. Four smaller structures, of varying height and size, rise on the eastern and northern sides of the classroom block. These contain gymnasiums and an auditorium (both available for community use), and large halls for ceramics and carpentry shops.
This is a frankly contextual design that seeks to reflect both the industrial vernacular of the TriBeCa waterfront and the residential character of Battery Park City. In contrast to SoHo, with its small-scale cast-iron buildings, TriBeCa is filled with massive masonry factory buildings with classical proportions and detailing that give them the power of civic monuments. Stuyvesant, with its monumental scale, its walls of tan brick accented with grids of contrasting color, and the symmetrical proportions of its main facade, is their post-industrial descendant.
Alexander Cooper, chief architect for the school, was co-designer of the 1979 master plan for Battery Park City, and he has naturally followed the plan's design guidelines. The result is that the building shares the strange clash of ends and means characteristic of Battery Park City as a whole. It is torn between the progressive desire to reach beyond modern architecture toward a more urbane form of expression and the tired belief that urbane forms should be borrowed from the past.
The building's weakest moment -- and, alas, one of its most conspicuous -- occurs on the north side, where the auditorium is screened by a false facade capped with a classical pediment. The pediment, which was not included in the architects' earlier schemes, is supposed to say "theater" and to recall a beloved feature from the school's former building. Either way, the form contradicts Stuyvesant's progressive spirit. Why do minds racing along the information highway look to architecture to put on the brakes?
Stuyvesant's identity as a work place is revealed more fully inside the building. Tools get great play here. With chem labs, energy labs, robotics workshops, drafting rooms and batteries of computers, the school is a shrine to the art of industry. The interiors adhere to what Mr. Cooper calls a subway esthetic. Though fine granite lines the spacious lobby and the auditorium is paneled with wood, the building is ready for rush hour with walls of structural ceramic brick and floors of resilient tile.
The post-industrial ethos is not the rigid order of the assembly line, and Stuyvesant's design encourages individual expression within a group structure. The building expresses that idea in the contrast between the strict symmetry of the main facade and the formal diversity of the north side. Classrooms are standardized in form, but the social spaces are flexible, arranged informally around the central circulation core of stairways and escalators.
If one part of the building sums up the whole, it is the cafeteria, housed in a penthouse atop the shop block on the building's northwest corner. Designed for multiple uses, the room is irregularly shaped -- a rectangle that dissolves on two sides into a free-form configuration -- and it commands spectacular views of the river and the city. On a recent afternoon, a dance class was practicing there, and the movements of the dancers, individually expressive within a collective body, offered an idealized portrait of New York. What made the portrait so moving is that, by placing a public school where luxury housing was originally intended to rise, New York has moved measurably closer to that ideal.
Stuyvesant is the first building to be constructed by the Battery Park City Authority in its own right, instead of by private developers, and it is the first that truly imbues the site with the public dimension to which its architecture has always aspired. The Authority has long championed the ideal of connecting New Yorkers to the waterfront. Stuyvesant High School connects the waterfront to the city's future.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stuyvesant High School, with the river in the background -- An eye to both past and future. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: STUYVESANT HIGH SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REVIEWS; ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); ENGINEERING (79%); RELOCATIONS (79%); HISTORY (78%); CURRICULA (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



136 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut;
When Rivers Run Amok, Who's at Fault?

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AT 5:30 A.M. last June 6 Laura and Richard Raynor were awakened in their second-floor bedroom by frantic phone calls from neighbors telling them to get out of the house before the Quinnipiac River rose any higher than the ground floor.
One neighbor had been awakened by strange noises from the furnace and realized that Garden Road, a new street of neat, year-old houses about 75 feet from the river, was under water. 
 "We had to carry the kids out on our shoulders through water that was hip deep," said Wendy DeForge.
"It was so powerful it pushed the door right in," said Darrin Della Vecchia. Like everyone else, he had three feet of water in his kitchen and living room, and the furniture was floating upside down.
"We are still dealing with it," he said. A new kitchen floor, carpeting, furniture, accessories, stove, sheetrock and other items required taking a $15,000 loan.
The 14 affected families, new to Wallingford, were first-time home buyers. In the months since the flood they have been unsuccessful in negotiating for compensation with the town, the developer and various government agencies.
Indications that the devastation could have been foreseen and avoided are coupled with a bewildering array of happenstances for which it seems everyone and no one can be blamed.
The families, in financial difficulty and fearful of another flood, blame the developer for building houses with living space below grade level, and the town for allowing that.
Darrin and Susan Della Vecchia sued the developer in Superior Court in New Haven last Dec. 30, charging negligence, breach of contract and unfair practices, and the town, charging negligence. A hearing is set for tomorrow.
"These people were told by the developer and the town that they did not need flood insurance because they were not in a flood zone," said the Della Vecchias' lawyer, Joanne Heslin Laverty of Miniter and Associates in Hartford.
"Based on the reality of the situation," she added, "flood insurance should have been a condition of closing."
Indeed it was, but only in the few instances involving Government-backed mortgages.
"I thought they were being overcautious," said Jill Connolly about the Federal Housing Adminstration, which holds her mortgage. "They said that the living room was half a foot below flood-plain level and therefore I had to have flood insurance."
The homes were built with the utilities, living room and kitchen -- or in some models the utilities and family room -- below grade level.
"It was a method of keeping costs down to produce an affordable project," said Joan Molloy, the developer's lawyer.
David Shaw of Farren and King, a New Haven law firm, is representing the Raynors, DeForges and five other families who are about to file similar suits against the town, the developer and engineering firms.
"The houses are worthless," said Mr. Shaw. "The best bet for these people is a buyout by the entities responsible for their loss. This is a case where you have a whole development which, through a series of errors, was basically built under water."
Exactly 10 years earlier, on June 6, 1982, the Quinnipiac overflowed the same banks and flooded the same area, which was vacant then. But based on maps from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which indicated that the river's flood plain did not reach the building sites, the subdivision of 18 homes got town approval in 1989.
It was built by Donald Ahearn, a well-known local developer and owner of Factory Built Homes Inc. He paid $720,000 for the six acres and several existing foundations built by Hanover Wallingford Associates, builders from whom he bought the property and the approved plans. By early 1992 14 homes had been sold for $124,000 to $135,000. Two remaining foundations, one vacant lot and one unsold house are currently in limbo.
"Until this is cleared up we will not issue building permits or a certificate of occupancy to the developer," said Janet Small, the town attorney.
"The town is in fact liable for the whole mess," said Diane Lord of the Marcus Law Firm in New Haven, representing the developer in the Della Vecchia suit.
It seems there were two sets of flood elevations -- the FEMA maps, which the town and the developer used, and those of the Soil Conservation Service of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.
"WE did a study in 1989 for the original developer," said Philip A. Renn, water resources coordinator for the Soil Conservation Service, "showing that the property was flood-prone and not suitable for residential development."
Ms. Molloy said that Mr. Ahearn "never received that study" and that if he had "he would not have bought the property."
Compounding the problem, Linda Bush, Wallingford's town planner, noted that "we relied on FEMA's flood elevations, which were in error by about two feet."
Kenneth Horak, public information officer at FEMA's regional office in Boston, said "the error was made by a contractor who developed the maps in the late 70's."
"The United States Geological Survey is now considering what impact that may have had," he said. "Their report is expected this month."
"Development within watersheds plays a role in situations like this, especially when combined with heavy rainfall," said Charles E. Berger, assistant director of water resources at the D.E.P. in Hartford. "The more you turn vacant land into pavement and rooftops the less chance you have for rainfall to infiltrate the ground. It runs off into the rivers.
"Attention to the Soil Conservation study could have prevented this. Had we been consulted by the town the study would have had an impact on our opinion, which is advisory, not mandatory. However, the town acted in accordance with its legally adopted flood insurance map and regulations."
Remedies suggested for Garden Road include raising the houses and building a dike, requiring displacement of the homeowners, possibly at their own expense. Mr. Berger indicated that the project did not qualify for Federal buyout funds. And based on appraisals of similar houses in the area, reduced in value by the recession, buyouts would fall short of the residents' expectations.
"I guess the cautionary tale here," said Mr. Shaw, "is that you can do everything you're supposed to do as an informed consumer and still get burned."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last June, the Quinnipiac River flooded Wallingford, affecting 14 families on Garden Road with living space below grade level. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALLINGFORD (CONN); QUINNIPIAC RIVER UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FLOODS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FLOOD INSURANCE REAL ESTATE (90%); RIVERS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); FAMILY (87%); LITIGATION (86%); NEGLIGENCE (86%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); FLOOD INSURANCE (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (64%); CONTRACTS LAW (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%); 

PERSON: AHEARN, DONALD; CHARLES, ELEANOR DAVID SHAW (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



137 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: New Canaan

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
IN much of the 19th century, New Canaan was a community of farmers, blacksmiths, carpenters, weavers and coopers. One day in 1830 the owner of Hoyt's General Store on Main Street had an attack of temperance and smashed his stock of liquor on the roadway. An astonished citizenry watched as all that good rum, gin and bourbon sank into the dust.
"The general store was where you bought liquor," said Mary Louise King, historian of what is now part of Connecticut's Gold Coast. "The town would vote to be wet or dry, back and forth every few years. We used to have more liquor stores than groceries, and until 1915 we had more Democrats than Republicans." 
 Some 18th century houses are still scattered around town, vastly improved as prized antiques. One remaining commercial building, the 200-year old sawmill by the waterfall on Jelliff Mill Road, continues to crank out fancy wood moldings.
Shoemaking was a principal industry for more than a century, but in the 1870's the 50,000 handmade pairs produced annually could not compete with new machines in the big cities, and local workers started moving elsewhere to earn a living.
By that time wealthy New Yorkers had begun trickling in to build summer homes. The trickle became a flood of year-round residents during the 1950's exodus from the cities.
A recent Forbes Magazine article about corporate America's most powerful people "reads like the New Canaan telephone directory," according to the The New Canaan Advertiser, a local weekly. Resident chief executives include Paul Allaire of Xerox, Robert D. Kennedy of Union Carbide, John W. Johnstone Jr. of the Olin Corporation and Andrew C. Sigler of Champion International.
Not surprisingly, the town is a mecca for architects. Currently for sale is a house designed by Marcel Breuer, priced at $2.35 million, and one for $1.25 million by Philip Johnson, who still occupies his own famous Glass House. A Frank Lloyd Wright house sold last year for $3.5 million. "I try to promote the contemporary style," said Barbara Cleary, owner of The Realty Guild, a local agency, "because we have some beauties."
Except for an occasional unwanted visitor breaking into David Letterman's house, life in New Canaan is relatively quiet, and that's how people like it. "My city friends are shocked when they realize that I don't lock my car," said Richard Mishkin, a broker with Coldwell Banker Realty on Elm Street.
"Change here is evolutionary, not revolutionary," said Daniel Foley, the town planner. "There is still land to develop, but in small pieces of six to eight acres," he said. Zoning was devised decades ago to confine nonresidential development to the center of town.
Apartment-building rentals and condominiums (mostly town houses and comprising 25 percent of the housing) are clustered around the business district of Main, Forest and Elm Streets and zoning radiates outward. Minimum one-family-home lot sizes range from 0.25 to 4 acres.
The 100 independent downtown shops aim for unusual clothing, silver, sporting goods, art, books, housewares, antiques and gourmet foods. The International Herald Tribune can be found on the newspaper racks of gas stations.
RESTAURANTS have increased at a rate of two or three a year. Now there are 27 establishments, compared with two luncheonettes in the early 1970's.
The Roger Sherman Inn, built in 1740, serves a continental fixed price dinner for $44, excluding wine, and L'Abbee, rated one of the top three restaurants in the Zagat suburban survey, has a signature shrimp and lobster entree at $23.50.
Unlimited play at New Canaan's 13 town tennis courts costs $43, and $20 covers a family at Kiwanis Park, where a pond for swimming and ice skating and a children's playground are available. There are six paddle tennis courts, the 40-acre Nature Center, six bird sanctuaries and five parks with baseball diamonds, hiking and fishing, all free. There are also several private country clubs and sports clubs.
Among some 100 civic, cultural and professional organizations are the Audubon Society, Alliance Francaise, Gentlemen Songsters, Embroiderer's Guild, Americares (a locally based international relief organization), National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Business and Professional Women's Club and New Canaan Bar Association.
The Town Players has its own theater in Waveny Park, a 300-acre public facility where mammoth Fourth of July town picnics are held, and the prestigious Silvermine Guild Arts Center, a 71-year-old gallery and art school that presents concerts and lectures.
A new auditorium was just completed at the public library, where, says David Bryant, its director, "we have a per capita readership of 17 books a year, about the highest in the state." For executives who have been victims of corporate downsizing, a job-search service with reprints of classified ads in 64 newspapers across the country has been installed.
There have been some recessionary foreclosures, but the economy caused barely a ripple in housing sales, except to cut prices around 20 percent. Construction and sales of homes priced from $500,000 to more than $1 million has continued, but "young couples have been buying resales in the $300,000 range with a 10 percent down payment," said Mr. Mishkin of Coldwell Banker Realty.
At Broad Brook Farm off Ponus Ridge Road, customized five-bedroom homes at $700,000 to $1 million are being built by Robert and William Feeber on 1- and 2-acre lots, while large homes on quarter-acre lots are available at Canaan Meadow for $495,000.
Out of a total of 6,948 dwellings in town, 267 houses and 45 condominiums are for sale. Some 62 houses are listed at over $1 million, and 116 are priced from $200,000 to $500,000. Luxurious summer rentals can cost up to $32,000, but rentals start around $1,000 a month.
The highly rated public school system's 2,605 pupils attending three elementary schools, Saxe Middle School and New Canaan High School, 93 percent of whose graduates went on to college last June. The latest addition to the high school curriculum is Japanese Language and Culture, a two-year program culminating in a trip to Japan.
Plans are afoot for a fourth elementary school to accomodate a baby boomlet, and a seven-year physical ugrading of all school buildings is under way. The combined estimated cost is $37 million.
ST. LUKE'S, a college preparatory school, and the k-9 New Canaan Country Day are independent private schools where tuition reaches a high of $11,000. St. Aloysius, a k-8 Roman Catholic School, charges $1,800 a year.
Among six nursery schools and five day-care facilities, the Y.M.C.A. offers programs for children 6 weeks old through 5 years. Maximum hours are 7:30 A.M. to 6 P.M. five days a week and fees range from $140 a month for part-timers to $910 a month full-time, year round.
An equestrian school for children and adults is run by The New Canaan Mounted Troop, one of the last junior cavalries in the country. Children may start at age 5 and horse shows are presented periodically in a large indoor ring with a glass-fronted viewing room. Fees start at $127 a month for weekly lessons, or $20 an hour without instruction.
New Canaan's Historical Society, on Oenoke Ridge, "is more like a Colonial village," said its director, Janet Lindstrom, with a schoolhouse, the studion of John Rogers, a popular turn-of-the-century sculptor: the first town hall, a tool museum, library, restored homes and a printing press. A new building will soon be added to accommodate an overflowing collection of antique costumes, books, artifacts, art and furniture, and the archives.
On Christmas Eve the town is ablaze with lights and resonant with caroling at God's Acre, the historic district overlooking Main Street. It was so named because it has three churches, built between 100 and 200 years ago, surrounding a small park that once served as the first settlers' burying ground.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Main Street in New Canaan offers independent shops that aim for the unusual as well as the basics. Broad Brook Farm, below left, is being developed as customized colonial homes. On Brushy Ridge Road, former carriage-house complex adds a distinctive look. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 
Chart: "Gazetteer"
 
Population: 17,864 (1990 census).
 
Area: 22 square miles.
 
Median family income: $91,951 (1990 census).
 
Median price of one-family house: $500,000.
 
Tax on median-priced house: $4,592.
 
Median 2-bedroom condominium price: $275,000.
 
Median one-family house rent: $2,700.
 
Median 2-bedroom rent: $1,900.
 
Distance to midtown Manhattan: 41 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: 1 hour 9 minutes on Metro-North ($8.25 one-way, $186 monthly).
 
Public school per-pupil expenditure: $9,540.
 
Government: 3-member Board of Selectmen, elected to 2-year terms, 12-member Town Council, elected to 4-year terms; First Selectman: Louis J. Moreno, Republican.
 
Codes: Area, 203; ZIP, 06840.
 
Helping Hands: For the last few years high school graduates whose families have been hit by the recession have been quietly receiving assistance in the form of evening gowns and tuxedos that they may borrow for the Senior Prom, which was held last Friday at the Stamford Sheraton. The clothes are donated by local families and altered by volunteers.
 
Map of New Canaan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (65%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLIN CORP (65%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW CANAAN (CONN) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (77%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); SAW MILLS (73%); HISTORY (73%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (54%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DAVID LETTERMAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



138 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Regional Planning Conference;
Workshops on Making the Area Work

 BODY:
Anyone who believes that "united we stand" is as applicable to states as to people might enjoy the Regional Plan Association's day-long conference this Tuesday. The association, which is dedicated to getting New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to set joint policies that can improve the quality of life in all three states, says that by day's end a blueprint will have emerged for turning this area into "The Region That Works."
The meeting will offer a series of workshops dealing with such subjects as rebuilding and expanding the region's infrastructure, protecting its environmental resources, training its labor, and ways of wooing companies -- and jobs -- to the area. 
 There will be specific workshops on how to turn the region's seven unconnected railway systems into a coordinated regional one, as well as on how to best develop land adjacent or close to transit. Another workshop will discuss the impact that immigrants have had on the region in the last decade or so and what the expected impact of future immigration will be.
The meeting's ultimate goal, according to H. Claude Shostal, the association's president, is to "show how thinking regionally will strengthen our position in the emerging global economy."
The meeting, which costs $85 (including lunch) for association members and $100 for others, will be held from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. at the New York Hilton. For more information, or to reserve a spot, call (212) 398-1140, ext. 201.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LABOR; CORPORATIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; VOCATIONAL TRAINING CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CITIES (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); IMMIGRATION (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



139 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 17; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Quest to Conserve Electrical Power

 BODY:
It is unfortunate that "Lilco Ends a Homeowners' Rebate Program" [May 16] further confuses a complicated issue. There are two central issues facing those of us active in the fields of energy analysis, conservation and demand-side management. The first concerns are the quality, cost-effectiveness and long-term viability of utility demand-side management programs. The second is the methodology that the New York State Public Service Commission uses to allow Lilco and other New York State utilities to recover energy-conservation costs through the rate base. And while these two issues affect each other, it is important to make distinctions between the two. 
 According to recent filings with the P.S.C., Lilco's Residential Energy Cooperative was budgeted at $2.2 million for 1993, as the most expensive of Lilco's residential programs; was expected to reduce capacity or demand by 16.3 megawatts, the largest reduction of Lilco's residential programs, and was predicted to save 334 megawatt-hours of energy or customer use. This kilowatt-hour, or dollar savings, to customers is one of the smallest, second only to the Residential New Construction program, with a 248-megawatt-hour savings. The P.S.C. has been directing Lilco to scale down the Residential Energy Cooperative for several years and has recently asked Lilco to review the Residential New Construction program. Lilco had removed almost all the switching boxes from electric hot-water heaters by the end of 1992 and was in the process of curtailing other segments of the cooperative program. As well it should, since the cooperative program was based on load control or peak shaving, not energy conservation.
It is further unfortunate that none of your sources were able to produce a viable alternative to the program. An enlightened energy service company like the Conservation Services Group might have seen that having access to 22,000 customers with 5,500 electric water heaters and 16,500 central air-conditioners was a golden opportunity. Retrofitting or replacing inefficient equipment, duct work or control systems would produce considerable long-term energy savings.
The Conservation Services Group is the parent organization of the Energy Federation, the supplier of 139,282 compact fluorescents to Lilco customers in the past two years. Fortunately the $6 rebate is now available through local retailers, and if 1993 sales on Long Island match the Energy Federation's efforts, an additional $1.2 million in retail dollars might stay within the Long Island economy.
Mr. Kessel, as executive director of the State Consumer Protection Board, has a public duty to object to Lilco's surcharge request. But as chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, a group that has put more effort into converting the Shoreham plant than implementing energy conservation, his motives are questionable. The Citizens' Advisory Panel was formed in 1989 through a Federal court decision, "to study and advise Lilco and the public concerning ways to improve electric service, to mitigate rate increases, and to assist ratepayers to conserve energy." I know Mr. Chaleff is committed to energy conservation, but it has taken the panel several years to realize the enormity of the work ahead.
It is relatively simple to replace or retrofit lights in the commercial sector, estimating savings is straightforward, and the dollars saved are impressive. Interestingly enough, there are some 66,162 residents, or 7 percent of the Long Island population, that have no access to demand-side management or energy-conservation projects from their utilities. As customers of municipal electric systems, the New York Power Authority or the Fishers Island Electric Corporation, there are no mandates nor directives from the P.S.C., and as the New York Power Authority has learned in several upstate municipal electric systems, conventional energy-conservation methodology does not have a great success rate in the residential sector.
This is not to say that Long Island homeowners cannot have energy conservation and demand-side management projects that routinely reduce energy bills by 30 to 40 percent, just that conventional methods won't do it. Conventional is what we have now, and while I do not disagree with Lise Marshall from the New England Sustainable Energy Association, Long Island is not New England, and it is indicative of the predicament of our knowledge and resources that there is no local group to contract for the equivalent information.
 
FRAZER DOUGHERTY
Greenport
 
The writer heads an energy-retrofitting business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (50%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REBATES NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); RETAILERS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: DOUGHERTY, FRAZER

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



140 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: 'This Town Will Die Without Our School'

BYLINE: By ELISABETH GINSBURG

DATELINE: KENILWORTH

 BODY:
THIS Union County borough is a self-contained place. Most of its 7,574 residents are employed nearby and shop in the strip of stores along Kenilworth Boulevard. "It's the kind of town where you're born, you go to school, get married, raise a family and die," said Janet Glynos, a Kenilworth native.
Now, forces inside and outside the community have combined to endanger its way of life. Since 1970, the population has declined by almost 1,600 people. A new shopping center and supermarket are going up on one end of town, threatening the downtown businesses. And David Brearley Regional High School, which Charles Vitale, a former school board president, calls "the social and civic hub of the town," is scheduled to be closed at the end of the 1993 school year. 
 The threatened closing of the school and dispatch of its students to another school in the regional district reflects concerns that are felt in many parts of the state where enrollments have been falling and school costs skyrocketing. The pressure to save money by merging school districts, for example, inspired the recent enactment of state legislation to provide incentives for such "regionalization."
But the prospect of losing their high school has led many of Brearley's parents to mount an intense campaign to save the school. In the process, they have sued the school district. They have also inspired a bill now before the State Legislature that would actually make it easier to dissolve existing regional districts and permit member schools, like Brearley, to go their own ways.
Ever since the 1930's, Kenilworth and the nearby towns of Berkeley Heights, Clark, Garwood, Mountainside and Springfield have been linked by participation in Union County Regional High School District No. 1. The district's four high schools are supervised by a district board and superintendent.
Socially and economically, Kenilworth and Garwood, whose students also attend Brearley, have little in common with the four other towns in the school district. Kenilworth has a median family income of $45,774, while the wealthiest of the district's towns, Mountainside, has a median family income of $80,699. About 9 percent of Kenilworth's residents are college graduates, as opposed to about 33 percent in Berkeley Heights and Mountainside, and 27 in Springfield.
"We're blue-collar people," said Mrs. Glynos, one of the leaders of S.O.S. (Save Our School). She characterizes Kenilworth as a town of small family-owned businesses, where houses are passed down from parents to their grown children.
Over the last 20 years, enrollment in the four regional high schools has gone from a high of 5,798 in 1972-73 to the current enrollment of 2,163. The yearly average cost per pupil has risen from just over $3,000 in 1980-81 to about $15,000 in 1992-93.
In the spring of 1990 and again in 1991, voters rejected the district's school budget proposals. After the budget defeats, the board began to examine ways of cutting costs, including the closing of one or more of the four schools, and in September 1991 the Brearley parents organized to fight such a move. "We didn't want to see it happen to anyone," Mrs. Glynos said.
In the spring of 1992, S.O.S. campaigned in behalf of the district school budget in the belief, Mrs. Glynos said, that Dr. Donald Merachnik, the district Superintendent, had promised that Brearley would stay open if the budget was accepted. (Tom Long, the spokesman for the district, denies that any such promise was given.)
Among the voters the organization pursued were the borough's elderly residents. Charles Vitale, who is now president of the Kenilworth Senior Citizens, said that by far the majority of elderly residents supported the idea of keeping the local school open.
"Our taxes will go up anyway," he said, adding that the members of his group had backed S.O.S. because Brearley is such an integral part of the close-knit community's way of life.
The 1992 school budget was passed. Then, in October of that year, Dr. Merachnik presented a 27-page report that recommended, among other things, that Brearley High School's 400 students be "reassigned" to Jonathan Dayton High School in Springfield. The Brearley building would then be leased, the report said, possibly to another district, with its classrooms, auditorium and playing fields to remain available, if possible, to the Kenilworth community.
In November, the district board voted to carry out Dr. Merachnik's recommendations. Only the board representatives from Kenilworth and Garwood voted against the proposal.
 
'We Were Devastated'
 "We were devastated by the decision," said Linda McMenamin, president of the Brearley High School Parent-Teacher Association. Mrs. McMenamin also said she thought the Kenilworth school had been "targeted" for closing because Kenilworth and Garwood are the least affluent of the six towns.
The day after the November board vote, S.O.S. hired a lawyer, Robert P. Glickman, a former New Jersey Superior Court administrative law judge, who sued the regional district in Superior Court to stop the closing. He charged that the decision to close Brearley was "capricious" and made without sufficient time for the board to study alternative solutions.
While Mr. Glickman prepared for trial, S.O.S. began enlisting community support and sponsoring cake sales and auctions to raise money for legal expenses.
The trial last month produced a cavalcade of lawyers and expert witnesses and boxes of documents. Experts on both sides testified on the physical condition of all four buildings, the economic and educational advantages and disadvantages of high schools with 400 students (like Brearley) or 800 students (the approximate number of students in the three remaining high schools after the closing of Brearley), and the effect that Brearley's closing would have on Kenilworth property values. As of June 2, no decision had been rendered.
 
School Budget Rejected
 Though only Kenilworth and Garwood face school closings, voters in all six of the district's towns rejected the proposed 1993 school budget because of the growing school costs.
There is also substantial support in several of the towns for Assembly Bill No. 2294, introduced in February. Sponsored by Union County legislators, the bill would permit the dissolving of a regional district with an average per-pupil cost of $15,000 or more a year if approved by the majority of the member towns. Current law requires a unanimous vote. A companion bill has been introduced in the State Senate. S.O.S. has lobbied for the bill with an extensive letter-writing campaign.
If the parents' organization succeeds in its effort to prevent the closing of Brearley, Mrs. Glynos says, the goal will be to remove the school from the regional district and to enrich its course offerings by making arrangements with neighboring educational institutions like Union County College.
But the central issue for her and the other members of S.O.S. is to save Brearley and its special relationship to Kenilworth. "This town will die without our school," Mrs. McMenamin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DAVID BREARLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL (KENILWORTH, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: DAVID BREARLEY REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL (KENILWORTH, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; KENILWORTH (NJ) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENROLLMENT; FINANCES; SUITS AND LITIGATION SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); 

PERSON: GINSBURG, ELISABETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



141 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 16; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Photography That Is Immune From the 'Romance' of Labor

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
IT seems to be getting closer, the utopian heaven in which machines do all the work, leaving people free, as it were, to produce art or go sport fishing. Yet, to judge from Sebastiao Salgado's photographs at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, hard labor is still the lot of the majority.
At the port of Chittagong, in Bangladesh, for instance, there are beached ships to be demolished manually by blowtorch and sledgehammer. In Java, livings are made harvesting sulfur from the lake boiling in the crater of a volcano. But with the seven-hour climb up to the crater and the return trip loaded down with 155 pounds of the mineral, not to mention the fumes encountered on the way, each gleaner has to rest two days for every one worked. 
 Alternatively, there is, maybe, a fortune to be made prospecting for gold at the Serra Pelada gold mine, in the photographer's native country, Brazil. During the relatively dry winter, 50,000 men descend daily into this strip-mine-sized cavity. Looking like dung beetles from afar, they fill sacks with earth and lug them back up to the top by way of ramshackle ladders. One of the many homosexuals working in this hell hopes to find the nuggets that will get him to Paris for the silicone breasts that, he says, are the best in the world.
These facts are taken from an essay written by Mr. Salgado and Eric Nepomuceno for "Workers: An Archeology of the Industrial Age," the Aperture book that shares its title with the show. Hefting this eight-pound paperback is basic training for any of the occupations documented by the photographer.
Mr. Salgado's art is informed by his early training as an economist; his comments about the wealth made on commodities exchanges versus the wages paid for the growing, extracting and processing of these raw materials are most enlightening.
Still, it is hard to imagine him making the same impact with his writing as he does with his black-and-white pictures. He delivers his points laconically and, unlike many photojournalists with a mission, seems immune to the "romance" of labor and, far from inciting his viewers to mount the barricades, leaves them to infer what they will.
There is enormous power in these images. How could there not be with subjects like the woman laboring over a canal in northern India who hacks at desert, her upraised arms with bangles from wrist to elbow? There is also beauty bordering on the picturesque, as in the well-known scenes of Texans cleaning up the oil disaster in Kuwait -- an omen of "the fire next time" if ever there was one.
Although the photographer is said never to pose them, his compositions are astonishingly clean-cut, and at least one, the scene of Cuban cane cutters resting, looks like a movie still. More than anything else, the prints have the look of early 19th-century French Realist painting -- there is even a "Carmen" making Cuban cigars -- and it may be this that prompts criticism from younger, less successful photographers.
Although most of the action takes place in third-world countries, the first world is not omitted. Among the Channel Tunnel shots is one of the workers on the English side that is noteworthy for including Australians but no one from the African or Caribbean part of the Commonwealth.
In the catalogue, Mr. Salgado mentions fears that are often voiced in pubs but seldom in conventional news coverage: "For the first time since 1066, the English have been invaded from the Continent -- from France, no less" -- and by a tunnel bringing "barbarians." The photographer believes that English sandhogs "cannot admit that deep down they feel like accomplices to a frightening defeat."
France, Poland, Russia and Ukraine are represented by heavy industry; the conveyor belt in the picture reproduced moves coal and iron ore to Dunkirk. The only thing to speak for the United States is the slaughterhouse in Sioux Falls, S.D. One butcher hoses down a bull's head complete with one open liquid eye; another eviscerates pig corpses that look human. But as ghastly as any is the image of a barn packed with live pigs getting their last shower -- from a sprinkler system. One thinks not only of the terror coursing through their plump bodies but also of concentration camp inmates getting their "last shower" in the gas chambers. 
Though many of the photographs are ostensibly about nothing but beauty -- the view of razor-sharp peaks on the island of Reunion, for example -- this huge exhibition is guaranteed to leave its beholders as alarmed for the globe as for its insatiable inhabitants.
The closing date is July 11. Museum hours are 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Tuesday through Sunday, until 8 P.M. Wednesdays.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Photograph by Sebastiao Salgado showing conveyor belt moving coal and iron ore. (Philadelphia Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH INDIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH INDIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); SURFACE MINING (74%); MINES & MINING (73%); GOLD MINING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SPORT FISHING (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (72%); PROSPECTING & EXPLORATION (69%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); OIL SPILLS (60%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN; SALGADO, SEBASTIAO SEBASTIAO SALGADO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



142 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Q & A: Roy Gillian;
Lessons in Running an Amusement Park

BYLINE: By HELEN PIKE

DATELINE: OCEAN CITY

 BODY:
Roy Gillian followed his father into the amusement park business, and he has, in turn, brought his three sons, Jim, Steve and Jay, into the operation of Gillian's Wonderland Pier. It is something of a landmark in this seaside resort, which was founded as a summer colony for vacationing Methodists at the turn of the century.
And Mr. Gillian himself, at 63 years of age, has achieved considerable stature -- in Ocean City, where he was once the Mayor; in Trenton, where he has often appeared before the Legislature as a member and former president of the 200-member New Jersey Amusement Association, and in the councils of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions, an organization with more than 3,000 members in 54 countries, which he now serves as president. 
 Among other duties, he is leading the organization's drive to create an international amusement park museum. A feasibility study is under way for a Virginia site just outside Washington, that Mr. Gillian hopes will be complete with a Hall of Fame, a 50-seat theater with robots, a panorama depicting the history of amusement parks, a roller-coaster simulator and an area where different parks around the world could set up booths to display videos and mementos.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gillian is taking his amusement park through its first month of operation this year. "There are always happy faces out there," he said in a recent interview, looking toward the most prized possession among his 33 rides: the No. 75 carousel, hand carved by the Philadelphia Toboggan Company in 1922.
There are only two others in New Jersey, he said -- one at Seaside Park and the other at Great Adventure in Jackson Township.
"Sometimes when young married people have children, they just can't wait to give them their first merry-go-round ride," Mr. Gillian said. "And they get on there, and they have as much fun as the kids."
Mr. Gillian and his wife, Patricia, an apartment-house manager, live in Ocean City.
Q: Are you praying for a hot summer?
A: Well, I think everybody in the amusement business prays for that. Without a doubt, this spring has gotten off to a great start. So everybody is very happy.
Q: Will beach erosion be much of a problem for business this year?
A: I flew down along the beach when I came home from visiting amusement park owners in New England, and I noticed North Jersey got hit pretty good. But it wasn't nearly as bad as Long Island.
You know, some people say it's a waste of money to keep refilling the beaches, but when you think about all the property that's here, you know, it's definitely a good insurance policy, which is our way of thinking.
Q: Do the amusement park owners work with the police departments in the summer?
A: Yes, we do. As an association, we also succeeded in getting a bill through the Legislature this year that protects us against civil suits if we put somebody off a ride because they're under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Here in Ocean City, though, we're lucky because the town is dry.
Q: Has the recession had much of an impact on the amusement business?
A: You know, in all fairness, even last year I beat the year before.
Q: You did?
A: I've heard that expressed by a number of the parks. My father's favorite saying is, "No matter how bad times are, a father will always have some money to spend on his kids for a merry-go-round ride."
I think that always holds true, and this is 29 summers coming up, and for the 28th, or I would say 27 out of 28 years, I've increased my gross each year. Parks that are constantly trying to update and add new equipment each year seem to do just a little bit better.
Q: What's the edge you have over the huge theme parks?
A: I've been lucky here. People come for the ocean and the beach. We do most all our business at nighttime; when the people are off the beach, they come to the boardwalk.
But I think Disney set the pace years ago for the theme parks. They're beautifully laid out and landscaped. They handle the customers as guests. They've been a great inspiration to all the small parks in trying their best to make their own surroundings pleasing. And to increase their level of safety.
Q: Are you concerned at all about Time Warner buying out amusement parks?
A: Time Warner is the controlling interest in all the Six Flags Great Adventure parks. Paramount, Disney, Universal, Cedar Point -- they're all on the New York Stock Exchange -- major conglomerates that are into the amusement industry. They have so much money behind them that they can afford to do a lot. But people when they go to them, it's like an outing they plan on.
With us, see, we're different because people come to the seashore. But I guess if enough big parks come around and they saturate a certain area, well, the little guy is going to be the one to suffer.
Q: Do you think they will make you an offer you can't refuse?
A: I've been asked what would I do. And I don't think I would ever sell, because I have three sons that are coming up, and they're in the business and I'm doing well now and I don't think money would change that around.
My youngest son, he just loves it. I mean, he sleeps and eats it, and I think he will be the one to carry it over the 100-year mark. My father started in 1930, so we're over the 60-year mark. And I think by the time I'm really ready to retire and my youngest boy carries it on, we'll be celebrating that 100 years.
Q: Have you seen the clientele change?
A: It depends on location. Seaside gets a lot of the New York traffic that comes down. We get the suburban Philadelphia, Cherry Hill area. I haven't really seen much of a change.
I know some of the parks have people out taking information as they come through the gate. A lot of them use zip codes. They like to see where the people come so they can know where to spend their money in advertising.
Q: Have you added any new rides for this year?
A: Well, the only thing that we did new this year is this one kiddie ride, and that was Willy the Whale -- that's right out on the front of the boardwalk here. Last year was the Log Flume, and that was the big addition.
Q: Is your City Jet Roller Coaster still the biggest money maker?
A: No. It's the Log Flume. It really did well.
Q: What rides did your father, Dave Gillian, start out with?
A: A merry-go-round, a Ferris wheel and a tilt-a-whirl -- most every park has one, or every carnival. They're the standard.
Q: You can build a park on those three?
A: Yes. Know why? Kids and adults will go on them, and that's the key to success. Getting something that appeals to both ages. I don't even buy a kiddie ride now unless the adults can get in the car with them. Even the little whales will hold adults.
We got a couple of rides out here where just kids get in, and the gross just never matches with the one where you can get the adults in there with them. Because I still think the adults like it as much as the kids.
Q: How about bungee jumping -- will that still be popular this year?
A: I think it hit its peak last year. The state is going to stop them from jumping off cranes. By the time the legislation gets through the chain of command, requiring that you build a tower and at a certain height, with a pillow underneath, it'll be late in the season. Bungee jumping is like the trampolines and other fads. You do it for a little while, but it's not a repeat thing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roy Gillian near Gillian's Wonderland Pier, which he owns and operates. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GILLIAN'S WONDERLAND PIER (OCEAN CITY, NJ) MERRY-GO-ROUND ENTERPRISES INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: GILLIAN'S WONDERLAND PIER (OCEAN CITY, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MAYORS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); RESORTS (72%); MARRIAGE (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); EROSION (60%); 

PERSON: GILLIAN, ROY (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); GILLIAN, ROY; PIKE, HELEN

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



143 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 12; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Susan Webb, Jean Dreyfus

 BODY:
Susan Patterson Webb, a managing principal at Paribas Capital Markets, was married yesterday to Jean Francoise Dreyfus, a vice president at Credit Suisse Financial Products Inc., both in New York. The Rev. David T. Lowman, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Covenant Presbyterian Church in Petersburg, Va. Cantor Fernand Peres took part in the ceremony.
Mrs. Webb-Dreyfus is the group head of the equity derivatives department of the New York securities branch of Banque Paribas of Paris. She graduated from the University of Virginia, from which she also received an M.B.A. She is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Robert B. Webb of Petersburg. 
 Mr. Dreyfus received an M.B.A. from l'Ecole Superieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales in Paris and a Ph.D. in finance from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Germain Dreyfus of Paris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (92%); BNP (BIT) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (86%); 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: WEBB, SUSAN PATTERSON (SUSAN PATTERSON WEBB-DREYFUS); DREYFUS, JEAN FRANCOISE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



144 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Dollar Gains In Finland

 BODY:
American visitors to Finland this year will find many prices dramatically lower than two years ago, thanks to a sharp drop in the value of the Finnish currency and a recession in that country.
According to a study conducted at the end of 1992 by Suomen Gallup Oy, a Finnish polling organization, which compared the prices for such staples as hotel rooms and a McDonald's Big Mac in 12 Western European capitals, Helsinki fell below the median on all types of lodging and most restaurant purchases, as well as train travel and airline tickets. Exceptions included taxi fares, car rental and food bought at a grocery. 
 The Finnish markka was devalued twice in the last two and a half years, for a total of 30 percent. In the spring of 1991, the markka was worth about 27 cents in United States currency; late last month, it was about 18 cents.
Inflation has remained low and, in some cases, prices have actually gone down. At the elegant Hotel Klaus Kurki, on the fashionable Bulevardi in downtown Helsinki, prices for a double have declined from $230 in 1991 to $153 on weekdays or $90 on weekends in 1993. At Restaurant Lord, Lonnrotinkatu 29 in Helsinki, telephone 680 1680, which was awarded one Michelin star this year, the three-course Finlandia menu -- salted salmon in cognac, reindeer in cepe sauce and cloudberry crepes -- including tip and taxes, costs about $32 a person, compared to $52 in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ML (PAR) (55%); MIH (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (91%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FINLAND; UNITED STATES EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (91%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); FAST FOOD (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); DEVALUATION (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (70%); TRAINS (70%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



145 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
New Curves in the Currency Game

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:
FOREIGN markets provide at least 40 percent of the profits for the nation's 500 largest companies, so those companies are always desperate to find shelter from currency trading tempests. The more so now that the world's mightiest currencies are getting bumped around like a bunch of biotech stocks. Several leading manufacturers are feuding with securities and accounting authorities over proposed rules that, they say, would compound the risks of competing abroad, discouraging investment.
To the authorities, the issue is whether accounting standards can be twisted to disguise currency risks from investors. "How well do we serve investors in those situations by working up some accounting conventions so things look nice and stable?" said Halsey G. Bullen, a manager at the Financial Accounting Standards Board. "How well does that reflect economic reality? Life is volatile sometimes." 
 But manufacturers say that, when it comes to currencies, they can smooth out many of life's bumps. Merck and Company, for example, reaps about half its nearly $10 billion in sales from about 40 foreign countries. To keep declining currencies from hurting earnings as they are converted into dollars, Merck buys options that rise in value as currencies fall. (Options afford the right to buy or sell a certain amount of currency at a fixed price until a specified date.)
Other companies likewise hedge the cost of foreign investments and materials, including supplies imported to the United States. For many, including Eastman Kodak, currency risks even influence plant locations.
As the dollar strengthened during the early 1980's, hedging strategies were still in their infancy, and many companies were left naked. With each pound or franc worth fewer dollars, the value of Merck's foreign sales and profits fell by as much as a third. Annual increases in research spending, calibrated to the likely returns, fell by almost half.
Now, many manufacturers have their own currency strategists and traders. But glowering behind them, threatening to spoil all the fun, are the regulators.
When a currency hedge creates a loss today, they say, why should accounting rules let a Merck avoid reporting it on the mere anticipation of recouping with foreign sales? Many officials favor strict accounting of such losses, which would inevitably discourage currency hedging.
The value of options and other means of hedging bounce around with the underlying currencies. Having to figure the gains and losses into quarterly earnings could make a stable company seem more like a risky offshore hedge fund. Stock investors award premiums for consistent earnings growth but penalize zigs and zags.
As long as currency hedges offset signed contracts or deals to be completed within three months, companies can keep them off their earnings reports. Merck and many others, however, want to plan perhaps five years out. Hedging can produce sharp short-term gains or losses, but can help assure that profits expected in the long term -- from the building of a new plant or research on a new drug -- aren't swallowed up in interim currency turmoil.
"Foreign exchange can throw a ringer into a lot of good plans," said Judy Lewent, Merck's chief financial officer. A member of the accounting board's advisory panel, she has rallied other companies and brought in accounting board members to hear Merck's case. "The core capabilities of a company are its business and that's the risk a company should be focused on," she said. "Foreign currency swings can be hedged away."
By early last year, the accounting board's corporate advisers wanted to let the corporate currency doctors try a whole new range of treatments. Riskier, long-term hedges were to be permitted without having to report the direct quarterly consequences, on the assumption that the hedges and the eventual foreign sales or purchases would balance out in the end.
Then the S.E.C. stepped in.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has made the accounting board the master of ceremonies, reserving the right to stop the party if things get too raucous. Accountants are seldom a wild bunch. But about a year ago, Walter P. Schuetze, the S.E.C.'s chief accountant, not only forestalled the loosening of the rules, but also forbade companies from keeping some complicated option hedges off their quarterly results.
Mr. Schuetze rejects Merck's argument that, because foreign drug sales are bound to offset today's hedging losses, earnings statements need not reflect those losses. "These products are going to be produced a year from now, three years from now, five years from now," Mr. Schuetze boomed through a speaker phone. "They exist only in the mind of the plant manager."
Early this year, the accounting board tentatively proposed a requirement that losses and gains from even the simplest options be reported. A decision awaits the arrival of two new board members (out of seven).
Executives at McDonald's, which opens new restaurants overseas at the rate of more than one a day, say that the accounting board's rules keep them from hedging their currency risks as much as broad business considerations would dictate. "The real purpose of accounting should be to reflect the true economics of the situation," said Michael L. Conley, McDonald's controller. "That gets short shrift." The company is apparently operating as if the latest restrictions were already in effect.
Not that corporate credibility on accounting issues is all that high. Witness the refusal until recently to provide any consistent valuation of executive stock options -- options often worth many times as much as salaries.
But maybe there is a course to satisfy both sides. Abraham M. George, a leading consultant on foreign exchange matters, would let corporations hedge all they want with simple options, but keep the tougher reporting standards for riskier methods. Which creates no more risk than the rules allow today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judy Lewent of Merck (Merck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD; MERCK & CO INC MERCK & CO INC (84%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD; MERCK & CO INC FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; OPTIONS TRADING; CURRENCY; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS CURRENCIES (92%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; LEWENT, JUDY

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



146 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/May 30 - June 4

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Go Ahead, Cheer: People Are Going Back to Work 

President Clinton would probably have liked it to go this way: pass a stimulus package, then cheer the resulting job growth. But job growth came first -- a surprisingly strong report last week showed unemployment below 7 percent for the first time since late 1991 -- at 6.9 percent -- and payrolls up smartly. This could make a pared-down stimulus package harder for Congress to swallow, though, so the Administration was cautious, with Labor Secretary Robert Reich warning not to "put too much weight on a single month's numbers." But the numbers were good, and since those numbers mean people with paychecks, that's what really matters. The Labor Department's household survey, in fact, put last month's job growth at 857,000, the largest gain in nine years. And New Jersey got good news: its jobless rate had soared in recent months, hitting a grim 9.1 percent in April, but in May it glided back to 7.4 percent.
 
A Higher Wage? Uh, Not Just Yet
 
The numbers tell it: In the 70's, the minimum wage notched upward, tagging along behind average wages. But in the Reagan years, it didn't budge, falling steadily behind reality. George Bush vetoed one increase, later accepting a compromise. The result, noted one non-Republican, Edward M. Kennedy: "a steady erosion" in real wages for many. "No one who works full time in America," he said, "should have to live in poverty." Enter candidate Clinton, waving his sword, vowing glittering justice -- a $1 rise, to $5.25. But that, like many of his heroic vows, has become a hem and a haw. Not yet, Administration officials said last week, tiptoeing around the conservative dragon on the White House lawn. The time isn't right. The calendar is full. Business doesn't like it. So, the center holds; full-time poverty does, too.
 
Indexes Are Weak, Cars Aren't
 
So when the snows melted and the tulips erupted, did the economy warm up or not? Once again, it's pick-your-statistic time. While job data looked better, one heavy-duty index, the leading indicators, looked feeble last week. But Americans don't live in indexes or drive indicators, and, looking further, there were better tidings. Sales of new homes hit a six-year peak, snapping back from a bleak winter. But there was true strength in car sales, which rose 10 percent in late May, continuing a string of increases. And Detroit's amazing comeback continued, as the Big Three grabbed back a bit more of what they had given up to imports. Even lumbering General Motors did better, having had a novel idea: Don't raise prices.
 
If Hospitals Are Paid, They'll Pay
 
There will be winners and losers if the Clinton reformers give health insurance to all Americans. Those now uninsured will be winners; those who must pay the bill, the losers. But the White House sees other winners: Since hospitals will shed nonpaying customers, it says, they'll get a windfall, and last week officials said the President was considering a tax on hospitals to help pay for reform. For their part, hospitals say they now raise prices for paying patients to offset losses on free care, so the windfall will disappear when they must lower prices to compete.
 
Meanwhile, this whole idea of health care reform seems more remote than ever. Hillary Rodham Clinton's task force quietly closed up shop last week, its task incomplete. And when will the cosmic overhaul be unveiled? Well, July, maybe September. Some top priorities, it seems, are not quite top priorities.
 
The Gift Horse That Wasn't
 
People want everything instantly these days -- instant information, instant movies, instant calls on a pocket phone. A child learns it early. If a shady character menaces, he doesn't call the police -- he zaps him with a Nintendo button. So on the instant-gratification front, everything was up to date in Chicago last week at the Consumer Electronics Show. No sooner had Nintendo set up a domino-like display of Mario cassette boxes, to mark the recent 100 millionth sale of that game, than the crowd, clearly well schooled in the ways of greed, decided to help themselves. But the last zap was on them: the boxes were empty, the faces soon red.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Ganging Up on Poor A.T.& T.
 
How the mighty have become a bit less so. Just listen to A.T.& T., so recently the only game in town, saying it "deserves the same freedom as this giant BT-MCI alliance enjoys." What prompted this it's-not-fair-he's-got-more-pie wail? Last week British Telecom said it would buy a fifth of MCI for $4.3 billion. These global days, companies want one-stop shopping for private networks providing telephone and computer links, and this deal is a challenge to A.T.& T., which has been seeking greater British access.
 
A Trade Pact? Could Be
 
A worldwide trade pact -- it's been a maddeningly elusive goal, as leading nations keep getting sidetracked in their efforts to lower global barriers. But negotiators keep plodding on, as the GATT talks move into their seventh year. And last week, meeting in Paris, the United States and other big powers said they were actually close to a key breakthrough, ending or reducing tariffs on many products. Stumbling blocks remain -- Japan's persistent trade surplus, the spat with Europe over farm subsidies -- but officials insist that a formal pact is now possible by year's end. Stranger things have happened.
 
Real Trouble in Germany
 
The German economy is in real trouble; it isn't just some cyclical malaise. If there was any doubt about this, it vanished last week when Bonn reported that western Germany's economy had its worst period since such tallies began in 1968 -- a 3.7 percent first-quarter contraction. And economists now say that this recession could be the worst since the end of World War II. "It would be too simple" to call this cyclical, one economist said. "There are fundamental structural problems."
 
 
 
COMPANIES

 
G.E. Cedes a Bit of Midtown
 
Could it be a trend? A century ago, Columbia University moved uptown, with advancing New York commerce hot on its heels. But smug commerce overreached itself, building offices that now gather dust, and last week Columbia tiptoed back into the vacuum. Perhaps on the theory that if you can't rent it, give it away, General Electric donated a 50-story Art Deco tower in Manhattan to Columbia. G.E. has swapped a building that's two-thirds vacant -- it's at 51st and Lexington -- for a $40 million tax deduction. And Columbia, bursting at the seams, gets a much-needed annex. If this goes on, commercial New York will be right back where it started, hugging the foot of the island, and cattle will be grazing lazily in Times Square.
 
Dose of Reality at Tambrands
 
Once again, corporate directors have said "Enough!" The facts were easy to size up, for the company, Tambrands, makes only one product, tampons. And not only was Tampax steadily losing its powerful hold on the market, but company managers kept saying that things weren't too bad. Shareholders, in fact, had sued in April, saying that the chairman, Martin Emmett, had made rosy forecasts, driving up the stock price and enabling him to cash in stock options. So last week at a board meeting, when reality yet again proved a distant stranger to Mr. Emmett's promises, directors sent Mr. Emmett packing.
 
Kazarian Lashes Out at Sunbeam
 
Paul B. Kazarian is gone from Sunbeam-Oster, but he does not plan to be forgotten anytime soon. He was ousted in January, accused of being erratic and irrational -- and thus an ultimate danger to the company -- and he and his former partners have been at each other's throats ever since. Last week he stepped up the battle, filing a $3.2 billion lawsuit contending that he had been a victim of a conspiracy, that he had been denied the earnings he was owed, and that his partners had tried to smear his reputation.
 
Plenty of Buyers for Allstate
 
Even after Hurricane Andrew, investors still seem to love insurance companies. Allstate lost $2.5 billion to that storm, which may have been why Allstate's owner, Sears, Roebuck, needed to raise a bit of cash. And it had no trouble doing so last week. In the biggest initial offering ever, Sears -- which wants to get its mind back on retailing anyway -- raised $2.43 billion by selling Allstate shares. That easily topped the previous record for an offering, the $1.65 billion that Conrail raised in 1987. The Allstate shares, initially priced at $27, rose quickly in hectic trading, ending the week at $28.75.
 
Miracle on Channel 34?
 
A lot of people want to liven up their living rooms -- with a new couch, perhaps -- but there are limits. Here's what Myron Ullman, Macy's chairman, proposes: "a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week department store in your living room." Sounds hectic, but it's coming. Macy's said last week that it would start a cable channel next year to sell its wares. To top it off, one partner in the venture is Don Hewitt, executive producer of "60 Minutes." Does that mean Mike Wallace will be sitting across the coffee table from you, asking penetrating questions about whether those $24.95 pants really won't shrink? Macy's, by the way, hopes to be assigned channel 34 -- to evoke memories of "Miracle on 34th Street."
 
Outgrowing Federal Express
 
Federal Express may have been victimized by its own success. It has lost several top executives in recent years, and last week two more resigned, battering the stock. One possible explanation for the exodus: because of options they were granted on a stock that has soared over the years, these executives made sizable fortunes. And since the founding chairman, Frederick Smith, is just 48, none of them saw the top job in their future -- and could well afford to live other lives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Miracle on 34th Street" (20th Century Fox); Used car lot (The New York Times); ships (Keith Meyers for The New York Times)
 
Graphs track monthly change in total employment, 1991-May 1993 (Source: Datastream); average wage in private industry and Federal minimum wage, 1975-April 1993 (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TED KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



147 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gives Up on a Chip-Making Tool, but Does It Matter?

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
A strenuous effort by the United States Government and the American semiconductor industry to save American manufacturers of a vital type of machinery used in making computer chips is ending in failure.
One of the last two major American manufacturers of that equipment, the GCA Corporation, went out of business last month. The other, the Silicon Valley Group Inc., has concluded that it cannot continue on its own and is negotiating an agreement to license what is considered highly promising technology to an important Japanese competitor, Canon Inc., in exchange for financial assistance. 
 The agreement comes only three years after a controversy arose when the same technology was almost sold to another Japanese company, the Nikon Corporation.
Together, the developments mean that American semiconductor companies will continue to depend almost completely on Japanese suppliers for the chief tool used to make future generations of computer chips.
THAT multimillion-dollar equipment is for a process known as photolithography, in which microscopic circuit patterns are imprinted on silicon wafers. Canon and Nikon control 80 percent of the market. Most of the rest is held by ASM, a Dutch company.
"The U.S. effort to create an independent lithography business has failed," said G. Dan Hutcheson, president of VLSI Research Inc., a market research company in San Jose, Calif., that specializes in semiconductor manufacturing equipment.
American semiconductor industry officials have long feared relying on Japan for lithography equipment because Japanese competitors would have first access to the latest machinery. Indeed, one of the primary goals of Sematech, the American semiconductor industry consortium that is partly financed by the Federal Government, was to preserve American ability to manufacture chips, and it poured tens of millions of dollars into GCA and the Silicon Valley Group.
But Sematech, although it is given good marks overall for helping the American semiconductor industry, failed in the lithography area. It helped both lithography companies improve their technology, but it could not solve their financial problems.
Now that the battle has mainly been lost, however, American executives say it no longer matters. Competition along national lines is waning, they say. Canon and Nikon, suffering from Japan's recession, cannot afford to turn away American purchase orders.
"I don't sense that anyone is paranoid anymore," Wilfred J. Corrigan, chairman and chief executive of the LSI Logic Corporation, a Silicon Valley chipmaker, said during a visit to Japan Friday.
That contrasts sharply to the situation in late 1989 when concern spread that Nikon was considering buying the lithography business of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation. To keep the technology in American hands, the Silicon Valley Group bought the Perkin-Elmer business with help from the International Business Machines Corporation, Perkin-Elmer's largest customer. Sematech contributed $30 million to help Silicon Valley Group perfect the technology.
But last month, the Silicon Valley Group said it had signed a letter of intent with Canon to form a "global partnership." Canon would gain exclusive rights to sell the Silicon Valley Group's equipment in Japan and most of the rest of Asia in exchange for contributing manufacturing assistance and financial support. The Silicon Valley Group would sell the machines in the United States and Korea. The two companies would split the manufacturing.
Papken S. Der Torossian, chairman and chief executive of the Silicon Valley Group, said the agreement, far from being a sale of technology, would ensure that the Silicon Valley Group continued to manufacture in the United States and to share in any improvements made by Canon.
Mr. Der Torossian, who in the past has been a vocal critic of American companies' licensing technology to Japan, said the Silicon Valley Group, with revenues of $200 million, was too small to continue supporting development costs of $30 million to $40 million a year. Moreover, he said, American semiconductor companies are reluctant to buy equipment from a company they are worried might not be able to survive over the long run.
"Semiconductor companies are not going to tie up their billion-dollar factories on a little company," he said. Getting Canon's support "lends credibility to this technology."
So far, the agreement appears to have raised little concern in Washington. William Spencer, Sematech's chief executive, had a telephone conference call on the matter late in May with Laura Tyson, the head of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and John Gibbons, the President's science adviser.
Dr. Spencer, on a visit to Japan last week, said that he argued in the conversation that the agreement with Canon would be better for the United States than letting the Silicon Valley Group's efforts fail.
"If I had to figure out a way to make S.V.G.L. successful, this would be the best way I could think of," he said, referring to Silicon Valley Group Lithography Systems, a subsidiary. "If you want to keep a company like this alive for three years and continue to develop the technology, it's going to cost a lot of money."
Dr. Spencer said that even though the Silicon Valley Group is ceding rights to sell its machine in about half the world market, "I don't think S.V.G.L. can get into the Japanese market without a joint venture with Canon or Nikon."
JON IWATA, an I.B.M. spokesman, said his company also supported the deal, which is a joint venture, not an outright sale, as would have been the case with Nikon. "Our intent has always been to have a source here in the United States of this kind of product, and we still have that," he said.
Still, the deal will make Canon a stronger future competitor than it otherwise would have been, Mr. Hutcheson of VLSI Research said. In addition, he saw risks that Canon, being much bigger and richer than the Silicon Valley Group, could eventually control the technology.
GCA, of Andover, Mass., has been struggling for years since it fell behind in technology to Canon and Nikon. It was purchased in 1988 by the General Signal Corporation of Stamford, Conn., which decided to sell the semiconductor equipment business. But no buyer has been found for GCA's research and manufacturing business, so it is being shut.
GCA also suffered from American semiconductor companies' reluctance to risk buying crucial equipment from an endangered supplier.
One reason for the present lack of concern among American semiconductor companies with these developments is that most of them now have their own joint research or manufacturing agreements with Japanese companies. Development of a new generation of chips can cost more than $100 million, and an advanced factory, more than $1 billion, making cost-sharing necessary.
Moreover, in the last few years the American semiconductor industry has regained the lead in market share from the Japanese industry, so the American industry no longer feels threatened with extinction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PKI (NYSE) (85%); CAJ (NYSE) (85%); 7751 (TSE) (85%); 7731 (TSE) (84%); LSI (NASDAQ) (63%); IBMC (BRU) (60%); IBM (NYSE) (60%); IBM (LSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (85%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (85%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (85%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (85%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (85%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: GCA CORP; SILICON VALLEY GROUP INC; CANON INC PERKINELMER INC (85%); SILICON VALLEY GROUP INC (85%); CANON INC (85%); NIKON CORP (84%); GCA CORP (72%); VLSI RESEARCH INC (68%); LSI CORP (63%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: GCA CORP; SILICON VALLEY GROUP INC; CANON INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPUTER CHIPS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FINANCES SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (94%); ELECTRONICS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



148 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
If the Polo Is Free, Are Rates Headed Up?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
ARE banks starting to get more friendly? Do they actually want to lend more money, and to attract the deposits needed to make those loans?
If the answer to those questions is yes, it represents a big change from the situation that prevailed over the past couple of years. In the wake of loan debacles, banks decided to get smaller. Would-be borrowers found credit standards were tougher, and the interest rates offered to depositors tumbled. 
 Some banks went even further. Citibank, a trend-setter in good times and bad, urged owners of maturing C.D.'s to move the money into mutual funds. That suggestion was made even to depositors who seemed happy to stay despite the lower rates. The banks simply did not want the money.
But do they now? While banks, in a quarterly Federal Reserve survey, report that they have eased credit standards in recent months and want to make more loans, statistics on loan volume do not prove it. "There is absolutely no evidence that loan demand is picking up," said David Jones, the Fed watcher at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company. And the average rate paid by banks on savings accounts is still about 2.5 percent, a rate that has not risen even as Treasury bill rates have climbed in recent weeks.
But there are signs of economic improvement -- notably a surprisingly high level of job growth in May -- which ought to translate into credit demand. The Labor Department says more people are working than ever before in this country.
And perhaps Citibank is signaling a change. In a mailing last week -- sent only to "our best customers," a bank spokeswoman said -- it offered the 1990's equivalent of free toasters for aging yuppies. A new deposit of $5,000 is good for a pair of Yankee tickets. (No offer for the hapless Mets was included.) Deposit $75,000 and you get a weekend in Newport, R.I., with tickets to a polo match. And $125,000 gets two tickets to the U.S. Open tennis tournament finals or semifinals, plus a chance to volley with John Newcombe and Pancho Gonzales, a couple of tennis stars from the past.
When queried, the spokeswoman said nothing had changed. Citibank is "building relationships," she said, just as always. She would not discuss trends in deposit levels or borrowing demand. And a cynic could note that if Citibank really wants more deposits, it could offer higher rates.
Maybe that will come. At a minimum, Citibank's offer is evidence that it wants more deposits and will spend money -- U.S. Open tickets are not free -- to get them. Perhaps, as Chuck Clough, Merrill Lynch's chief equity strategist, suggests, it will just buy more Treasury securities. But maybe it senses that it can profit by lending more.
In any case, it is a straw in the wind that does not point to lower short-term interest rates. Financial stocks lost their status as market leaders a couple of months back, even as they were reporting huge profits. Perhaps that, too, was a warning that rates have bottomed for this cycle.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 17.71 to 3,545.14," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, May 28-June 4, 1993; "Rates Are up, Except at Banks," tracks 3-month Treasury rates and average bank savings rate, Jan 4-June 4, 1993; "Financials Have Slipped," tracks N.Y.S.E. financial index, Jan. 4-June 4, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CREDIT TRENDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (85%); TENNIS (85%); SPORTS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (61%); POLO (61%); MUTUAL FUNDS (55%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



149 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3827 words

HEADLINE: Advertising's Marathon Auditions

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

DATELINE: TEANECK, N.J.

 BODY:
Enter a woman in a white bathrobe. Smiling at the men and women watching her, she turns so that her back is to them, then drops the robe to the floor. She wears nothing but body paint -- a living representation of a bottle of vodka.
Performance art in SoHo? A rehearsal for an avant-garde drama Off Off Broadway? 
 In fact, this is no artistic endeavor. Rather, it is part of an annual spectacle that reveals a lot about the American advertising business amid one of the worst recessions in media history.
Every spring for five years, Carillon Importers Ltd., which has surfed to success on an ocean of an imported Swedish vodka called Absolut, has invited representatives from the nation's magazines and newspapers to its Teaneck headquarters just west of Manhattan. As if in a Madison Avenue version of "A Chorus Line," the publications' advertising sales executives -- and, occasionally, their top editors -- audition for executives of Carillon and TBWA Advertising, its agency.
Like the eager dancers singing "God, I Hope I Get It," they are seeking to sell themselves in an extremely competitive business. In this case, it's to win part of the $25 million to $30 million spent each year on the witty, stylish advertising that has made Absolut's one of the best-known, most effective brand campaigns ever. In what is now a big trend in publishing, the publications hope to improve their chances by creating ads and promotions customized for the advertiser.
In they come for these "Media Meetings," 7 to 15 publications a day, 2 to 4 days a week, from April through June, in what has been nicknamed the Media Marathon. All told, some 200 (including The New York Times Magazine) pass through. Each publication gets 30 minutes to sell its ad ideas to the executives from TBWA, Absolut's agency since the campaign's inception 13 years ago, and to Michel Roux, Carillon's president and chief executive. Mr. Roux combines the hardnosed directness of Zach, the director-taskmaster in "A Chorus Line," with a Gallic charm and playfulness.
For the first time, Carillon and TBWA allowed a reporter to attend a session of the Media Marathon. What most intrigued this outsider was the lengths to which publications will go to attract Absolut's ad dollars. The painted woman, part of a presentation by Vanity Fair magazine on a recent morning, had shock appeal. But perhaps more striking was the sight of smart, confident and aggressive people from prestigious magazines genuflecting before the mercurial godfather of liquor advertising. They flattered their host, some to the point of being obsequious. They cheered suggestions they didn't like. They spent heavily on mockups and on gifts meant to curry favor. In some cases, they even hinted at shaping their editorial content to satisfy the advertiser.
Was there really once a time when advertisers had to beg to make it into some publications? That seems a distant memory now.
 
Audition One
 On this day, the first auditioners -- four women representing Vanity Fair, the trendy Conde Nast monthly -- enter the room at 8:40 A.M. Taking the lead role is Kathy Neisloss Leventhal, wearing a blue scarf decorated with Absolut bottles. As her colleagues titter, she describes herself as "the brand-new publisher of Vanity Fair." Just three days earlier she had replaced Ronald Galotti.
As Jolie Schaffzin, an account manager, begins discussing Vanity Fair's circulation strength, she is interrupted by Claude P. Fromm, TBWA's executive vice president and media director. The price of an annual subscription -- initially $12, now $15 -- is "less than the cost of a bottle of Absolut," he complains. "You're asking the advertiser to pick up the freight."
Ms. Schaffzin, trying to resume her pitch, is interrupted by Mr. Roux, who asks about 1994 ad rates, which have not been set.
"So you think there's some way we could get a rate guarantee?" he asks, referring to a guarantee of 1993 rates in 1994. It would be the first in a series of inquiries from him throughout the morning, cajoling the magazines' representatives for concessions.
Ms. Leventhal dampens his speculation, saying, "I wish that were the case."
Annie Williams, the Vanity Fair advertising manager, then presents the magazine's three proposals, all of which are executed in mock-up form and pasted into copies of the June issue. The first is "Absolut Vanity," a sheet of silver Mylar in which the reader sees his or her reflection.
"We've done that," Mr. Roux says.
"This is a different execution," Ms. Williams replies.
"We did it in Spy magazine," says Richard Lewis, a senior vice president and management supervisor at TBWA.
Ms. Williams then unveils "Absolut Ornament," a silver-colored Christmas-tree ornament in the shape of the Absolut bottle, to be bound into copies of the magazine.
"I'm going to collect this one," Mr. Roux says.
Ms. Leventhal describes a promotional event tied to "Absolut Ornament": a tree-trimming party the magazine could sponsor for subscribers. Mr. Roux asks what each ornament costs. Told 97 cents each, he exclaims: "Ninety-seven cents for that? It's a very expensive proposition."
The third proposal requires the woman in the bathrobe. The idea is "Absolut Gair," after Joanne Gair, the artist who painted a body suit on the actress Demi Moore for the cover of Vanity Fair last August.
The woman in the bathrobe, Etta Valeska, then disrobes.
"Now who in this room still needs coffee?" asks Mr. Lewis, ever the comedian.
"Can I see that closer?" Mr. Roux asks.
"She'll have to move backward," Ms. Schaffzin answers. "Her front is not painted." Ms. Valeska stands still.
Ms. Schaffzin, calling "Absolut Gair" a "memorable and stirring execution," explains that it would consist of a six-page insert in which Ms. Gair would paint a model to resemble the four varieties of Absolut.
Mr. Roux has problems. "You know how many letters we'll get from the women's movement? How degrading this is to women?" As Ms. Schaffzin begins discussing the positive response to Ms. Moore's cover, he contrasts the editorial use of a painted nude woman with doing it "in a commercial way."
"I think it's a terrific idea," he adds, "but if I were a woman, I'd see a woman degraded in some way, naked, painted."
"Maybe we should paint a man," Ms. Williams says.
Ms. Valeska dons her robe and leaves.
Ms. Schaffzin segues to suggestions for ads for Grand Marnier, a liqueur also imported by Carillon. TBWA's campaign for the brand features illustrations that play off the word "Grand." Ms. Schaffzin proposes "Grand Anniversary," with a Grand Marnier bottle and an orange together forming a "1" and a "0" to mark the 10th anniversary of the reintroduction of Vanity Fair.
"Are you taking up some of the cost of this?" Mr. Roux asks. "It's your anniversary." He adds, "It's the 50th anniversary of Carillon. Will you do an ad for us?"
The bell of a white kitchen timer goes off. "Your time is up," Mr. Roux says. "Thank you." As the Vanity Fair representatives file out, he reaches into boxes filled with swimsuits bearing the Absolut name, giving one to each woman. It is a ritual that will be repeated at each group's departure.
 
Audition Two
 Ten minutes later, at 9:20, four representatives of Self, a sibling of Vanity Fair's at Conde Nast, enter the room. Three of the four are women; of the 25 magazine staffers auditioning this morning, 17 are female, reflecting the industry's preponderance of female executives; half of the 6 Carillon and TBWA executives are women.
"C'mon, let's sit down," Mr. Roux urges. "It's not a cocktail party. Time is running."
The Self team butters up the Carillon and TBWA executives by mentioning biographical tidbits amid their spiels. (For instance, Lawrence C. Burstein, Self's publisher, addresses Mr. Fromm "as a fellow Stuyvesant High School alumnus.")
"So you have some ideas for us?" Mr. Roux says, interrupting.
Beth Fuchs Brenner, Self's advertising director, proposes a promotion for Grand Marnier that would involve "creating an entire meal around the product." Mr. Roux is interested, but only if the recipes dovetail with Carillon's efforts "to give it a more youthful appeal" rather than the more formal image the liqueur now has among drinkers.
Ms. Brenner also proposes "Absolut Expression," a contest inviting Self readers to "tell us your thoughts about romance"; "Absolut Awareness," which would feature a red ribbon, for AIDS awareness, draped around the bottle, and "Absolut Protection," with a condom stretched over the neck of the bottle, inspired by a new book written by Alexandra Penney, Self's editor in chief, called "How to Make Love to a Man (Safely)."
Ms. Brenner and Mr. Burstein then distribute signed copies of the book and samples of "Absolut condom holders," which resemble small change purses. Ms. Brenner jokes that Mr. Roux has taken four of them.
While Absolut has not advertised in the magazine, Mr. Roux says after the group leaves, "We could be in Self soon."
 
Audition Three
 At 9:55 A.M., four women from Metropolitan Home, recently acquired by Hachette Filipacchi, enter, bearing a big basket of strawberries, baked goods and other treats.
Donna Warner, Met Home's editor in chief, describes editorial changes she is making. "It's a positive magazine," she says. "Everything in here is positive. We don't go around panning things."
Deborah O'Brien, account manager, describes "Absolut Color," an ad centering on painting rooms in the colors of the varieties of Absolut -- original, Citron, Peppar and Kurant. Anne Triece, ad director, says this would cost Carillon $309,000.
Mr. Roux breaks in. "Do you ever do anything with dinnerware, glassware, silverware?" he asks, adding that tablecloths and napkins with Absolut designs "are in the works." Ms. Warner says yes. She comes up with "Absolut Dinner" and "the courses of Absolut, the drinks of Absolut . . . ."
"Can you come back with that?" asks Mr. Roux, who often proposes ads for the series. Some of his suggestions turn out better than the magazines' or TBWA's; it was his idea to ask artists to create their versions of the Absolut bottle, which has resulted in scores of distinctive ads like "Absolut Warhol."
When Ms. Triece asks, "Do you have any concerns about Metropolitan Home?," Mr. Roux shoots back, "You should have the concerns, not us." But he quickly adds, "It was a good meeting."
 
Audition Four
 Two men and a woman file in from American Express's Food & Wine.
Lynette Latiolais, Food & Wine's senior account supervisor, exudes a presence that has been absent from the sessions so far. It is as if at a "Chorus Line" audition, Gwen Verdon has tried out.
"There's nothing more absolute than the need to protect our Earth and her natural resources," she says. "So we present, for your consideration, 'Absolut Earth.' " As she holds up a board, she says that Food & Wine will create an advertorial feature -- an ad produced to resemble editorial matter -- on the subject of conservation; it will take up a third of a page adjacent to the full-page ad.
"You're guaranteed the impact of a spread," she adds, referring to a two-page ad, "for the cost of a page." She also proposes an ad that "takes a little liberty with the usual order of your tag lines: 'The World is Absolut.' " Then she suggests an ad for Grand Marnier that would involve "a dessert created in Food & Wine's kitchens with Grand Marnier" called "Grand Finale."
Mr. Roux approves.
"I have the most crazy idea," Mr. Roux says later. "I'll write this one down," replies Doug Fierro, the magazine's vice president and publisher, who is wearing a tie with an Absolut design. It is what Mr. Roux told the Self group about contemporization: "Grand Marnier souffle, crepes suzette, duck a l'orange -- all this is out."
"Grand Marnier and baked potatoes," he proposes. "Maybe it tastes good."
Ms. Latiolais catches on instantly. "You're looking for less traditional uses," she says. "We have a column, 'Dinner for a Busy Weeknight.' We might fit something into that like Grand Marnier-flavored butter; flavored butters are all the rage."
Mr. Roux then says slyly, "We'd like to run it in your editorial."
"I bet you would," Mr. Fierro retorts, adding, "I'd like to, too, but our editor in chief would have a problem with that."
The audition ends on a high note, as the Carillon and TBWA executives express their pleasure with the Grand Marnier proposals. But as for the Absolut ads with environmental themes, "I don't get it," Mr. Lewis says after the Food & Wine contingent leaves.
 
Audition Five
 At 10:55 A.M., two women enter the room representing Victoria, a Hearst Magazines title that celebrates all things Victorian. Mr. Roux welcomes them by enthusing, "Victoria's Secret!"
Katherine W. (Kitty) Mountain, the magazine's vice president and publisher, replies, "We have some secrets."
Jenny Fontes, Victoria's liquor account manager, hands out elaborately prepared booklets with the magazine's proposals for promotional programs for Grand Marnier.
Mr. Roux praises the proposals, including a "Grand Victoria" reader recipe contest, as "very good." Eagerly, he shares another idea. Referring to paintings of the four seasons brought into the room earlier, he says, "I think this would fit into your magazine."
"These are really interesting," Ms. Mountain quickly replies, then scrutinizes the paintings. Mr. Fromm asks whether Victoria would pick up the production costs involved in a four-page, four-season ad.
Mr. Roux has another Victoria-appropriate idea. "Maybe there's something you can do with a sachet of potpourri glued to the bottle," he says. "See what I mean?"
Ms. Fontes muses. "It could be messy."
Mr. Roux keeps going: "The bottle would be there, made out of flowers -- wisteria, violets, purple flowers. The background would be white and, in the middle, a little sachet, colored the same as the bottle, and it would be a sachet of potpourri."
"I am not charging you," he adds.
Mr. Lewis interjects: "Today."
Ms. Fontes scribbles notes. Ms. Mountain promises to get back to Mr. Roux.
Ms. Fontes removes blue Tiffany boxes from a Victoria shopping bag and distributes them to the Carillon and TBWA executives. When Mr. Roux gives her an Absolut swimsuit, she kisses him.
 
Audition Six
 The youngest contingent -- two women and two men from Conde Nast's Bride's & Your New Home -- enters the room at 11:25 A.M. (By this time, things are running about 25 minutes behind schedule.)
The group offers themed proposals that are probably the most on-target of the morning. Lorraine Levinson, the magazine's marketing and promotion director, introduces an ad mock-up called "Absolut Ceremony," a clever contraption with a cardboard couple at the top of the page; pull a tab, and the couple heads down the aisle to the strains of the wedding march, played by a microchip. The proposal was embraced warmly.
Kevin Jones, the magazine's creative coordinator, then presents "Absolut Love," combining an ad, for which artists would "create different messages pertaining to love, to tie in to Valentine's Day," and a promotion, an "Absolut Love Party."
Mr. Roux is impressed. "Good, nice idea, great."
Ms. Levinson and Steven L. DeLuca, an account manager at Bride's, then present "Absolut Honeymoon," also combining an ad, in which the bottle would be drawn in the sand on a beach resort, and a promotion, a contest in which readers of Bride's would compete to win a free honeymoon trip. That is followed by "Absolut Engagement," combining an ad, a bottle in which a ring floats, and a promotion, a sweepstakes to win a diamond engagement ring.
"You should have a diamond in the shape of the bottle," Mr. Roux advises.
After seeing a mock-up that gathered "Absolut Engagement," "Absolut Wedding" and "Absolut Honeymoon" into a single ad insert, he proposes another: " 'Absolut Divorce.' " (Giggles.)
 
Audition Seven
 Minutes before noon, George Wayne, founder, editor and publisher of a magazine called R.O.M.E. -- "It really doesn't mean anything," he confides -- strides into the room for what would prove the morning's most unconventional session.
"I just came to see the pope," he announces, "to genuflect and to pay homage and beg and plead for my endowment. Michel, you know what I mean."
Mr. Wayne, whom W magazine has called "downtown's deepest disher" of gossip, says that the frequency of his unusual magazine, which is printed on a copier machine on copier paper, is "every five months" and/or as soon as he pays his bills for the previous issue. He adds that he cannot publish more often "because you're so mean."
"You know I run the best of Absolut advertising, the classics like the Keith Harings," he adds, referring to his practice of copying ads from the pages of other magazines and using them on his pages.
Mr. Roux finally interrupts. "O.K., what do you want, George?"
"I need $15,000. I'm tired of the crumbs off the table."
Mr. Fromm teases him that Mr. Roux is "very generous today."
"I've always respected the pope," Mr. Wayne says, then drops his figure to $10,000.
Mr. Fromm, and later Mr. Roux, counter with $5,000.
Mr. Wayne's response: "Six?"
"George, don't push your luck here," Mr. Roux says.
As Mr. Wayne leaves, he calls out, "Michel, can you take me to dinner next week?"
 
Audition Eight
 At 12:10 P.M. the most stylish group arrives, three representatives of South Beach, a magazine covering Miami Beach.
Mr. Roux asks whether South Beach would keep its ad rates at current levels. The publisher, Paul Arthaud, replies, "For you."
Mr. Roux proposes a two-year contract. Mr. Arthaud says, "I would appreciate it, since I am giving you all my back covers, if we can at least double the business." He then proposes Carillon's participation in a jeanswear show for apparel buyers in Miami Beach. He suggests that Carillon help underwrite a benefit for Camillus House, an organization for the homeless.
He and Mr. Roux go back and forth on details of a promotional program Mr. Arthaud calls "Absolut Denim," but fail to reach agreement. Mr. Fromm says that the $20,000 to $30,000 donation being sought by Mr. Arthaud would probably be a better idea for jeans manufacturers than for Carillon.
Mr. Arthaud then declares, "That's it. Do we want to contract this for two years?" Mr. Fromm says that it would begin in the fall, to coincide with Carillon's 1994 fiscal year.
Mr. Roux says, "Good luck with your magazine. It's a good book."
At 12:20 P.M., the South Beachers file out, swimsuits in hand, and another of Carillon's marathon auditions has ended. Who will get picked? Check your magazines this fall.

 
 
A HALL-OF-FAME ADVERTISER
 The annual advertising budget for Absolut is usually the largest of any liquor brand sold in America. More than that, though, an Absolut ad can lend a publication a certain cachet, particularly if it is struggling to establish itself.
Michel Roux, president and chief executive of Carillon, which brings Absolut to America, has long sought out new publications for Absolut ads, on the philosophy that a product appearing in a hip magazine or newspaper can be perceived as hip, too.
That is just one of the shrewd strategies that have helped Absolut sales explode, from 54,000 cases in 1979 to 2.9 million last year. The brand is now America's best-selling imported vodka, with almost three times the volume of Russia's Stolichnaya. The New York chapter of the American Marketing Association has honored Absolut by making it one of the first three brands named to its Marketing Hall of Fame. The other? A couple of brands called Coca-Cola and Nike.
Still, Absolut's momentum has slowed. As recently as 1988, case sales were soaring at 33.5 percent annually. But from 1991 to 1992 they rose only 3.6 percent.
In the course of a year, 24 to 36 specially customized Absolut ads will appear. Among recent examples are "Absolut Americana," a portfolio of works by American contemporary folk artists, in Country Home magazine, and "Absolut Cartoon," a draw-your-own-cartoon contest, in The New Yorker.
Those customized ads are mixed with all-purpose ads, which run in a lengthy list of magazines and newspapers. They are selected from a pool that includes the first ad in the series, now 13 years old -- "Absolut Perfection," the bottle with a halo above it.

 
 
PUBLICATIONS, START YOUR ENGINES
 Just as car buffs customize their automobiles in hopes of standing out from the crowd, so, too, do publications, intent on attracting attention amid a traffic jam of sales pitches, offer to customize ad programs for advertisers.
"What we're searching for right now is to tailor ads," says Michel Roux, president and chief executive of Carillon Importers Ltd. "An ad should be blended with the editorial, to make the reader comfortable with the product you're selling."
That philosophy troubles people who worry about the implications of ads that too closely resemble the editorial content of the publication in which they appear. The line between the editorial content of a publication and its advertising is supposed to be drawn as sharply as any line surrounding its table of contents or masthead. But in recent years, a weak economy has made the pursuit of ad dollars more frenetic, smudging that line.
For instance, readers of the May issue of Harper's Magazine saw the monthly's familiar "Harper's Index" feature on page 9 followed on page 11 by "Absolut Index" -- an ad using the same type face and format of the magazine's index to produce an image in the shape of the Absolut bottle.
Media companies are also appealing to advertisers with other customization strategies. One is to assemble "cross-media" packages that combine ad messages in the various outlets owned by a single company. Time Warner Inc., for instance, has signed Sega of America as the title sponsor of a "Sports Illustrated Sports Fest," at which the weekly magazine will present a photo exhibition. The summer-long festival will be held at seven of the company's Six Flags and Great Adventure amusement parks.
A second is to create and produce a magazine sponsored entirely by one advertiser. For General Motors this fall, Hachette Filipacchi will publish a customized magazine called Know-How, carrying ads from G.M. Other marketers with their own magazines include Chanel, Sony, the Target discount-store chain and A.&P. supermarkets.
A third is to put together so-called integrated marketing efforts, which combine traditional advertising venues like print ads or television commercials with sweepstakes, displays in stores and coupons. Land O'Lakes and Country Living, a Hearst Magazines title, will join for a program called "Imagine a Taste That Takes You to the Country." It includes a seven-page advertorial section in the magazine's July issue, a recipe contest and a coupon insert in newspapers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Beth Fuchs Brenner, Self magazine's advertising director, tries to sell Absolut vodka on a customized ad that would feature a red ribbon, for AIDS awareness, draped around the bottle. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Michel Roux, Absolut ruler, listens. (pg. 1); Michel Roux views an Absolut vodka ad proposed by Food & Wine, auditioning in the Media Marathon. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Absolut Gallery: the first ad; a Christmas ad with a musical microchip; a customized ad in Country Home, and a proposal from Vanity Fair. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TBWA ADVERTISING INC; CARILLON IMPORTERS LTD NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TBWA ADVERTISING INC; CARILLON IMPORTERS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; VODKA; MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); DANCERS (72%); BRANDING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; ROUX, MICHEL

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



150 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
It Wasn't as Easy as 1-2-3, but Lotus Has a Winner

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
LIKE Wayne Gretzky, Lotus 1-2-3 for Windows, Release 4, is emerging as a leading candidate for the Comeback of the Year award. The impressive new version of the spreadsheet will reach stores later this month after having been previewed at the recent Spring/Comdex computer show in Atlanta.
Much easier to use than earlier versions of Lotus 1-2-3, this new version -- why don't we call it 1-2-3-4 -- adds features and powers that will be especially interesting for executives who frequently collaborate on financial plans with other workers. The Lotus Development Corporation has long espoused the gospel of work-group computing, but 1-2-3-4 is the first clear example of how the concept can be applied to basic business applications. 
 Lotus 1-2-3 is believed to be the single most popular personal computer business application in the world, with millions of customers. But Lotus fumbled the transition to Windows, arriving late and with an inferior product, and many users of the DOS version of 1-2-3 switched to the Microsoft Corporation's Excel or Borland International's Quattro Pro for Windows.
Now Lotus finally has a Windows spreadsheet that holds its own with Excel and Quattro Pro, and even surpasses them in some areas. Of course the competition is not standing still; at Comdex, Borland showed off a very impressive prototype of its next release of Quattro Pro for Windows, and Microsoft told of plans to bring out a new Excel this fall.
"It's going to be a horse race," said Peter Rogers, software industry analyst for the San Francisco investment firm Robertson, Stephens & Company. "One company may come up with something new, but in a couple of weeks the gap closes. The advantages don't last very long."
Lotus, for example, has "borrowed" some ease-of-use features from Excel and some organizing tricks from Quattro Pro. Excel and Quattro Pro are expected to borrow some data analysis tricks from Lotus's other spreadsheet, Improv for Windows.
Improv, originally developed for use on Next Inc. computers, provides users far more power to analyze data than most spreadsheets. While some companies rely on it, Improv is more often employed as a useful supplementary tool. And this poses a tactical problem for Lotus, because its rivals are likely to combine the best of both types of spreadsheets while Lotus remains committed to separate programs.
Lotus's new program "is at least on par with Excel in terms of attention to detail, fit and finish" and features, said William J. Higgs, vice president of software research for Infocorp, a market research company in Santa Clara, Calif. "There are points where one is better, and points where the other is better. Having a better product in some ways, but not in all ways, doesn't automatically make you the dominant player."
Creating successful software "is much more a marketing effort than it was 5 or 10 years ago," Mr. Higgs said, adding, "Certainly Microsoft has had good products, but its success is at least as much due to marketing as to programming."
To meet the market challenge, Lotus is trying some new tricks. While its previous version of 1-2-3 for Windows was Release 1, it decided to skip 2 and 3, and go straight to 4. The reasoning? The company says this puts the spreadsheet more in step with other Lotus products, but the real reason is probably that rival spreadsheets had higher numbers. Lotus has put 1-2-3-4 in a bright yellow box (a color that will be standard for all Lotus products from now on). Yellow is the most eye-catching retail color, marketers note, and in the boring world of computer software packaging, Lotus will now stand out.
But such marketing details alone are not going to win the spreadsheet wars, and ultimately 1-2-3-4's new features will be the test of its appeal.
The most important advance is something that Lotus calls version manager, which allows several different people in a group of workers to create their own versions of the same spreadsheet, without overwriting someone else's changes.
For example, in sales, "Mr. Owl" may construct a spreadsheet showing past, current and projected sales of a company's products, while "Ms. Bear," in the executive office, may feel the recession will re-emerge, making even Mr. Owl's dreary forecast far too optimistic. "Mr. Bull" in marketing, on the other hand, may feel that sales will soar to record levels. In the old days, three different interpretations required three different spreadsheets.
But with 1-2-3-4, a single spreadsheet can provide multiple scenarios, each annotated with the name of the person who created it and the time and date it was most recently done. The version manager maintains a master copy of the spreadsheet and displays, in menu form, all the different scenarios and ranges associated with the file. The viewer can then choose a scenario or review them all.
A separate comment box on the version manager window allows workers to add remarks on why they made changes or created scenarios. Ms. Bear might wonder why Mr. Bull was so optimistic. In version manager she will find his explanation: "I think sales will be spectacular in the third quarter because the Sun is ascending in Taurus."
On a local area network with a shared file server, several workers can view the same 1-2-3 spreadsheet, including the different scenarios, at the same time. Only one worker can modify the file at a given time, however.
The true power of 1-2-3-4's new networking features become apparent when the spreadsheet is shared within an environment created by Lotus's Notes program. Notes is Lotus's ambitious network software that connects workers within an organization and allows them to share and organize information in ways not possible using conventional network software.
When a 1-2-3 for Windows spreadsheet is shared under Notes, several users can make changes to the same spreadsheet simultaneously without overwriting the others. Notes notifies each user, through a sound cue and screen message, when someone else modifies the spreadsheet. The spreadsheet will also flag the worksheet if there are any modifications that the worker has not read.
Lotus is expected to add similar abilities to its other applications, including its Ami Pro word processor. Writers and editors would then be able to work on a document concurrently.
Networking aside, 1-2-3-4's other features are impressive. Many complex functions have been reduced to a mouse click or two, and new context-sensitive menus offer only those choices that make sense for what the user is doing at the time. Drag-and-drop editing now makes redesigning worksheets far easier, and Lotus has created better help and tutorial screens. (For experienced 1-2-3 users, a new pull-down menu provides quick access to as many as 250 of those pesky "@" commands, mostly mathematical formulas that process data in different ways, from addition to far more complicated tasks.)
Another improvement is something Lotus calls in-cell editing, which lets the user enter information and edit it directly in the worksheet, without having to move the cursor to a command line at the top of the sheet.
And charts can be created anywhere in the spreadsheet simply by highlighting a range of numbers and text; 1-2-3-4 will build the chart automatically, including legends. The charts can then be edited and restructured as desired, while any changes in the underlying data are automatically reflected in the chart.
Lotus 1-2-3 for Windows Release 4 has a suggested list price of $495, but is available to anyone with an earlier Lotus spreadsheet -- or competing spreadsheets -- for $129.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LOTUS DEVELOPMENT CORP INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOTUS DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



151 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Looking Ahead, Long and Hard

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Some wrenching changes are ahead for the mutual fund industry, Prof. Michael E. Porter of the Harvard Business School warned in the keynote address to more than 1,000 mutual fund executives gathered in Washington at the end of May for their annual meeting.
Some of these changes will come from the impending shakeout in an industry that, he said, has peaked -- or will soon do so. Other changes will come as banks, with their own new offerings, continue to grab market share from mutual fund companies. And others might come from the panicked reaction of first-time investors to a market correction or interest rate spike. 
 Are fund companies prepared for the coming changes? The questions put to Professor Porter from a tightly packed audience showed about two-thirds of the respondents had an appreciation of the situation. "They know that their companies have to be more cost-effective and add real value to their customers," the professor said, "and they're struggling with how to accomplish that, given that many companies have long histories in a gentlemanly, stable kind of industry."
The problem he sees is a kind of homogeneity that makes it difficult for customers to distinguish among companies. Companies unsure of their strategies strive to be all things to all customers. The result: customer confusion.
Compounding the confusion is a byzantine pricing structure that seems to worsen with time. First, there were "A" shares, which carry a front-end sales load. Then came "B" shares, with contingent deferred sales charges (or back-end loads), usually combined with annual 12b-1 fees taken from fund assets to pay marketing expenses. Then there are "C" shares, often specially priced for special groups.
Now, investors must grapple with "D" shares, also called "level loads." Sponsors pitch them as having no sales charges, often not mentioning that the share price includesunusually high annual expense charges.
Paine Webber, which pioneered D shares last July, says that they now account for two-thirds of its fund sales, mainly bond funds. "Our brokers like the new pricing," said Thomas Eggers, senior vice president of Paine Webber and a panelist in the meeting's discussion of distribution and pricing issues. "They combat the 'no-load' mentality."
Confusing? You bet. Even fund executives are beginning to rebel. The pricing innovations are "just a repackaging of what already exists, and clients end up in the same place," said Gregory E. Johnson, vice president of Franklin Resources, in San Mateo, Calif. Moreover, replacing a front-end sales fee with a less obvious one "removes the value of the sales professionals' fee from the equation" and conditions investors to expect advice for free, he said.
Banks, which are moving into the fund business sufficiently to have commanded their own panel discussion at the conference, are grappling with pricing issues, too.
Nationsbank, for instance, opted for the alphabet soup of fund shares, sold by full-service brokers. But Fleet Bank decided to go with low-cost, no-load shares, an unusual strategy for banks so far. Fleet's approach is based on a simple premise, said Thomas Howe, managing director of Fleet Investment Services: "In the 90's, prices won't be camouflaged by high returns."
Indeed, if any one theme darkened the atmosphere of the fund conference, it was the possibility of a market break -- or, more likely, a rise in interest rates -- that might spook first-time fund investors.
"It is essential that we stop and think about how best to educate these investors about the risks, as well as the rewards, of investing in long-term funds, particularly the impact of interest rate changes on bond funds," said Matthew P. Fink, president of the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund trade group that sponsored the conference.
Bond prices have risen as interest rates have tumbled, but if rates spike, prices will fall; and the longer a bond's term, or the smaller its coupon, the farther the fall.
This lesson, and other investment basics, are becoming critical to more and more people as funds command a growing share of individual investors' capital. As companies continue to switch to 401(k)-type retirement plans, employees must make investment decisions -- and bear the concomitant risk.
Even fund companies concede that things are out of hand. There is an "enormous amount of confusion with 3,800 funds out there," said Robert A. Leo, executive vice president, mutual funds, for Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., in a panel discussion. Added Michael J. Downey, chairman of Prudential Mutual Fund Management, "The industry has been product-driven. I don't know if we've paid enough attention to our customers' needs."
To Professor Porter, the prescription is clear. In the long run, the fund industry will be better off providing investors with clear information. And while following the latest trend is natural to get business in a growing industry, "Product proliferation and imitative strategies will have to decline," he said.
In the end, change "will be a very good thing for individual investors," Professor Porter concluded. They will benefit "as expenses fall, companies get more efficient and the poorer performers are squeezed out."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks banks' share of mutual fund assets, 1988-1993 (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); BONDS (75%); SALES FORCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (70%); SALES & SELLING (69%); MARKET SHARE (56%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; PORTER, MICHAEL E (PROF) GREGORY E JOHNSON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



152 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 15; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: ENGAGEMENTS;
Edward M. Matluck, Susan Mazonson

 BODY:
Susan Mazonson, the founder of Telecom Services, a technology consulting firm, and Edward M. Matluck, a senior vice president of Faneuil Research Inc., a market research firm, both in New York, plan to marry in the fall.
Ms. Mazonson graduated from Brown University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. She is a daughter of Gertrude Mazonson of Peabody, Mass., and the late Arthur Mazonson. Her father was the vice president of the Bermas Plastics Company in Long Island City, Queens. 
 Mr. Matluck graduated from the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., and received a Ph.D. in economics and finance from New York University. He is a widower. He is the son of Meyer Matluck of Flushing, Queens, and the late Annette Matluck. His father, who is retired, was a research chemist at Hoffman LaRoche in Nutley, N.J., the pharmaceutical company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward M. Matluck, Susan Mazonson (Scott Humbert Photography)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: INC RESEARCH INC (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (58%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (58%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); PLASTICS (54%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: MAZONSON, SUSAN; MATLUCK, EDWARD M.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



153 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Average Americans, Given the Facts, Understand Tax Increases

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The American people want reductions in spending before any increase in taxes," say Republicans and conservative Democrats in Congress. Doubtless, most Americans, asked "Do you want your taxes raised?", will answer no. But ask: "Do you want cuts in Social Security, Medicare and other entitlements? To have no money for police, for fixing roads, education and research? To have the United States sink to mediocrity, with the good life for only the wealthy?" The answer would also be no.
By all indications, it isn't possible to pay no more in taxes, or to reduce nonmilitary public expenditure, and still have a country with first-rate social institutions. The last 12 years of conservative claims that these things can coexist by cutting the fat out of our Government have been refuted by a quadrupling of the national debt in that period. After 12 years of trying, conservative fat cutters found little waste, but put a lot of worthwhile activities in a state of chronic malnourishment, which will cost us a lot more than what we save by starving our institutions. The cost of the savings and loan bailout is the most spectacular result. 
 What Americans really want is a first-rate country -- with cities as safe and pleasant as those in other advanced countries. With schools graduating students who score at least as high on standardized tests as their foreign counterparts, so they can build products the world will prefer to foreign-built ones. With medical care guaranteed and accessible to all. These things cost money.
The other advanced countries have come to terms with this. The United States pays about 31 percent of its gross national product in taxes, compared with 33 percent in Japan, 38 percent in Germany and 56 percent in Sweden -- despite far higher military expenditure in the United States.
For the last 12 years, Americans have pursued the fantasy, led much of that time by a master of fantasy, that we can pay Hyundai prices and still get a Mercedes. It isn't leadership to sustain this delusion.
The average American doesn't know how much it costs to provide a dignified retirement for the elderly, or to keep our research cutting edge. Maybe average Americans should, but they've got their own jobs and families to tend to. They're relying on Congress to handle that and to make sure we buy what is necessary to keep us on top.
 
HARRY E. MYNICK
Princeton, N.J., May 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); MALNUTRITION (72%); AGING (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



154 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: No Need to Celebrate A 'Record High' Dow

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Stocks and Bonds Surge; Dow Hits 3,500" (Business Day, May 20) reports a "record high." I suspect that many readers not familiar with finance or economics would, quite sensibly, take this to mean that the dollar value of the Dow on May 19 had greater buying power than at any previous closing. Such readers would be justified in feeling confusion when record highs coincide with decreasing buying power (as they often do, because inflation increases the price of both stocks and groceries).
In other words, a Dow of 3,000 when an automobile costs $12,000 is not in any meaningful sense as high as a Dow of 1,000 when an automobile costs $3,000. 
 The "record high" that is not corrected for inflation is an incoherent measure of some unstated combination of market performance and inflation, which can imply that times are good when times are bad.
It is understandable that stockbrokers would find this statistical sleight of hand agreeable. Optimism, even false optimism, leads people to buy stock, and stockbrokers get their commissions whatever happens to the stock.
 
STEVEN GOLDBERG
New York, May 25, 1993
 
The writer is chairman of the sociology department, City College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



155 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Using Taxation In a Good Cause Often Backfires

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
RESIDENT CLINTON has given his proposed energy tax a healthy environmental twist: he wants to tax some "dirty" fuels such as oil to the hilt, but he would exempt "green" sources of energy, like solar and wind power and the burning of garbage to generate electricty, from any tax at all. The Government gets $72 billion over five years; pollution gets pummeled. Who could resist?
Try environmentalists. Every year, paper recyclers pulp and press nearly 40 million tons of would-be trash into cardboard, fiberboard, auto dashboards, egg cartons and so on. The profit margin is, well, paper thin. A tax break for garbage burning, the recyclers fear, could eliminate it. 
 "Our concern is that you don't want to create an incentive to burn paper instead of recycling it," said Jim Davidson, a lobbyist for the Paper Recycling Coalition, a trade group. "The wise thing to do is not to plunge into a new tax system that would distort the market."
Wise, maybe. But it is so hard for a President -- especially a new, activist President with an agenda thicker than the Encyclopedia Britannica -- to resist temptations to use the tax code to promote good and punish evil. Mr. Clinton succumbs in his new budget, which the Senate Finance Committee considers this week. He reopens the tax laws to propose changes -- an energy tax, a bigger break on capital gains and enterprise zones -- that are social and economic policy as much as revenue raisers.
There is a long and distinguished history to this. By Congress's reckoning, the deductions, exemptions, loopholes and credits built into the current tax code will cost the Treasury $401.8 billion this year, and would cost $526.9 billion by 1997 if they remain in force then. Many of these breaks -- for charitable donations, low-income housing, corporate research, the working poor -- are aimed at inarguably good causes and pressing social needs.
But for a President who has staked much of his remaining political credibility on the success of his economic program, this is no small risk. All too often, the history of tax incentives (and disincentives) is that they come to town full of ideals, fall in with a national political crowd that whispers that a minor change or two won't harm anything and wind up beyond redemption.
Mr. Clinton's package of spending cuts and new taxes has barely passed the House, and some of his proposals already have been recast. Chief among them is the energy tax. Conceived last winter not just as a money raiser, but as a prod toward energy efficiency and clean air, it was something less than that even before it arrived on Capitol Hill.
Mr. Clinton's concept became muddied by a desire to balance regional interests. So one dirty fuel, oil, faces a stiff surtax, but an even dirtier one, coal, does not.
 
Quid Pro Quod
 Similarly, the bill grants economically insignificant fuels like solar energy a total exemption from the tax. But it taxes hydroelectric power, a pollution-free energy source, to insure that the heavily dammed Northwest carries its share of the freight.
Last month, the House took up where Mr. Clinton left off, giving aluminum smelters a tax break on electricity and farmers a tax break on diesel, among other changes. Next comes the Senate, where Rocky Mountain politicians already are pushing for an even greater break for their coal, as opposed to coal from the Appalachians, and Gulf senators are taking aim at the burden shouldered by oil. Many expect the energy tax to emerge in Swiss cheese form, pulling in $40 billion or so rather than the hoped-for $72 billion, and shorn of most incentives for conservation.
"The problem the Clinton Administration is having now is that its principles got lost early on in the scramble for revenue and political appeasement," said a former Treasury Department tax official, requesting anonymity because he remains in public life, "and once that happens, it becomes very difficult to say no to someone else who wants a piece of the pie."
History is only repeating itself. And that, some experts would argue, is the point: the Government can rarely fashion a tax incentive so airtight that politicians cannot divert it to the unintended benefit of their constituents, or that the wily constituents themselves do not eventually subvert.
"My preferences are toward conventional economics," said Jane G. Gravelle, a senior tax specialist at the Library of Congress. "Unless you can identify some really good reason to involve yourself in the allocation of resources, all of economic theory tells us that leaving it to the market is the best thing to do."
If the tax code is such a risky instrument of policy-making, why do politicians dote on it so? One obvious explanation is that tax breaks are, at heart, just a way of spending money without routing it through the Treasury Department. Whereas no one likes the Government to spend more, everyone likes a tax deduction or credit, and so the tax code gives politicians a way to finance the agendas without the pain of finding the money.
The problem is that the politicians often end up financing other people's agendas as well, intentionally or otherwise.
History offers some telling lessons. Off and on since the Kennedy era, administrations have sought to lure businesses into pumping up the economy by giving them a credit on their taxes -- say, 10 or 15 percent of everything they invest in expansion or remodeling. The goal is noble: the modernization of factories makes industry more efficient and competitive, employs workers, pumps money into the economy and makes the country strong.
 
A Yawn and a Cut
 Targeting even the best tax break is an inexact art. The Individual Retirement Account, which originally allowed anyone to deduct up to $2,000 of his retirement nest egg from his income each year, was supposed to spur savings. But it also prompted millions of Americans to borrow money or shift cash from their savings accounts into IRA's, creating no new savings but costing the Government plenty in lost tax revenues.
Mr. Clinton tried proposing his own investment tax credit this year, directing his brightest economic minds to seal the loopholes and eliminate the waste that had plagued tax breaks in the past. One immediate result was that companies reacted with a yawn, and the House cut the provision from the budget.
The President's budget does contain some tax breaks that even the surliest economists applaud. Most experts believe that the earned-income credit, which rewards the working poor with a tax cut, is a social and fiscal success, and the White House has substantially expanded it. The House has tightened the rules for claiming charitable-donation deductions, another clause many economists say is demonstrably worth the expense. Together, they amount to one-twentieth of the $401 billion in tax breaks in the 1993 budget.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PAPER RECYCLING INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ENERGY AND POWER TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); CHARITIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); PUBLIC HOUSING (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



156 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/Herbert Jose de Souza;
A Hard Look at Brazil's Surfeits: Food, Hunger and Inequality

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
BOOSTERS of Brazil like to point out that during the 1980's this enormous nation became the world's third largest food exporter, outranked only by the United States and France.
Herbert Jose de Souza likes to point out that during the 1980's, the legions of Brazilians who live with hunger expanded from 25 million people to 35 million people. 
 With his sad eyes, bulbous nose, rubbery mouth and tufts of gray hair on a balding dome, this frail, diminutive 57-year-old sociologist has a bit of the air of a retired circus clown. But his message is serious and his appeal persistent; and with these, he has become the conscience of Latin America's largest nation.
"Looking at the human and natural resources of Brazil, I have never found any scientific reason why we cannot feed our 50 million people," he said in a recent conversation, touching on a subject that economists generally tiptoe around. "The problem is that the Brazilian elites don't see the poor. It's a problem of negation of other people."
Campaigning against hunger in this rich agricultural land, Mr. de Souza has won an unexpected ally in President Itamar Franco. Brazilian presidents have usually taken a laissez-faire attitude toward problems of malnutrition. One military president in the 1970's even remarked: "Brazil is doing fine. It's the people who are doing poorly."
But many Brazilians are losing their patience with trickle-down economics. In fact, according to World Bank figures, the distribution of wealth in Brazil is among the most inequitable in the world. And in a country where the per capita income is now $2,920 a year, the United Nations says the number of Brazilians living on less than $1 a day increased by 40 percent to 35 million during the 1980's. And the portion of the population living on less than $2 a day increased from 34 percent to 41 percent in that decade.
President Franco, borrowing heavily from Mr. de Souza's ideas, has announced what may prove the most important initiative of his Government, the National Food Security Council. With the elfin sociologist standing by, Mr. Franco quoted Josue de Castro, a social critic from half a century ago: "Brazil has a population of insomniacs: those who can't sleep because they are hungry, and those who stay awake out of fear of those who don't have anything to eat."
Skeptics have derided Mr. de Souza and his anti-hunger campaign, saying he does not have a magic wand to create jobs or to redistribute Brazil's wildly skewed income.
 
The Society Responds
 But judging by society's response, Mr. de Souza and his anti-hunger campaign have hit on a deep-seated longing among Brazilians. Telephones never seem to stop ringing at his private study group here, the Brazilian Institute of Economic and Social Analyses. Television stations and newspapers carry frequent interviews with him. Auditoriums quickly fill up when he travels to inaugurate a new "Citizenship Committee Against Misery and for Life."
Mr. de Souza says many citizens shifted their energies to the anti-hunger campaign after popular outrage succeeded last year in forcing the ouster of President Fernando Collor de Mello, who was impeached on corruption charges.
"There is a deep desire among people to get out of their state of resignation, of inaction," he said. "This is a continuation of the ethical wave that started with the impeachment movement."
So far there has been little concrete action. Eight restaurants in Rio have started feeding leftover food to street people. A state-run food company has been forced to explain why 35,000 tons of corn, beans, rice and manioc flour are rotting in warehouses. The federal Government has promised to spare school lunch programs from austerity cuts.
"What has happened that is concrete in the struggle against hunger?" Mr. de Souza asked. "The concrete is this: a beginning of a change in consciences. Brazilian society is beginning to realize that misery is not acceptable."
"We either have to definitively accept that poverty and misery are part of our culture, and, therefore consolidate our social apartheid," he said. "Or we have to review our history, our vision of the world. There is no reason, no argument, no theory that justifies the existence of this misery."
Mr. de Souza, in other words, still holds to the socialist convictions that underlay an essay he wrote in 1956 that was titled "Capitalism and Misery." He argues that in this century, Brazil has moved straight from feudalism to "savage capitalism."
On one hand, Brazil is the world's second largest market for executive jets, after the United States. On the other hand, at least one-quarter of the nation goes to bed every night hungry.
"This is cultural -- there still is the plantation house and slave shanty mentality," he said of the social chasms that divide rich and poor in Brazil.
 
'Highly Inhuman'
 Noting that the nation's largest soybean producer never responded to an invitation to contribute to the anti-hunger campaign, Mr. de Souza said: "The Brazilian elite is highly inhuman, highly insensitive. The elite is not able to elaborate a concept of humanity that includes the poor."
As he talked in a soft, melodic Portuguese, the cries of hawkers from a street food market penetrated his office on the ground floor of a house in a middle-class neighborhood here. Outside, food stalls were piled with pyramids of oranges, pink stacks of boned chicken breasts, and melons sliced open to the sun.
Recognizing that the core of Brazil's malnutrition problem is not food supply, but purchasing power, Mr. de Souza said that jobs are the solution.
"We have to go back to the basics, to common sense," he argued. "The principal goal of an economy should be to generate employment. And an employed person has to be earning a decent salary."
The anti-hunger campaign was inaugurated with optimistic calls for "A New Millennium Without Misery," and the veteran activist bravely maintains that "despair is the disease of the elites."
But Mr. de Souza has special reason to doubt that he himself will ever see the goal achieved. For four and a half years, he has been taking AZT to hold off the ravages of AIDS.
As he talked, a bulky sweater vest and a shirt buttoned to the neck did little to disguise the fact that his weight has dwindled to 105 pounds. And even as he reviewed his hectic travel schedule for the weeks ahead, a note of fatigue entered his voice.
Mr. de Souza and his brother, Henrique, contracted the virus that causes AIDS while undergoing blood transfusions for hemophilia. Five years ago, Henrique de Souza Filho, better known as Henfil, died of AIDS.
"Henfil drew this 13 years ago," Mr. de Souza said, tearing a cartoon out of his monthly agenda book. "It shows how little things have changed."
The doodle showed a worried child listening as his equally worried mother read a report card: "Zero in Vitamin C, Zero in Vitamin D, Zero in Vitamin A."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Brazilian elites don't see the poor," says Herbert Jose de Souza. (John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FRANCE (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; DE SOUZA, HERBERT JOSE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



157 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Serbians Veer Closer to Their Extreme Edge

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
FOR Vojislav Seselj, it was a restrained performance. Barely two days before, this Serbian extremist had the pleasure of watching two detested political rivals being ground into the dust. One was the President of Yugoslavia, Dobrica Cosic, summarily dismissed by parliamentary intrigue that ended in a vote of no confidence. The other was Vuk Draskovic, the wild-eyed opposition leader whose long hair and beard summoned up for many Yugoslavs the image of Jesus Christ, now prostrate in prison with injuries from police beatings and facing charges for having led a protest that turned violent.
So Mr. Seselj (pronounced SHESH-el) was holding a press conference, his heavy frame squeezed behind a table in the headquarters of his Serbian Radical Party. On the walls around him were the icons of the cause -- the Serbian tricolor, portraits of saints, a mystical canvas of a bedraggled Serbian soldier and, at center, a likeness stamped in brass of the World War II Chetnik leader, Draza Mihailovic. Though the crowded room was as cramped as a coffin, he shouted replies in full voice: Serbia was under siege. Her people were being demonized by the media. No, he would never accept a peace plan with Lord Owen's signature. 
 Red-faced and gloating behind his glasses, he had the appearance of someone sitting in the catbird's seat, which is exactly where he is these days. Last week marked a turning point in the bizarre and paranoid world of Serbian politics and in the fortunes of Mr. Seselj -- Serbia's foremost ultra-nationalist and a man commonly called a psychopath by Western diplomats.
With Mr. Cosic a has-been, a voice of relative moderation has disappeared. With Mr. Draskovic out of commission after the demonstrations that followed Mr. Cosic's ouster, and with his party unable even to mount a protest over his beating, the opposition is shattered. Suddenly Mr. Seselj looms as the second most powerful person in the country next to President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia.
That does not augur well for an end to the savagery in neighboring Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Serbian fighters aligned with Mr. Seselj renewed attacks last week on Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, and besieged Muslim enclaves. The United Nations Security Council on Friday tried to do something to hold the Serbs in check, by voting to authorize air strikes and send additional troops to protect such enclaves, but the plan is widely viewed as only a stopgap. Moreover, the United States and its allies still disagree over when air power should be used and it will be months before the new troops are actually deployed.
 
Changing Fortunes
 Just weeks ago, the Western powers were able to take some encouragement from Serbian political developments. There was hope that Mr. Milosevic could be prodded down the path of peace with the whip of sanctions. When he did a U-turn and embraced the United Nations-European Community peace plan for Bosnia, Mr. Cosic, 72, the intellectual patriarch of Serbian nationalism, was there alongside him. He, too, traveled to Pale, the self-styled capital of the Bosnian Serb "republic," to try to persuade legislators there that they had no choice but to go along.
Mr. Seselj went there also, however, and unfortunately for his rivals he fought against the peace plan with every weapon at his command. If the West intervened militarily, so be it, he argued. But more cunning was his assertion that the Clinton Administration was just bluffing and that the Bosnian Serbs could reject the peace terms and get away with it. That is precisely what happened, a Western diplomat here observed, and that more than anything else has strengthened the hand of Mr. Seselj. Thus policy-makers in Washington and Europe have been made painfully aware that their decision not to act more forcefully has repercussions not just in Bosnia but in the internal politics of Serbia as well.
President Milosevic has a track record of turning against his allies when expediency calls for it. From this perspective, the ouster of Mr. Cosic, which could not have happened without Mr. Milosevic's blessing, was a sign that he was reading the local political winds. To recoup the prestige he lost at Pale and with outside pressure off, he decided to align himself with Mr. Seselj's Radicals.
The swing to the fringe complicates Western attempts to cajole Mr. Milosevic into cutting off the Bosnian Serb militias. He withdrew his offer to allow international monitors to check on the passage of goods across the border. The Government's rationale is "internal political considerations" -- meaning that the monitors would inflame and strengthen the Radicals.
Signs of Mr. Seselj's rise are not hard to find. During the weeks in which he was critical of Mr. Milosevic, the ultra-nationalist found himself denied access to state-run Serbian television. But now he is back on the screen. And in this land where persecution is a part of the national mythology, even the damage to the economy wrought by sanctions seems to have strengthened Mr. Seselj.
 
Scarred by Prison
 More ominously, he appears to be jockeying for control of the army. In recent weeks he has mounted a bizarre series of attacks on officers, especially the Chief of Staff, Gen. Zivota Panic. He has charged among other things that the General's son obtained a lucrative contract to sell potatoes to the army at an inflated price. A few days ago, the son was apprehended at the border with 12,000 German marks, an event that was seen as the harbinger of the General's downfall. Mr. Seselj predicted that he would be out within days.
Mr. Seselj belongs to a crop of current leaders among the remnants of Yugoslavia who were jailed for nationalist sentiments in the Communist era. He was born in 1956 in eastern Herzegovina, a hotbed of Serbian fervor, and became a political science professor at Sarajevo University. In 1984 he was arrested on a charge of trying to overthrow the Yugoslav state and sentenced to eight years in prison. The sentence was reduced and he ended up serving two years, but six months of it was in solitary confinement, and during that time he is believed to have been beaten and tortured. Acquaintances say the experience scarred him deeply.
Remarkably, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Draskovic were once close; in fact, Mr. Draskovic is the godfather of Mr. Seselj's son. Together they founded the Serbian Renewal Movement, still Mr. Draskovic's party. But in 1990 Mr. Seselj broke away and Mr. Draskovic began his soulful transformation to dissident and pacifist.
It is difficult to overestimate Mr. Seselj's passion. He shouts insults in Parliament, where his party is now the second-largest. He once proposed breaking into Tito's tomb to send the Communist leader's corpse to Croatia, since he was half Croat.
Some local journalists and pundits here believe that it is only a matter of time until the President and the Radical leader face each other down in a struggle for primacy. If the arena is "greater Serbia," including Serbian areas of Bosnia and perhaps even Croatia, then the advantage would swing to Mr. Seselj, whose appeal is stronger outside Serbia proper. But the consensus is that Mr. Milosevic is too crafty to allow that to happen. In the meantime, the alliance with the hard-liner seems to suit him.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vuk Draskovic, right, Serbian opposition leader, arguing with guards last week outside the Parliament building in Belgrade. (Reuters); Vojislav Seselj, leader of the ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party, at a press conference in Belgrade last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); RELIGION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); 

PERSON: DARNTON, JOHN; SESELJ, VOJISLAV; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



158 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: REPUBLICAN GAINS TEXAS SENATE SEAT

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 5

 BODY:
Kay Bailey Hutchison, the Texas State Treasurer and a Republican, was overwhelmingly elected to the United States Senate today after campaign in which she relentlessly focused on opposition to tax increases proposed by President Clinton.
Mrs. Hutchison, a 49-year-old former state representative, easily defeated Bob Krueger, the Democrat who was appointed to the seat earlier this year by Gov. Ann W. Richards after Lloyd Bentsen resigned to become Treasury Secretary. 
 With 99 percent of the state's 6,496 precincts reporting, Mrs. Hutchison led Mr. Krueger by more than 2 to 1, with 1,174,966 votes, or 67 percent, to his 567,414, or 33 percent.
With her victory she becomes the first woman the state has sent to the Senate and gives the state two Republicans in the Senate for the first time since Reconstruction. Her victory also was seen as a political setback both for President Clinton and Governor Richards. The Republican victory cut the Democrats' lead in the Senate to 56 to 44 but will surely have a symbolic value that transcends the importance of a single new Republican vote. It is expected to embolden the Republican minority, which was already successful this year in blocking major portions of President Clinton's economic stimulus package.
Mrs. Hutchison takes her place with six other women in the Senate, the fifth to be elected in the last year.
But because all but one are Democrats, Mrs. Hutchison could quickly become a Republican star as the party seeks to prove that it can be just as successful as the Democrats in recruiting female candidates that can win. Mrs. Hutchison favors abortion rights, though she was not as vigorous in her support as Mr. Krueger, who often noted during the campaign that she also favored the rights of states to impose limits on the procedure.
 
'Important Message' to Clinton
 Mrs. Hutchison, appearing before jubilant supporters at a Dallas hotel, said her election would send "a very important message" to Mr. Clinton. "The people are tired of taxes," she said. "They want someone to get serious about cutting government spending, and that's exactly what I intend to do."
In Austin, Mr. Krueger, who now has the unfortunate distinction of being the only politician in Texas to lose a campaign for the Senate in three different decades, was self-deprecating in a concession speech tonight. "If you cheer loud enough, we may make it to 40 percent," he told supporters.
Other Republicans in Texas wasted no time in crowing over Mrs. Hutchison's victory, portraying it as a humiliation not just for Mr. Clinton, but for Democratic leaders in Texas, including Ms. Richards, who is up for re-election next year.
"If Bill Clinton and Ann Richards can put a pretty face on this devastating defeat, they ought to be morticians instead of politicians," said Phil Gramm, Texas's other Senator.
For Mr. Clinton, Mr. Krueger's loss is a clear political blow. Republican leaders, including the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, said a decisive Republican victory would amount to a clear indication of dissatisfaction with the President's proposed budget.
Democrats in Texas and in Washington rushed to argue in recent days that the election was not really a referendum on the President because Mr. Krueger had taken pains to emphasize his independence from Mr. Clinton on some issues and his opposition to his proposed energy tax, which has proved to be political anathema in much of Texas.
The election was the fourth time since 1961 that the state has chosen a new senator.
After Lyndon B. Johnson resigned his Senate seat to become Vice President in 1961, Democrats fell into fratricide, and John G. Tower won a free-for-all special election, becoming the first Republican to win a Senate race in Texas since Reconstruction.
Mr. Gramm, won the election for Mr. Tower's seat seat in 1984. Mr. Bentsen defeated the liberal Democrat Ralph Yarborough in a 1970 primary.
 
Democrats Saw No Difficulties
 This time around, Democrats were hoping to mirror the Tower race. With Governor Richards, able to select Mr. Bentsen's interim successor and three major Republicans battling among themselves, many Democrats predicted that the party would have no difficulty holding onto the seat.
But party leaders squabbled over who the interim senator should be, and a host of well-known Democrats, including the former Mayor of San Antonio, Henry G. Cisneros, and Ms. Richards herself, passed up the opportunity to take the seat.
The Governor finally settled on Mr. Krueger, an Elizabethan scholar and former Congressman and Ambassador to Mexico, who had failed in two previous bids for the Senate and whose major virtue was that he had no big enemies in Texas politics.
 
Living Up to Stiff Image
 Mr. Krueger quickly lived up to his image as a stiff campaigner, and he was further damaged when he appeared to vacillate on some issues, including whether homosexuals should be allowed to serve in the military. He also had a wary political relationship with President Clinton.
At times, Mr. Krueger argued that it was important for Texas to elect a Democrat with access to the White House, but he also made a point of his independence from the President on issues like the proposed energy tax, which Mr. Krueger opposed.
On the Republican side, Mrs. Hutchison shocked nearly everyone in the race by placing first among 24 candidates in the first round of voting May 1, leading Mr. Krueger by a hair despite facing opposition from two Republican Congressmen, Jack Fields and Joe L. Barton.
 
Accusations Don't Stick
 She also appeared to have escaped largely unscathed from accusations by two former state workers that she had public employees perform personal errands on state time. One of the workers, Sharon Ammann, a daughter of former Gov. John B. Connally, also said Mrs. Hutchison had once struck her with a notebook in a fit of pique.
In the runoff two local Democratic officials in rural Central Texas contended that Mrs. Hutchison had traded the promise of a state job for a political endorsement during her 1990 race for State Treasurer.
In relentlessly seeking to capitalize on those issues Mr. Krueger ran the risk of turning off the voters or being perceived as too negative.
 
G.O.P. Lead in Fund Raising
 In any event, the perception that Mr. Krueger was behind in the race clearly had an effect in one important area: fund raising. In the most recent reports filed with the Federal Election Commission, covering the period from April 12 to May 16, Mrs. Hutchison reported receiving $1.98 million, nearly twice the amount collected by Mr. Krueger.
And the gap was even starker for the two-week period after the first round of voting on May 1: Mrs. Hutchison reported pulling in $1.4 million, while Mr Krueger collected $350,000.
Mrs. Hutchison consistently sought to focus the campaign on one issue: taxes. Virtually everywhere she went, she told rallies: "We do not have a deficit because people are taxed too little. We have a deficit because Washington spends too much."
Toward the end, focusing on health care, Mr. Krueger tried to capitalize on the same kind of concerns that propelled a Democratic victory for Harris Wofford in the Senate election in Pennsylvania two years ago. He called for a one-year price freeze on medicine and health-insurance premiums while Congress debated health-care reform. Mrs. Hutchison has opposed the move, saying it could curb medical research and force cancellation of some insurance policies.
Moreover, Mr. Krueger had difficulty selling his own image. At one point, he released a television commercial seeking to spoof his reputation as a stodgy professor. In it, he dressed up as Arnold Schwarzenegger and asked the camera, "Was it Shakespeare who said, 'Hasta la vista, baby?' " Mrs. Hutchison quickly responded with a television commercial of her own that said: "Hasta la vista, Bobby."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican, celebrating in Dallas last night after defeating Bob Krueger, the Democratic candidate, in the race for the Senate seat vacated by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; WOMEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); WOMEN (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: HUTCHISON, KAY BAILEY; RICHARDS, ANN (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; KRUEGER, BOB (SEN); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (94%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (91%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



159 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
 
U.N. TROOPS CLASH WITH SOMALIS 

At least 26 Pakistani troops with the United Nations force in Somalia were reported killed in combat against a warlord's fighters. 6
 
SERBS RENEW ATTACK IN BOSNIA
 
Bosnian Serbs launched new attacks on the U.N. "safe area" of Gorazde and on three towns along a corridor that links Serbia to Serb-held territory in Bosnia and Croatia. 12
 
War has changed the role of women in the patriarchal Balkans. 12
 
The U.N. will ask the U.S. and allies for troops to protect havens.13
 
ADVERSARY WALKS OUT ON YELTSIN
 
The Russian Parliament's chairman and 50 followers stormed out of a constitutional forum, accusing Boris Yeltsin seeking a dictatorship. 16
 
The U.S. offered a plan to dismantle Ukraine's atomic weapons. 16
 
MORE DATA THAN GAINS ON AIDS
 
While scientists have achieved much knowledge about the AIDS virus, it has yielded few clinical benefits. But impressive gains have been in treating opportunistic infections. 20
 
The U.N. health agency endorsed an injectable contraceptive. 20
 
HOME BUT UNWELCOME IN GERMANY
 
The children of hundreds of thousands of Turks who migrated to Germany in the 1960's are emerging as a new and assertive generation. 3
 
CLASH ON RIGHTS IS BUILDING
 
A split between developing and industrialized nations is threatening a human rights conference as third-world nations assert that Western standards are not universal. 14
 
Cambodia's former leader will try again to form a coalition. 9
 
Guatemala's Congress meets to choose a new president. 15
 
Israel proposes new law on divorce to protect women. 14
 
National 22-36
 
MORE SEE CLINTON AS A LIBERAL
 
 A growing number of Americans call President Clinton a liberal and say his economic plan relies too heavily on taxes, according to a new New York Times/CBS News Poll. 1
 
Denver voters say they are not sure they understand the President. 24
 
CLINTON IS STUCK BETWEEN POLES
 
News analysis: The furor over the nomination of Lani Guinier shows that President Clinton will not be able to avoid the divisive "false choices" of left and right. 26
 
Many want dental benefits to be covered by the health-care plan. 27
 
WOMAN WINS TEXAS SENATE SEAT
 
A Republican woman, Kay Bailey Hutchison, won a special election for the Senate seat vacated by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, defeating the interim Senator appointed by Gov. Ann W. Richards. 1
 
GRADUATES BEG FOR INTERVIEWS
 
The graduates of the nation's top science and engineering schools are having trouble finding jobs, with industry and the military cutting back research and development. 1
 
LESS AIR IN AIRLINE CABINS
 
Airlines are circulating less air in airplane cabins to save money, and flight attendants and passengers have complained of headaches, nausea and other health problems. 1
 
'DUMMIES' LINE UP TO BUY BOOK
 
Though several publishing houses thought "DOS for Dummies" was a title to insult customers, the book has sold 1.3 million copies in 18 months and shows no sign of slowing. 1
 
MAYOR'S RACE TOO CLOSE TO CALL
 
The tight run-off race for mayor in Los Angeles reflects the paradox of that multi-ethnic city, where the white minority maintains strong political power. 22
 
Officials say a mystery illness may be linked to a rodent virus. 23
 
Metro 37-50
 
PEROT A FACTOR IN PRIMARY
 
The three major candidates for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in New Jersey began the final weekend of their campaigns, trying to woo voters who last year gave up on Republicans and Democrats alike: supporters of Ross Perot. 1
 
LEADERSHIP CHANGES AT COLUMBIA
 
Columbia University's Board of Trustees approved a major administrative shake-up that the university's new president said was his first step to eliminate the university's $15 million annual deficit. 37
 
LINGERING TREMORS OF THE BLAST
 
While most workers have returned to their desks in the World Trade Center, interviews with dozens of men and women make it clear that the psychological impact of the Feb. 26 explosion lingers on. 37
 
DESPITE PERILS, CYCLISTS PEDAL ON
 
Recent crimes against cyclists may lead some to conclude that the dangers of urban bicycling are akin to post-apocalyptic road war, but the sport's enthusiasts say the real hazards have considerably less sinister origins. 37
 
The world of two boys in the Bronx is ripped apart by shooting. 39
 
Leaders work to scale back city government by $300 million. 39
 
After years of secrecy, the Freemasons open their doors -- a little. 44
 
Obituaries 48
 
Conway Twitty, country and western singer.
 
Janos Scholz, cellist, and an art collector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); UKRAINE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (53%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); CROATIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); UKRAINE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); AIRLINES (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); AIDS & HIV (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); VIRUSES (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); PUBLISHING (60%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



160 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Top Graduates in Science Also Put Dreams on Hold

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.

 BODY:
These are unsettling job-hunting times, even for the certifiably brilliant progeny of the nation's top schools in science and engineering.
Seniors who had their hearts set on creating the technologies of the next century are having trouble just lining up job interviews, and fresh new Ph.D.'s are settling for temporary teaching jobs offering little prospect of the security of tenure. 
 People graduating from colleges and universities with degrees in the humanities have been facing similar disappointments for four or five years.
But the phenomenon is now reaching the young scientists and mathematicians who have survived the rigorous schooling of places like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard, Stanford and the California Institute of Technology here as Government support for space and weapons development continues to wither.
 
Caltech's Special Place
 Of the top schools, Caltech is especially exposed because it is the most specialized. It has been the cerebral cradle of Southern California's aerospace industry, feeding alumni and research to companies like Northrop, Rockwell International, Lockheed, McDonnell Douglas and Hughes.
But by the week before Caltech's June 11 commencement, only six of the 225 Caltech graduating seniors had received job offers from those companies, while more than half their classmates planned to go to graduate school in September.
One Caltech student, Stephen Turner, a second-year graduate student in mathematics, was sitting alone on a low concrete wall outside Caltech's Firestone Flight Sciences Laboratory one recent day. Mr. Turner, 25, said he once expected to spend a career in the aerospace industry, and like many students here, he started early. For five summers, he worked with engineering teams at the Lockheed Corporation. But he said he would not reapply.
"I found it difficult to walk around there while people with families were being let go," he said. And, he said, the same thing could happen to him.
In the meantime, he is engaged in a waiting game he calls "recession surfing." Financial aid provides his subsistence while he considers whether to follow the lead of many Caltech graduates -- earning a Ph.D. so he can teach.
But that option, too, is fading. Of Caltech's 70 Ph.D. graduates last year who chose to teach or do research at a university, 55 accepted a type of professorship known as a "post doc," a temporary fellowship typically for one to three years and often part time, with neither health insurance nor the right to earn tenure.
Sally J. Asmundson, the career development director at Caltech, said more than half of Caltech's graduating seniors are heading to graduate school. In addition, she said, 20 will be going to medical school. Last year, two did. Students who get good jobs are finding them outside the aerospace industry, often with computer and computer programming concerns. Or they are going further afield, into management consulting and investment concerns.
 
Influence Exceeds Size
 Caltech is tiny, with just 850 undergraduates and 1,100 graduate students. But its influence exceeds its size. The institute runs the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the nation's foremost center of solar system research.
It has produced 21 Nobel Prize winners, including Linus Pauling, who won two, and four are now teaching at the university. The freshman class that entered last year had an average score on the Scholastic Aptitude Test of 1,430, the highest in the nation.
As in industry, cuts in military spending are forcing universities into some soul searching about their fundamental missions. At Caltech a faculty committee is re-examining the core of the university's mission, the 72-year-old tried-and-true curriculum that requires two years of physics, two of mathematics, one of chemistry and one course each term in the humanities.
Thomas E. Everhart, a physicist and president of Caltech, said, "We are now thinking, 'Do we have the right courses?' " But he did not expect a big change.
Unlike competitors that have schools of humanities, business, law and medicine, Caltech's fortunes are tied almost entirely to science, engineering and mathematics. It has few real financial worries as yet. For its size, it has an enormous endowment, about $600 million. But it depends on Federal money for half its operating budget.
With the end of the growth of the aerospace industry, David Goodstein, the vice provost, predicted a shakeout among universities that produce the nation's Ph.D. scientists. "There will be very few who survive," he said, "and among those few will be Caltech."
But "the mood is darkening," he said, adding, "Professors are now spending more time appealing to Government agencies for funds than teaching." Caltech has so far succeeded in keeping the financing stable, he said. "We're very good at it," he said. "But we don't like it."
Students admitted here have backgrounds of hard, slogging school work. Michael Klitzke, 24, is typical. Here on a full scholarship, Mr. Klitzke grew up in Oshkosh, Wis. His mother, divorced, is a factory worker there. His father is an auto mechanic in Phoenix.
"I wasn't good in elementary school and junior high," he said. But frightened by warnings that the work would be hard in high school, he buckled down and earned all A's the first term.
"Then in sophomore year," he said, "I got placed in honors classes with kids from college families. Their parents' expectations were, 'Of course you're going to college.' " Inspired again, he kept piling up A's. He graduated second in a class of 356.
Some students have abandoned thoughts of aerospace careers with ease. Mr. Klitzke, drawn to Caltech by a little-boy fascination with aviation, said the contraction of the industry gave him pause. He is leaving in June with two degrees, in physics and mechanical engineering, and going to the University of California at Los Angeles for a Ph.D., where he plans to continue his study of a new technology for processing materials as small as a speck of dusk, called micromachining.
With it he thinks he can develop a device that he can slip into a human artery and plow out the fat that inhibits blood flow, causing heart attacks. After his schooling, he said he and friends at Caltech want to start a company to exploit the technology.
David Krider, a senior, is fleeing aerospace, too. "My freshman year," he said, "I was going to be an aeronautical engineer." He then spent two years as a Mormon missionary in Chile, where he was impressed by the power of national economic policy.
"Americans have no idea what force economics can play in someone's life," he said. He abandoned aeronautics and will graduate next month with a double major in economics and computer science. Mr. Krider is going to work for an institutional money management concern for a year or two and then may go to one of the five graduate schools that have accepted his application to pursue a Ph.D. in finance.
But the more common attitude here is dismay. Julien Chen, a senior and chemistry major, said he had sent job applications to 11 employers. Just one, a private high school in New Jersey, made an offer. He wants a better paying job, and one that is more cerebral, in industry, so he is going to the University of California at San Francisco to study biophysics. That might lead to a job in a biotechnology company.
Michael Anshelevich, 21, a Russian, emigrated to Texas three years ago, entered the University of Texas and switched to Caltech, where he is completing his sophomore year majoring in mathematics.
He said he is planning to become an American citizen and wants to start a university career doing basic research in mathematics. Such pure research has no clear purpose beyond the joy of discovery, but discovery sometimes becomes the stuff of Nobel prizes and the seeds of new industries.
 
'Helpful to Start at Top'
 "I want to work in mathematics to satisfy my own curiosity," Mr. Anshelevich said. "History proves that people who work for themselves will produce applications that are useful to society." Caltech, he thought, would be his launching pad. "It's very helpful to start at the top," he said.
To his chagrin, however, Mr. Anshelevich has noticed that Caltech mathematicians are struggling to find jobs in academia, and now, he said, he might have to seek work in a business in which jobs are plentiful -- computer programming. "I prefer not to think about it," he said.
Still, a few students remain so hooked to the dreams that brought them here they think they can beat the trends of the job market. "I want to be an astronaut," said Rhonda Morgan, who is completing her sophomore year and majoring in electrical engineering.
"I think we will always have some sort of space program," she said. "If there's one astronaut left, I'll be it. If the space program is not available for me to be an astronaut, I will make sure it is available for someone else."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rhonda Morgan and Michael Klitzke, students at California Institute of Technology. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (84%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ACADEMIC TENURE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T STEPHEN C TURNER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



161 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Like Caesar, Clinton Gets No Praise

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, June 5

 BODY:
At the 20th Street Cafe, where biscuits and gravy costs $1.99 and political banter is dished out for free, customers this morning were grousing about Bill Clinton as if they had been given the wrong plate of breakfast.
"This wasn't the guy we voted for," said Gilbert Castellano, a 59-year-old postal worker, as he leaned over a steaming cup of coffee. "What happened to the old Bill Clinton?" 
 As a candidate, Mr. Clinton had been seen by the 20th Street customers as a down-to-earth Arkansan, a friend to working people, a politician willing to put some Washington sacred cows out to pasture.
But voters here said they were not quite sure how they see Mr. Clinton anymore. And that troubles them.
 
Counting the Retreats
 "He's not willing to fight for anything to the bitter end," said Scott Little, a 52-year-old bus driver, who said his elation over Mr. Clinton's election had withered into deep disappointment. "He's a people pleaser to a ludicrous extreme. And people aren't taking him seriously anymore."
The diners ticked off the issues on which Mr. Clinton had seemed to take a position, only to retreat: homosexuals in the military, higher minimum wages and grazing fees on ranchers.
Discussing the latest reversal, voters expressed exasperation over the handling of the nomination of Lani Guinier to lead the Justice Department's civil rights office. While most people here said they did not know much about Ms. Guinier's politics, they said Mr. Clinton seemed to lack backbone.
"If he wanted her, he should fight for her," Mr. Castellano said. What was most troubling, he went on, was that Mr. Clinton "didn't seem to have done his homework."
 
Poor Judgment Seen
 Many voters here said they had believed that by electing Mr. Clinton, they would get a more conservative Democrat. "Whatever happened to welfare reform?" asked a waitress with a grimace.
Now many said Mr. Clinton had lost touch with everyday workers.
"Conservatives don't get $200 haircuts," said Don Utesh, a retired meatpacker.
Others complained that Mr. Clinton had been guilty of poor political judgment.
 
Adding to Frustration
 "First thing out of the gate, what does he push? Gays in the military and higher taxes," said Brian Bunch, 43, as he rolled his eyes. "I could have given him better advice than that."
Some voters said Mr. Clinton's problems had only worsened their frustration with Government.
"People wanted something different," said Rod Okuno, a 40-year-old cook, as he broke eggs into a bowl. "But we've got the same old problems. It seems like nobody can get it together in Washington."
Mr. Castellano said his faith in Mr. Clinton had rested largely on his modest background. "But now every time you look up," he said, "he's with some movie star."
To those who had voted for Mr. Clinton, what hurt most of all was that the President seemed to have become an object of ridicule. "People will come up and ask, 'Have you heard the latest Bill Clinton joke?' " Mr. Bunch said. He recalled that a friend had recently given him a paper clip attached to a penny.
"What's that?" Mr. Bunch asked.
"A Bill Clinton money clip," the friend answered with a laugh.
Not everybody in the coffee shop was ready to dismiss Mr. Clinton. "He just got in; give him some time," said Tony Solano, 65. "I know people are getting aggravated with him. But the Republicans had 12 years. He's not going to change things right away."
But behind the counter, a 49-year-old waitress, Marie Struck, talked about her fading hopes for Mr. Clinton and shook her head.
 
Hopes for Economy Fade
 "He's changed since he became President," she said. "I don't know what it is. Maybe it's being in the White House. But he's different."
As the high hopes for Mr. Clinton have faded, so too have the hopes for the economy. "I don't expect things to get much better anytime soon," Ms. Struck said.
Mr. Little, the bus driver, said the President seemed to have forgotten the issues that elected him.
"He was elected to fix the economy," Mr. Little said. "But he's not focusing on that."
As a union member, Mr. Little said he had initially hoped Mr. Clinton would move to strengthen organized labor. "Now I just hope he steers clear of union issues," he said, "since he seems to botch everything he touches."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gilbert Castellano, 59, a postal worker, said Mr. Clinton had shed his modest image. "Every time you look up, he's with some movie star."; "People wanted something different," said Rod Okuno, a 40-year-old cook at the 20th Street Cafe in Denver. "But we've got the same old problems. It seems like nobody can get it together in Washington." (Photographs by Helen H. Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (90%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO) UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSON, DIRK BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



162 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Black Lobby Group to Include Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
With a celebration more reminiscent of a movie premiere than a staid research group, TransAfrica, the lobby best known for its anti-apartheid campaign, opened its foreign policy institute here this weekend.
In a city with dozens of research institutes offering intellectual grist for everything from urban policy to the arcana of international affairs, another "think tank" would seem superfluous. 
 But Randall Robinson, executive director of TransAfrica, said United States policy toward Africa and the Caribbean, subjects of particular concern to black Americans, often got short shrift because there had been no center providing analysis of Washington's foreign policy in these areas.
"This town produces policy as a result of a competition of policy ideas," Mr. Robinson said during a tour of the institute a few days before its opening. "We have never competed evenly institutionally in the area of foreign affairs. That's why we wanted a fully fleshed out think tank to grind out the analysis that represents the interest of our community."
Mr. Robinson said TransAfrica Forum, the official name of TransAfrica's research institute, would provide that counterpoint.
Those sentiments were echoed by many of the 500 guests on Friday as Bryant Gumbel, the NBC News anchor, served as host at the dedication of the institute in a newly renovated historic building that once housed the German Embassy. Among the guests were Donna Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services; the news anchors Ted Koppel and Bernard Shaw, and Iman, the Somalian-born model.
Arthur Ashe's widow, Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, said the institute focused on issues that had concerned her husband. The institute's library is named for Mr. Ashe, who served on the board of TransAfrica since its founding in 1977.
TransAfrica, a lobbying group of black Americans on African and Caribbean issues, was the driving force behind the campaign for United States economic sanctions against South Africa. The sanctions were lifted in 1989 as the result of South Africa's move toward abolishing apartheid.
Much the way Israel courts American Jewish opinion, African and Caribbean leaders have increasingly tried to influence United States policy toward their countries by courting black American opinion. During Angola's civil war, both sides in the conflict competed for black American support. The exiled President of Haiti, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, has also sought support from black Americans; he was among the guests at the institute's ceremony on Friday.
Equally, many prominent black Americans have shown an interest in exercising their influence.
Among those contributing to the institute are Bill Cosby, who raised $430,000 at two dinners with the help of the actors Robert Guillaume and Joyce Deep, and the former boxer Sugar Ray Leonard contributed $250,000. Corporations that do substantial business with blacks have also shown interest in supporting the venture.
TransAfrica has 20,000 or so members in 12 chapters around the country and many prominent black members. There is no precise way to gauge whether its policy positions on Africa and the Caribbean reflect the views of most black Americans. Some critics of the organization argue that it is too liberal and too sympathetic to third-world leaders.
"As long as they're not the exclusive voice, this institute is a wonderful thing," said Sanford Ungar, dean of the school of communications at American University and a longtime commentator on Africa. "They've sometimes tended to ignore the domestic record of some African leaders."
The institute's new five-story headquarters in the Dupont Circle area, where many lobbies and research groups make their homes, includes a 6,000-volume library, a computer center, a public reading room and space for meetings, administrative work and a scholars' advisory council.
The forum will offer programs including one that works with historically black colleges to train students for the Foreign Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); SOMALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

COMPANY: TRANSAFRICA (ORGN) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (68%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (92%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSAFRICA (ORGN) TRANSAFRICA FORUM (92%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA; CARIBBEAN AREA UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); SOMALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; BLACKS (IN US); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); LOBBYING (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, RANDALL; DE WITT, KAREN BRYANT CHARLES GUMBEL (55%); EDWARD JAMES 'TED' KOPPEL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



163 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Differing Views on Human Rights Threaten Forum

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 5

 BODY:
Deep divisions between developing and industrialized nations threaten the success of a conference this month on strengthening human rights. At issue is a contention by many third-world nations that Western standards of justice and fairness do not necessarily apply to other cultures.
Those countries are also seeking assurances that the West will not use their records on human rights to withhold aid or other economic benefits that the countries say would violate their right to development. 
 Increasingly, aid donors like the United States, as well as international institutions like the World Bank, are making assistance contingent not only on prudent economic policies, but also on the adoption of democratic systems that encourage human rights.
 
Mistake in the Making
 The conference, which opens on June 14 in Vienna, appears to be in serious trouble before it begins. The meeting is the first that the United Nations has called on the issue since a session in Teheran, Iran, 25 years ago, and many Western officials and human rights agencies say it may be a mistake.
Western diplomats and organizations say outright failure would be preferable to a compromise that would weaken their strongly held beliefs not only that human rights have already been defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the General Assembly adopted in 1948, but also that those standards apply equally to all the peoples of the world.
"It is the strong purpose of the Clinton Administration to side with the worldwide movement for universal human rights against any effort to undermine it," the Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, John Shattuck, said in an interview. "This conference does not have to agree on a final statement."
Many representatives of third-world countries contend that the declaration was drawn up by the founding members of the United Nations, most of which are Western industrialized countries, and that it reflected their values at a time when most African and Asian countries were still colonies.
 
'Mainly Be Damage Control'
 Delegates at the fourth and final preparatory committee meeting for the conference, which ended in Geneva on May 7, failed to produce a consensus on a draft declaration. They issued a 50-page document, most of which is in brackets, meaning that some delegates disagreed with what it said.
The deputy director of the Human Rights Watch in New York, Kenneth Roth, said: "Vienna will mainly be damage control. Our primary goal will be to defend the principle of universality that has been central to human rights advocacy for 40 years."
A failure to approve a new declaration would show that the governments cannot agree on what constitutes justice and fairness. But Felice Gaer of the Jacob Blaustein Institute for Human Rights in New York, said, "No result at all would be better than a bad one."
 
Insistence on Assistance
 At three earlier meetings -- in Bangkok, Thailand; Tunis, and San Jose, Costa Rica -- Asian, African and Latin American nations adopted statements implying in part that different cultures have different human rights standards while insisting that developing countries have an absolute right to assistance with their economic development.
The most objectionable stand in Western eyes may be an Asian statement that says concepts of fairness and justice should be measured against "regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds." The statement was made under the influence of countries like China and Indonesia, which have been accused of serious rights violations.
In assessing abuses, the Africans stressed a need to take account of "the historical and cultural realities of each nation," but they also insisted that "the right to development is inalienable," implying that aid should not be linked to a county's human rights performance. The Latin Americans see their foreign debts as an obstacle to observing human rights conventions.
The Geneva document does show a consensus on new steps to protect women's rights. But the disputes over the universality of human rights and the right to development have prevented further agreement. Delegates could not even agree on condemning torture.
Western countries refused to hold a regional preparatory meeting before the conference or to draw up a statement, saying human rights should not be subject to further negotiation. The purpose of the conference, they say, is to decide on better enforcement. The Clinton Administration has made one concession, dropping a distinction made by the Reagan and Bush Administrations between civil and political rights on the one hand and economic, social and cultural ones on the other.
 
Acceptance of Argument
 To avoid "a sterile debate at Vienna," State Department officials say the Administration is ready to accept the third-world contention that it has economic, social and cultural rights. The Republicans argued that conceding third-world economic, social and cultural rights encouraged developing countries to weaken the United Nations by using it as a platform for demanding economic policies that shift wealth from rich to poor and would be unacceptable to Western countries.
But State Department officials now say although the Administration accepts both groups of rights, it still thinks that civil and political rights have to be observed immediately and that economic, social and cultural rights can be achieved only "incrementally, in step with development."
The Administration will also press for the creation of the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights to monitor nations in the same that way the High Commissioner for Refugees oversees refugees. But the United States suggestion that the commissioner be in charge of the United Nations human rights center in Geneva has aroused controversy. Some monitoring organizations would prefer a more independent commissioner in New York, close to the Secretary General and the Security Council.
For the the head of the center in Geneva, Ibrahima Fall, the conference in Vienna should have one objective, to give the United Nations the resources and machinery to respond quickly to human rights abuses around the world.
"At present, less than 1 percent of the United Nations budget and less than 0.75 percent of its staff are dedicated to human rights," Mr. Fall said. "We have less money and resources than Amnesty International, and we're the arm of the United Nations for human rights. This is clearly ridiculous."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); IRAN (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; AFRICA UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); IRAN (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; SHATTUCK, JOHN (ASST SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



164 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Aspin Meets Russian in Bid to Take Ukraine's A-Arms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARMISCH, Germany, June 5

 BODY:
Stepping up the American campaign to persuade the Ukrainians to give up their nuclear weapons, Defense Secretary Les Aspin came here today to discuss with Russia a new plan to dismantle Ukraine's nuclear missiles and place their warheads under international supervision.
Mr. Aspin met with the Russian Defense Minister, Gen. Pavel S. Grachev. The plan is intended to resolve a Russian-Ukrainian dispute on how to deal with the warheads that would be removed from Ukraine's missiles if Ukraine gave up its nuclear arms. 
 Under the plan, the warheads would at first be put under the control of international inspectors, then sent to Russia for dismantling.
Mr. Aspin discussed the Ukraine issue with General Grachev today. He did not present the plan, but he may do so on Sunday. Mr. Aspin is also expected to take up the question of joint American-Russian military exercises, as well as issues of nuclear testing and the setting of targets for nuclear weapons.
 
A Major Concern for Clinton
 With Prime Minister Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine telling members of his Parliament that their country should retain some of the 176 nuclear-tipped missiles left on its soil by the former Soviet Union, the Ukrainian issue has become a central concern for the Clinton Administration.
Though other Ukrainian leaders disagree with Mr. Kuchma, Gen. John M. Shalikashvili of the United States, NATO's commander, said it was "frightening" that a Ukrainian leader of Mr. Kuchma's standing had called for retaining any nuclear weapons.
After completing talks with General Grachev on Sunday morning, Mr. Aspin is to fly to Kiev to meet with the Ukrainian Defense Minister, Konstanin Morozov.
American officials say the nuclear debate in Kiev is fueled by deep-seated concerns of Ukrainians that their independence might be short-lived and their country absorbed in a new version of the Russian empire.
The breakup of the Soviet Union left three countries besides Russia with nuclear weapons on their soil. Belarus has agreed to give up its nuclear weapons by the end of next year, and Kazakhstan has ratified the 1991 strategic arms reduction treaty known as Start 1 but so far has not agreed to renounce nuclear arms. Ukraine has taken neither step.
 
Effect on Arms Treaties
 While Administration officials say Ukraine's reluctance to dismantle its nuclear arsenal is understandable, the position has had serious costs. It has aggravated Kiev's relations with Moscow and led Russia and the United States to delay the arms cuts agreed to under the Start 1 and Start 2 treaties.
Administration officials are also worried that Ukraine's stand may hurt efforts to control the spread of nuclear weapons.
American officials say Ukrainian officials can be grouped into three camps. Those who favor the dismantling of the nuclear arsenal include President Leonid Kravchuk, Foreign Minister Anatoly Zlenko and Defense Minister Morozov.
In another category are Ukrainians who favor holding on to the weapons for the time being so Kiev can trade them for more generous economic aid and some sort of security assurances. In the third category are legislators and nationalists who want to hold on to the weapons at all costs.
The Clinton Administration's strategy is to try to strengthen the first two groups against the third.
 
Plan for Warheads
 The new warhead plan is a means to this end. Under the plan, the warheads would be removed from the Ukrainian missiles. They would be put under the control of international inspectors.
The warheads would then gradually be sent to Russia. There, the highly enriched uranium from the warheads could be removed and sold to Washington. American officials estimate that Ukraine could earn several billion dollars from such transactions.
Alternatively, the highly enriched uranium could be converted to low-grade uranium and returned to Ukraine for civilian use.
The plan is meant to ease worries of the Ukrainians that they might not be fairly compensated if they handed their nuclear warheads directly to Russia. It also addresses their concern that Russia might put the warheads on Russian missiles and aim them at Ukraine.
Not all of the technical details have been worked out, so the Administration intends to present it in only the most general terms.
The plan also poses some political difficulties for both sides. Mr. Aspin's team is carrying a draft charter that would be issued if Ukraine agreed to ratify the strategic arms treaty and give up its nuclear arms. The charter would express American support for Ukraine's independence, but Washington remains adamantly opposed to giving Ukraine NATO membership or extending the American nuclear umbrella to protect it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UKRAINE; RUSSIA UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT NUCLEAR WEAPONS (97%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); 

PERSON: ASPIN, LES (SEC); GRACHEV, PAVEL S (MIN); GORDON, MICHAEL R HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



165 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Current Crop of College Graduates Finds Job Market Painfully Tight

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
As the nation's 1.3 million college seniors graduate this year, they face what economists and demographers call one of the harshest job climates in a quarter-century. The recession's lingering effects are chilling new job creation, while corporate cutbacks are altering the type of jobs available.
"Clearly, the recession has been tough," said Richard J. Murnane, a Harvard economist who has studied the job market. "Companies are using overtime instead of hiring, and line workers are increasingly college graduates." 
 The turbulence created by the recession and job reductions is not exactly what students and parents had in mind four years ago, when most of this year's graduates began preparing for what they thought would be careers in business, engineering, health or other vocations. But college and university job placement officials say the outlook is grim.
"In the past, there would always be some fields, like engineers, that did well, regardless of the economy," said Thom Rakes, assistant director of the planning and placement center at the University of Missouri at Columbia, "But the engineers are right there with everyone else at this point."
 
Waiting Out Bad Times
 Mr. Rakes said many college graduates were taking lower-paying jobs to wait out the bad times.
As the economy improves, even though unevenly and slowly, economists say, the job outlook will improve slightly. But long-term job prospects look less encouraging: corporate shrinkage is expected to continue through the 1990's and beyond.
An estimated 24.6 million new jobs are expected to be created for the 15-year period ending in 2005, according to a projection by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, down from the 33 million new jobs created from 1975 to 1990.
Among the occupations expected to grow rapidly through 2005 are nursing and other health-care specialties as well as computer programming and other computer-technology-related jobs, according to the bureau's projections.
This year's graduates are increasingly filling jobs like sales representative posts in service industries, jobs that were filled by people with only high school degrees 15 years ago. These positions have been altered by corporate cutbacks, and these lower-rung employees are being given more responsibilities in many companies, Mr. Murnane said.
The availability of a whole class of jobs, too, is declining, said the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Those jobs include assembly-line work, clerical and support staff, and electrical and electronic equipment service. High school graduates normally fill these jobs, but now college graduates are competing for the dwindling number of positions.
Even the encouraging job growth reported in May is unlikely to improve the immediate prospects for this year's graduates, economists says.
Perhaps most disturbing to graduates is the salary outlook. Wage increases grew in the 1980's at annual rates of 2 percent to 3 percent, but economists say such increases are likely to be rare this decade. In 1990, the average annual salary for all workers was $29,912 as against $6,845 in 1967; when the 1967 sum is adjusted to account for inflation, it becomes $26,786.
Expectations for continuing salary increase have been dashed, Mr. Murnane said, adding, "There is no evidence that is going to change very fast."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Winners and Losers," lists occupations that are expected to gain or lose large numbers of jobs from 1990 to 2005 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MISSOURI, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIRING AND PROMOTION; FORECASTS EMPLOYMENT (97%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); STATISTICS (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); OVERTIME (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



166 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Trustees Back Shift of Deans At Columbia

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Columbia University's Board of Trustees yesterday approved an administrative shake-up that the university's incoming president said was his first step to eliminate the university's $15 million operating deficit and to establish stronger control over its sprawling arts and sciences faculty.
The new president, George E. Rupp, presented the changes, which include the replacement of three deans and a vice president, to the Columbia trustees at their quarterly meeting. Mr. Rupp, who is now the president of Rice University in Houston, made clear in an interview before the meeting that he was planning further restructuring after he succeeded Michael I. Sovern on July 1. 
 "This is not the only step I'm going to take at Columbia, but it seemed an important place to start," Mr. Rupp said.
The shake-up was a bold move by Mr. Rupp, even before his formal installation, to take control of an Ivy League university that has recently suffered not only from problems like crime and campus crowding that are consequences of its urban setting, but also from administrative problems like a substantial budget shortfall, low faculty morale and interdepartmental rivalry.
 
Some Grumbling Hinted
 Henry L. King, a lawyer who is chairman of the University's board, hinted in an interview that there was some grumbling among the 24 trustees during their meeting in Low Library yesterday about the sudden manner in which two deans were replaced, which some professors said broke with long traditions of faculty consultation.
But Mr. King said the trustees approved the changes "with unanimity and enthusiasm," indicating that Mr. Rupp has managed to achieve consensus quickly behind his plans for an overhaul.
One of the administrators who was replaced, Jack Greenberg, dean of Columbia College, said he had received messages of support from faculty members skeptical about the wisdom of Mr. Rupp's moves. But many other professors interviewed in the last few days strongly endorsed the changes as a promising effort to bolster campus unity and confront the university's fiscal difficulties.
Mr. Rupp went to work first on the arts and sciences faculty, he said, because he considers its well-being and cohesion to be central to the health of the larger university, which has about 20,000 students.
The arts and sciences faculty, which operates alongside the university's health sciences faculty and its six professional schools, includes 28 departments and oversees Columbia College, which is the center of undergraduate life, as well as four other schools.
"When you say arts and sciences, you're talking about a hell of a large chunk of the university," Mr. Rupp said. "And that's why it's been so Balkanized. It's been going in every possible direction. Somebody has got to pull it together and get it walking in a direction that makes sense for Columbia as a whole."
 
An Aggressive Look Promised
 In the shake-up, Steven Marcus, an English professor, replaces Mr. Greenberg as college dean as well as replacing Martin Meisel, vice president for arts and science, one of the university's seven vice presidents, who had earlier said he was resiging.
Caroline Walker Bynum, a history professor, becomes dean of the School of General Studies, and Eduardo Macagno, a neurobiologist, replaces Roger Bagnall as dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Ms. Bynum and Mr. Macagno were also named associate vice presidents.
Mr. Rupp's decision to give all three deans vice presidential duties has aroused controversy.
"I was concerned, on the financial side, about structuring the faculty so that any unnecessary duplication and bureaucratization could be resolved," Mr. Rupp said. "And I wanted to put a leadership team in there that would look aggressively at the faculty of arts and sciences as a whole."
The changes, which are to become effective when Mr. Rupp takes formal control, surprised many on the Morningside Heights campus, especially because at Rice and as dean of the Harvard Divinity School, Mr. Rupp built an image as a cautious administrator.
 
'A Take-Charge C.E.O.'
 "I'm not uncomfortable with viewing myself as a take-charge C.E.O. -- that's what a president ought to do," he said. "But it's not my usual practice to move into a new situation and make abrupt personnel changes."
He said that he had undertaken the moves so quickly only because a number of faculty posts had been left vacant since Mr. Sovern announced his retirement last year and because it made no sense to fill them without beginning a more extensive restructuring.
Mr. Rupp, who flew to New York from Houston on Thursday for the trustees' meeting, said that since his selection in February he had made a dozen similar trips to study Columbia's problems. In addition, he said, he read through a year's back issues of The Spectator, the student newspaper, boning up on the texture of recent campus life.
At their meeting, the trustees approved an annual budget of $1.05 billion that includes a deficit of about $15 million, which Mr. Rupp said he hoped to eliminate within a year.
"There's been significant progress toward reducing this deficit, but significant financial restraints remain," he said. "The institution is still spending more money than it's taking in."
 
Personnel Cuts Possible
 "We're not talking about a Draconian budget ax hanging over the institution," he said. "I think we'll be able to manage a transition to a completely balanced budget over the next year without having to make substantial personnel cuts."
Later he added: "I don't want to go into print saying there will be absolutely no cuts in personnel."
Mr. Rupp said he hoped the three professors he appointed as deans and as vice presidents would "command the respect of their colleagues so they can collectively take responsibility for ways of achieving economy and basically living with their means."
The main thrust of the restructuring, however, was not financial, Mr. Rupp said, but rather to counteract what he called the "centrifugal forces" tearing at university cohesion.
Ms. Bynum said those forces have intensified as professors have emphasized their own research over teaching.
 
Competition for Professors
 "Professors will think of publishing a paper to impress the physicists at Boston University rather than sitting down with the chemists at Columbia to resolve some problem between their fields," Ms. Bynum said. "Or a medieval historian might be more interested in relating to the Pontifical Institute in Montreal, rather than talking to Columbia's English Lit people about teaching a joint course."
Competition between Columbia's rival institutions is another problem, she said, since professors on the arts and science faculty generally teach in more than one of its five schools, each of which has its own schedule and makes competing demands on professors' time.
"As one person you can be pulled apart by different administrations," Ms. Bynum said. "This is is not only a centrifugal tendency; it wastes everybody's time."
Mr. Bagnall, a professor of ancient history, questioned the wisdom of loading the three deans with vice presidential responsibilities. Both deans and university vice presidents already labor under extraordinary workloads, he said.
"Obviously, as a citizen of the university, I hope this works," Mr. Bagnall said. "But it's a dramatic change from the way things have worked here in the past."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Somebody has got to pull it together and get it walking in a direction that makes sense for Columbia as a whole," said George E. Rupp, the incoming president of Columbia University, of the university's undergraduate and graduate arts and sciences programs. He spoke with Herbert Pardes, a vice president, yesterday after a meeting of the trustees. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (72%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (90%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); RICE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); TEXAS, USA (72%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LAWYERS (69%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; RUPP, GEORGE E MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



167 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON FAULTED ON HAITI SANCTIONS

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 5

 BODY:
Even as the Clinton Administration adopts new sanctions to punish the military-backed Government of Haiti, officials of other nations and American analysts of Haitian affairs say Washington has failed to apply the type of pressure needed to restore the elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, to power.
On Friday, with senior Administration officials' saying that they were imposing "a very high price" for the continued defiance by the military leaders of Haiti against international demands for a return to democracy, President Clinton signed an executive order freezing the assets of and barring travel to the United States by backers of the coup in September 1991 that overthrew Father Aristide. 
 Critics of Washington's diplomatic approach say although the measures are the first punitive actions by the Clinton Administration against the leaders in Port-au-Prince, they are far from new. As with President Clinton's decision to continue the Bush Administration policy of summary repatriations of Haitians fleeing their country at sea -- a policy that the President had harshly criticized when he was a candidate -- the critics say Mr. Clinton is again adopting tactics of his predecessor, which proved ineffective in settling the crisis.
President Bush, too, banned travel to this country by people thought to be important supporters of the coup leaders, although he later dropped the ban. Likewise, the Bush Administration froze Haitian state assets and repeatedly warned that individual assets might be seized, as well, if progress was not made toward a return of democracy.
 
Protection of Holdings
 Clinton Administration officials have declined to estimate publicly the value of the private assets they expect to freeze but concede privately that with the possibility for such an action being waved for a long time before the tiny but economically potent Haitian elite, many, if not most, of its members had already acted to protect their holdings.
Even before the latest measures, analysts, including supporters and opponents of Father Aristide's return, were discounting their potential effects and saying that by following such a studiously gradualist approach the Administration was unlikely to secure Father Aristide's return.
"The Clinton Administration team has treated this thing like suburban social workers, when in fact what they've needed is someone used to dealing with Chicago gangs," said a former senior Haitian official who insisted on anonymity. "Nothing can happen until there is a meaningful threat from Washington. So far the culprits here are completely unimpressed."
Reinforcing such impressions has apparently been a reluctance by the Clinton Administration to proceed quickly toward harsher sanctions. Those include an enforced oil embargo against Haiti and a suspension of ordinary air travel to the United States, measures that most observers say are the only ones, short of the unlikely use of military force, that would provide hope of quickly ending the resistance to a democratic settlement.
Although diplomats of Canada, France and Venezuela, all nations that have been highly engaged in the talks involving Haiti, have long urged that a global oil embargo be imposed, the announcement on Friday was the first time that senior United States officials have been publicly willing to even entertain the possibility of global oil sanctions.
 
Punishment of the Poor
 "It's not always the best tactic to use all of your tools all at once at the beginning," one senior Administration official told reporters on Friday when he was asked why an oil embargo was not being applied. "You use them in some kind of measured way to try to keep driving the process forward."
Under Mr. Clinton, as under Mr. Bush, another prominent rationale for the slow ratcheting of pressure has been concern that sanctions not punish the poor, who overwhelmingly support Father Aristide. But 20 months after his ouster, critics say it is clear that the poor rather than rich supporters of the coup have paid the highest price for the defiance by the country's de facto leaders.
If the newly announced sanctions fail to produce quick political changes, observers say the Clinton Administration has been warned that it will itself be faced with high new costs in the form of the embarrassing withdrawal of the United Nations from its leading role in brokering an end to the crisis. The changes include the Haitian Government's acceptance of a proposed settlement that would include a pardon for military officers for their roles in a harsh campaign of repression and of an international police force to help create a climate of security.
"The United Nations entered these negotiations at the behest of the United States, and will carry on as long as we have strong backing from Washington," said one diplomat who has closely followed the negotiations. "They really want to play ball with the Administration, but in the absence of something stronger, they won't want to pretend that they can produce any miracles in Haiti."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (96%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (96%); FRANCE (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ASSETS, FROZEN; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



168 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: MORE PEOPLE VIEW CLINTON AS LIBERAL AS HE SEEKS CENTER

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
As President Clinton struggles to return to the centrist policies that won the election, an increased number of Americans view him as a liberal, and many say his economic plan relies too heavily on raising taxes and would do little to help the economy, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
Most Americans do not appear convinced by Mr. Clinton's repeated efforts to show that his economic remedies will place a heavier burden on rich people than on the middle class. And they have grown increasingly skeptical about the fairness and effectiveness of the plan. 
 The optimism many Americans had early this year that the economy would improve has largely dissipated, with only 13 percent now saying the country is on the rebound. Recent economic data offer only spots of encouragement. Job growth jumped in May, and sales of autos and new homes have climbed, but retail sales have been disappointing. Consumer and business confidence have declined markedly.
 
What Troubles Americans
 Clearly troubled by the President's call for new taxes, by his series of seeming political blunders and by a perception that the economy is in terrible shape, Americans have been more critical of Mr. Clinton than of any President since World War II at equivalent points in office. Mr. Clinton, of course, was elected without a majority of the popular vote in a three-way race.
His rating stands at 38 percent of the public approving how he handles his job, with 47 percent disapproving. Half the people say the President, who campaigned as a populist and vowed to end the status quo in Washington, has lost touch with average Americans.
Mr. Clinton's latest political stumble -- the uproar over his nomination of Lani Guinier to be the Justice Department's civil rights chief and his withdrawal of the nomination on Thursday -- did not appreciably alter his basic standing, the poll found. Of the nearly 7 in 10 Americans who had heard that Mr. Clinton dropped the nomination, 47 percent said he did the right thing and 30 percent said he did not. And 65 percent of that group said Mr. Clinton was wrong to nominate Ms. Guinier in the first place, echoing what the President himself said, while 21 percent said they approved of the nomination.
 
View of Nomination Uproar
 Over all, 32 percent of Americans familiar with the episode said they had a worse opinion of Mr. Clinton because of his handling of it, 11 percent said they thought better of him, and 53 percent said it had no effect on their views.
The telephone poll was taken Tuesday through Thursday with 1,347 adults nationwide. On Friday night, 565 of the respondents were interviewed a second time, after Ms. Guinier's nomination was withdrawn. For results based on all respondents, the poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Seeking to erase the perception that he is turning liberal and failing in the job, Mr. Clinton has in recent days hammered at the theme that his economic program calls for significant spending cuts, and he appointed David R. Gergen, a senior aide in the Reagan White House, as a top adviser. But those moves have not raised the President's popularity, nor did the narrow victory of his economic plan in the House of Representatives 10 days ago.
Though many Americans are clearly troubled by the early days of the Clinton Administration, the good news for Mr. Clinton is that they are still willing to give him a chance. Sixty-nine percent said Mr. Clinton was learning from the problems he has encountered and will do better, the same number who said he had a vision of where he wants to lead the country. And 62 percent said they believed that Mr. Clinton "cares about the needs and problems of people" like themselves, although 74 percent held that impression in January.
 
What Worries Clinton
 Mr. Clinton insisted last week that he was not worried about his low popularity ratings, but he did remark that he was concerned that people had distorted views of him. "The only thing I worry about is if I think people have an inaccurate impression, which I think is certainly the case today, or if it undermines my ability to do things," he told reporters.
One big challenge facing Mr. Clinton is turning around the perception that he has moved to the left since taking office. Roughly half of registered voters said they thought of him as liberal, and 31 percent thought of him as moderate. Throughout the campaign, Americans were evenly divided on whether they saw him as a liberal or a moderate.
Voters are also split on whether Mr. Clinton is a "different" kind of Democrat, which is how he presented himself during the campaign. About half say he is different, while 42 percent say he is a typical Democrat, which many probably associate with high taxes and big spending.
 
Not More Efficient
 Many Americans had expected Government to function better with the White House and Congress controlled by the same party, as Mr. Clinton promised during the campaign an end to gridlock. But only 35 percent said Government was working better, while 45 percent said it was not.
Mr. Clinton may take some solace in that the poll found many Americans are critical of Congress and Ross Perot, who has emerged as one of the President's most stubborn, and certainly most public, detractors.
Just 27 percent of the public approve of the way Congress is handling its job; while 60 percent disapprove. While those favorable ratings are even lower than those for Mr. Clinton, they do not reflect a new trend; the public has for years rated Congress very low.
Half of Americans credited Mr. Clinton with being more serious about reducing the deficit than Republicans in Congress, who have sought to make it their rallying cry. Only 31 percent said the Republicans were more serious on the deficit.
 
Trust in Congress
 But the figures were reversed on the question of who is most capable of making overall decisions about the budget. Half of Americans said they trusted Congress -- Democrats and Republicans -- more in budget decisions, while 30 percent said they trusted Mr. Clinton more.
The survey also found that Americans opinions of Mr. Perot are cooling off once again. Thirty-five percent of registered voters hold a favorable opinion of Ross Perot, while 29 percent have an unfavorable opinion. But as recently as March, Mr. Perot's favorable rating was 42 percent, and in January it was 45 percent. This pattern was evident when Mr. Perot emerged during last year's Presidential campaign; the public seems to rally to Mr. Perot initially, but then some people turn against him as they watch him more closely.
The public perception of Mr. Clinton may stem partly from reactions to his economic proposal. Though Americans are slightly more optimistic about his plan than they were just before it passed the House, 46 percent said it relied too much on taxes increases, while 7 percent said it relied too much on spending cuts. Another 37 percent said the balance between taxes and spending was about right.
 
Growing More Skeptical
 Americans are also more skeptical about Mr. Clinton's economic program than they were when he proposed it three months ago. Thirty-four percent now say the proposal, if adopted, will help the economy. But in February, 53 percent expressed optimism that it would help the economy, with the figure dropping to 45 percent by March.
Despite the slight economic upturn since the House voted on the plan, people are concerned that the economic plan is unfair to them. Forty-one percent of Americans said the economic program is "fair to people like you," but in February, 59 percent perceived such fairness.
Though the notion of higher taxes continues to make people nervous, 59 percent said they were willing to take on that burden for a health-care reform package, even over and above new taxes to reduce the deficit.
But Americans agree with Mr. Clinton's announcement last week that he was putting off unveiling his health-care proposal until his economic plan wends it way through Congress. Forty percent say health-care reform is so important that Congress and the President should act on it this year, while 56 percent say the problem is so complicated that they should take another year to work out the details.
 
Controversy Over Haircut
 Mr. Clinton's highly publicized Hollywood haircut probably contributed to the perception among half of Americans that he has lost touch with average Americans. But those people were divided on who to blame; half said it was "Bill Clinton's fault," and the other half said it reflected "a part of the job that a President can't do anything about."
While the President chided reporters for unfairly zeroing in on his haircut and his other political missteps, 54 percent of Americans said the news media have treated Mr. Clinton fairly; 30 percent said the coverage has been too harsh and 12 percent said it was too soft. And 56 percent said Mr. Clinton's treatment is no different from his predecessors.
But clearly, Mr. Clinton's job rating this early in his tenure is lower than other Presidents. In nearly a half century of polling the only other new President who came close was Gerald R. Ford, whose popularity sunk to 42 percent after four months in office and to 37 percent after five months. Mr. Ford's tumble was precipitated by his pardon of former President Richard M. Nixon for his involvement in the Watergate scandal.
 
 
HOW THE POLL WAS CONDUCTED
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Tuesday through Thursday with 1,347 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen to insure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, race, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups, the potential sampling error is larger. For example, on Friday night many of the respondents were re-interviewed briefly to gather their impressions of President Clinton's withdrawal of the nomination of Lani Guinier to be civil rights chief in the Justice Department. One thousand respondents were called back and 565 were successfully re-interviewed; for this group, the margin of sampling error is plus or minus five percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. For instance, the results of the callbacks made Friday night are subject to additional error because of the limited time available to pursue hard-to-reach people.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Deficit Reduction and Taxes," track opinions on Pres Clinton's economic plan, including fairness, effectiveness and wastefullness of Government, 1978-June, 3, 1993; "The President's Strengths and Liabilities," track people's opinions about President Clinton's vision for leading country, whether he cares, is learning on the job and where Clinton is on political spectrum. (Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll, June 1-3, 1993) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; TAXATION ; CIVIL RIGHTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATISTICS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RETAIL SALES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; PEROT, ROSS; GUINIER, LANI BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



169 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: School Bill Is Viewed Many Ways

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 5

 BODY:
The State Senate gave final approval on Friday to legislation that requires every community in Connecticut to discuss the desegregation of public schools across town lines, but even in the last hours of debate, the expectations of what might result from those talks varied wildly.
Through the distorted glass of race politics, the opponents of the bill expect -- or fear -- the most from it, while many of the legislators who voted for it did so because they expect very little. 
 Republicans denounced what they described as the bill's emphasis on race, the unchecked power over local schools granted to state officials, and the inevitability of forced busing. Democrats, who stripped explicit references to race from the bill as the price for their support, played down the state's ability to make communities do anything more than talk with each other.
 
Incentives, but No Penalties
 "If we reach the point where asking communities to talk is asking too much, I really fear for the future of this state," said Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat from West Hartford, who had introduced the bill in the Senate.
The bill, approved by the House last Friday, sets a one-year timetable for towns and cities to draft plans to improve public schools by reducing barriers to opportunity and enhancing student diversity. It also offers financial incentives for cooperation. But there are no penalties for declining to implement the plans.
However euphemistic and vague the legislation is, everyone knows its origin was Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.'s call this winter for Connecticut to start breaking down the racial and economic divisions between cities and suburbs, before a court orders a desegregation plan. Connecticut is divided into cities made up of poor minority groups and towns that are overwhelmingly white and middle class. A lawsuit in state court is challenging the unequal public schools that result from that division.
How the segregation came to be did not matter, Mr. Weicker said in his State of the State message in January. "What matters," he said, "is that it is here and must be dealt with."
 
Quality of Education Stressed
 To many people, however, it matters a great deal that the state has white schools and black schools because whites and blacks live in different communities, not because of Jim Crow segregation laws. Since the segregation is not the result of discrimination, they argue, race shouldn't be the issue; the quality of education should be.
Because of that widely held belief, Governor Weicker's original legislation to achieve a "significant reduction in racial isolation" was replaced in the Education Committee by a bill that first of all "seeks to improve the quality of school performance."
Of Republicans' efforts to label the bill a desegregation bill, Mr. Sullivan, a co-chairman of the Education Committee, said in an interview, "I do not subscribe to the notion of legal segregation in Connecticut, so I cannot present this as a desegregation issue."
After the Governor's call for action, he said, "The message came back loud and clear from everybody that the underlying issue is opening access, improving opportunity and improving performance."
 
Intent Remains Clear
 The legislation's original intent remains clear in that all of the devices named in the bill for improving the quality of schools require students to cross town lines and are commonly used in desegregation plans, including magnet schools, interdistrict schools, school choice and regional programs.
But towns and cities are required only to take part in regional planning forums. The towns of each region, not the state education commissioner, accept or reject the regional plan. If a town refuses to take part in the plan, there is no penalty.
Many people, therefore, see the legislation as mainly encouraging, on a larger scale, the kind of voluntary cooperation that some cities and towns are already undertaking.
"We have had the wherewithal to do voluntarily any of this," said Rep. William R. Dyson, a Democrat from New Haven and one of many city legislators disappointed with the bill's weakening. "You can see how far we've come -- no place. So now we've legalized voluntary action."
Others who were also disappointed by the weakened bill say the worst outcome, however, would have been for the Legislature to do nothing.
"There was a time when we were concerned that might be the case," said Stephen Tegarden, who as school superintendent in Glastonbury helped establish a magnet school with neighboring East Hartford. "The fact that they have at least passed a piece of legislation that addresses the issue of economic and racial segregation within our state is certainly a positive step."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SCHOOL BUSING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LITIGATION (86%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



170 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins and Council Face Fiscal Maw's 300 Million Sharp Teeth

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
The sky was dark and menacing over Lower Manhattan yesterday, but it was no match for the gloom inside City Hall, where New York's political leaders worked behind closed doors to scale back the size of the municipal government by a hefty $300 million.
Cutting funds for valued services like day-care, summer school and homeless drop-in centers is never appealing to elected officials. But Mayor David N. Dinkins, Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone and the 50 other members of the Council no doubt feel particularly vulnerable doing it now, just months before they will ask voters to re-elect them. 
 New York's elected leaders find themselves in this predicament because of two sets of overlapping problems, one short-term and the other long-term. The Mayor, in a spending plan he proposed last month, counted heavily on $530 million in additional aid from Washington and Albany to help balance his $31 billion budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1.
Mr. Dinkins was forced to acknowledge on Thursday that more than half of the requested aid is unlikely to materialize, and he said he would now have to reduce spending by about $300 million to balance the budget. The Mayor's retreat set off the final round of budget negotiations between Mr. Dinkins and the Council. Both sides hope to complete the talks by late tomorrow or Monday.
 
Faulting the Republicans
 The Mayor and his advisers have sought to place blame on the Republicans in the State Legislature and Congress, implicitly implicating as well his Republican-Liberal mayoral opponent, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
"We fought for it and we have not gotten it, to a great degree because of Republicans," the Mayor said on Friday during an interview on WFAN-AM radio. "They filibustered in the Senate on the President's economic stimulus package. Stopped that cold."
But some Republicans, including Mr. Giuliani, and many independent fiscal experts contend that the Mayor has not made enough decisive changes to the local government to achieve long-range fiscal stability.
In fact, some fiscal experts argue that even if Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Vallone agree on how to trim $300 million, there are enough other uncertainties in the Mayor's proposed budget that it is likely to unravel over the next six months.
 
Further Cuts Predicted
 Allen J. Proctor, the executive director of the State Financial Control Board, which monitors the city's finances, said he had identified as much as $700 million in questionable, one-time revenues in the Mayor's plan, including $215 million from a bank loan backed by delinquent property-tax payments and $55 million from the sale of the financially troubled Off-Track Betting Corporation.
Mr. Proctor said he was convinced that more spending cuts would be necessary during the next fiscal year. "It's not an issue of if, it's only an issue of when and how," he said.
Mr. Proctor, Councilman Charles Millard, a Manhattan Republican, and other critics insist that the city will lurch from crisis to crisis on the budget because, after four years of recession, New York's tax base cannot support all the services the government provides. They fault the Mayor for not making the politically risky decisions that they think the circumstances require.
Mr. Proctor noted, for example, that Mr. Dinkins reduced the size of the city work force by nearly 11,000 people, to 209,902 from 220,505, between June 1991 and June 1992, a shrinkage that won the Mayor praise from fiscal monitors and Wall Street and that helped him to put together a budget a year ago that added a few modest but innovative programs.
But then the Dinkins administration eased up on the effort to shrink the government, adding about 2,600 jobs over the last 12 months. And that is a prime reason the Mayor is struggling now to balance his new budget, Mr. Proctor said.
Mr. Dinkins is now proposing, among other things, to eliminate 4,000 jobs over the next year through attrition; among the proposals floated yesterday by the Council was trimming the Department of Cultural Affairs and making it part of the Parks Department.
 
Promises That Failed
 Several mayoral aides admit privately that they had been counting heavily on President Clinton and a slight economic upturn to help them avoid spending cuts. They also said that Mr. Dinkins had believed firmly that his Democratic allies, Mr. Clinton and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, would loyally help him.
Norman Steisel, the First Deputy Mayor, said that structural reform was not possible unless the city's relationship with the state and Federal governments was also reformulated. He contended that a major reason for the city's plight was that a promise two years ago by the Governor to pick up the city's portion of Medicaid, a $2 billion-a-year burden that few other cities must bear, had not been approved by the Legislature.
Mr. Steisel also argued that it was easy to talk generally about eliminating city services, but much harder to be specific. "Should we stop giving subsidies to cultural institutions, as some have suggested?" he asked. "Should we close the hospitals, or should we not have come up with $100 million to save the subway fare?"
"Hindsight is easy," Mr. Steisel said. "But it is hard to make decisions in a dynamic environment. The question is how do you deal with the plate you have before you at the time."
"It's a safe course in a gloomy environment to be even gloomier," he added. "It's a comfortable position. But the city has demonstrated time and time again that it can overcome the pessimism of the savants."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE FINANCIAL BANK-WATERFORD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); FILIBUSTER (64%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



171 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Whites May Decide Mayor In Multi-Ethnic Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 5

 BODY:
In its final days, the race for mayor of Los Angeles has become a slugging match whose closeness embodies the paradox of this multi-ethnic city where the white electorate has a disproportionately decisive voice.
The next mayor will confront immediate budgetary and public safety problems, and also long-term questions of the city's evolving ethnic identity, yet the campaign has been reduced to an exchange of name-calling, with neither candidate offering much in the way of a broad vision. 
 Most public opinion polls and political analysts agree that the nonpartisan race between City Councilman Michael Woo, a 41-year-old Democrat, and Richard Riordan, a 63-year-old Republican millionaire businessman, is too close to call.
They also agree that turnout will be a decisive factor, with Mr. Woo leading in polls representing all registered voters but Mr. Riordan appearing to have an edge among people who are likely to vote.
 
Riordan's Deep Pockets
 In Los Angeles, this means Mr. Riordan has a solid base among white and Republican voters, many of whom live in the San Fernando Valley. Mr. Woo has greater appeal among minorities and the poor, groups that traditionally vote in lower numbers.
Mr. Riordan's campaign is by far the best-financed: he has poured $6 million of his own money into the race, and potential voters have been inundated by impressively produced mailed appeals.
Perhaps in response, Mr. Woo has mounted the sharpest attacks, keeping Mr. Riordan on the defensive. The Councilman has also won the endorsement of President Clinton and other Democratic officials, though there is some question as to how helpful these endorsements have been.
There has been a brief lull in the final days as Mr. Riordan traveled to New Rochelle, N.Y., to attend his mother's funeral on Friday. But Sunday and Monday nights could be decisive as the candidates face each other in televised debates.
 
'Enormous Revenue Problems'
 Within his first weeks in office, the winner will face painful budget decisions that could color his entire term in office.
"The success or failure of either one is going to be determined rather quickly," said Larry Berg, a political scientist at the University of Southern California. "He is going to be faced with enormous revenue problems and he's going to have to deliver, and deliver quickly. There's not going to be any honeymoon."
The election for the four-year term is a runoff between the two top finishers in an April 20 vote among 24 candidates. It marks a watershed in Los Angeles, which has been transformed into a major metropolis, now sinking under the weight of urban problems, during the 20-year leadership of the retiring Mayor, Tom Bradley.
As it has grown to a population of 3.5 million, with black, Asian and Hispanic residents making up the majority, the city has been struggling to redefine itself. But although roughly two-thirds of the residents are member of minority groups, more than two-thirds of voters are non-Hispanic whites.
Recent data from the Census Bureau and the Registrar of Voters show that whites make up 37 percent of the city's population, but 64 percent of its voters. Hispanic residents are 40 percent of the population but only 11 percent of voters, partly because many are not citizens. Blacks make up 14 percent of residents and 20 percent of voters. Asians are 9 percent of residents and 3 percent of voters. The remaining 2 percent of voters are listed as others.
 
'High-Propensity Voter'
 The profile of Mr. Riordan's supporters is the profile of what political analysts call the "high-propensity voter": older, more moderate or conservative, better educated, well-off, white. Many of Mr. Woo's backers are minorities, poor, younger and less educated.
"It's astounding to think that the voters who are making the decisions for the city will not be the people most needing the services and policies made by the elected leaders," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political scientist at Claremont Graduate School.
To catch the attention of the voters, both candidates have hammered away at the simple themes of public safety and the economy, and at each other.
"I think I have the right to call Mr. Woo a liar," Mr. Riordan said in a recent radio debate during which Mr. Woo called Mr. Riordan "the epitome of unbridled '80s greed."
Both men have promised to increase greatly the size of the police force, Mr. Riordan by selling off Los Angeles International Airport, Mr. Woo by trimming government budgets. Independent analyses have raised doubts as to whether either of these plans would generate the needed revenue.
 
Called for Gates's Resignation
 A cornerstone of Mr. Woo's campaign is that he was the first City Council member to call for the resignation of former Police Chief Daryl F. Gates after the March 1991 beating by police officers of Rodney G. King.
Mr. Riordan offers himself as a can-do businessman whose campaign placards visually imitate those of Ross Perot. He asserts that he has saved thousands of jobs in company restructurings, while Mr. Woo asserts that Mr. Riordan has instead cost thousands of jobs.
The major event of the campaign in its climactic week was the disclosure by Mr. Riordan that he was arrested twice in the 1960's and 1970's for drunk driving and once for interfering with a police officer in an alcohol-related incident.
Mr. Woo has pounded away at the issue, demanding that Mr. Riordan "come clean with the full truth about his criminal record."
Mr. Riordan has responded: "There is no cover-up. I've had three arrests. I've revealed that to the public, and the public now has to make up its mind about Dick Riordan."
A more effective response has been Mr. Riordan's endorsement by the local police union and by the Los Angeles County Sheriff, Sherman Block.
 
Endorsement Game
 Mr. Woo has also reminded voters of a flippant remark by Mr. Riordan in 1988 in which he was quoted as saying, "I'm taking lessons in learning how to wave to poor people."
Mr. Riordan's most effective response has been to enlist the aggressive support of Stan Sanders, a black lawyer who ran in the first round of the election for mayor and who now appears in a television advertisement saying, "Dick Riordan doesn't have a racist bone in his body."
Mr. Riordan has also gained the endorsements of five of Mr. Woo's colleagues on the City Council, while only three have endorsed Mr. Woo. Some of those who back Mr. Riordan have struck some of the lower blows on his behalf, one of them calling Mr. Woo "a snot-nosed kid" who is "not ready to be mayor."
Although the race is officially nonpartisan, it has become one of the most politically partisan here in recent years. High-profile Democrats, including President Clinton, have traveled to Los Angeles to endorse Mr. Woo.
The President's endorsement, however, was lukewarm as he took pains not to criticize Mr. Riordan, who counts a number of strong Clinton supporters on his staff. "I endorsed Mike Woo, not because I have something against his opponent; I don't," Mr. Clinton said as Mr. Woo stood beside him. Polls show that the endorsement appears to have had little effect on voters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a multi-ethnic city, Los Angeles's race for mayor may be decided by white voters. Michael Woo, left, campaigned at Universal Studios. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times); Richard Riordan, a Republican, spoke at a rally last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; RIORDAN, RICHARD; WOO, MICHAEL (COUNCILMAN) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



172 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Germany's Young Turks Say 'Enough' to the Bias

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 5

 BODY:
A 22-year-old Berlin woman who is pursuing a degree in business administration reflects one of Germany's greatest resources and, at the same time, one of its most troubling challenges.
She is bright, articulate and opinionated, and looks forward to a productive career that will be both lucrative and socially responsible. But although she was born and raised in Berlin and has never left her homeland except for vacations, she remains an outsider, viewed suspiciously by many Germans and with outright hostility by some. 
 The woman, Senay Kocadag, is the daughter of Turkish immigrants. Her birth here did not entitle her to German citizenship, as birth in the United States entitles a person to American citizenship. And the application for citizenship that she filed more than a year ago is languishing somewhere in the bureaucracy.
 
'Completely at Home'
 "Of course it's frustrating," Miss Kocadag said as she reflected on the difficulties of living between two worlds. "I'm completely at home here, and when I visit Turkey I feel like a foreigner. But this society doesn't want to recognize me or accept me as German."
Hundreds of thousands of Turkish workers were invited to Germany in the 1960's and 1970's, and their labor helped make this country one of the world's economic titans. The sons and daughters of these migrants are now emerging as a new class, no longer truly Turkish but not fully welcome in the land that they consider home.
There are more than 1.8 million Turks among Germany's 80 million people, making them the country's largest minority. Two-thirds have lived here for at least a decade, and of those, nearly 350,000 have been here for more than 20 years. Their largest and best-established community is in Berlin, where 140,000 live and work.
But German law and custom, which is based largely on principles that date from the late 19th century, make it very hard for Turks or other foreigners to obtain German citizenship. An ethnic German who lives in Russia and has had no contact with Germany for generations is entitled to citizenship almost automatically, as is a child or grandchild of Germans living in Africa or South America. But applicants with no German blood face a host of obstacles, even if they have lived their whole lives here.
 
A Display of Outrage
 For years this anomaly posed no great problem to Turkish workers here, because most never stopped thinking of themselves as Turks. They sent money to relatives at home, returned regularly to visit their native towns, and had little or no interest in becoming part of German society.
But the sons and daughters of these "guest workers" are now coming of age, and the experience of growing up in Germany has made them quite different from their parents.
Their growing assertiveness was illustrated after the firebombing in Solingen last Saturday, which left five Turkish women and girls dead. Groups of young Turks, joined by Germans who support them, rampaged through the streets for several nights, breaking shop windows and smashing parked cars in an unusual display of outrage.
Like many children of Turkish parents here, Miss Kocadag thinks the violent protests were justified.
"When I saw the TV pictures, I thought, 'Thank God, finally people are reacting,' " she said. "This is the only way we are ever going to be noticed or taken seriously. The candlelight processions and petitions haven't produced results.
"Suddenly people are talking seriously about our situation here. That isn't because of the bombing. It's because we're finally saying that we're fed up. If you're positive, you never get anything. Nothing happens in this country without pressure from below."
Although there were periodic outbreaks of violence against foreigners in both East Germany and West Germany, the current wave began after the two nations were unified in 1990. According to police statistics, assaults by rightists led to 17 deaths in 1992.
Many Germans came to believe that tensions would ease if the country's liberal asylum law was tightened, and Parliament responded to their pressure last month by adopting a more restrictive law. But the Solingen attack came less than a week later, making the five Turks who died there the first fatalities of 1993.
 
Parents Are Shocked
 Behind the protests that followed the Solingen firebombing lie a complicated and often contradictory mix of emotions that shape what is called the "second generation" of Turks in Germany. Their parents came here as laborers, and earned a reputation as hard working, quiet and grateful for the chance to live here. They almost never mixed in politics, and many are shocked to see the assertiveness that their children are beginning to show.
"My father is worried because I'm giving interviews and making public statements about what happened in Solingen," said Zehra Cirak, who came to Germany as a 3-year-old in 1963 and has become a prominent German-language poet. "He's afraid something might happen to me, and he would like me to stay quiet. But my generation feels that we have a right to participate in every aspect of German life. We aren't as timid as our parents."
Miss Cirak was able to obtain German citizenship several years ago. The application procedure took nearly two years, and fees totaled about $800, but she was finally successful because she fulfilled the strict criteria set by German law and immigration rules.
Between 1977 and 1990, the last period for which statistics are available, about 13,000 Turks were granted German citizenship. Most had either been born here or come as small children, and had attended German grammar schools. They had to show that they had mastered the German language, had never been in trouble with the police, and had steady jobs and permanent residences.
But even some who fulfill these qualifications are turned down. Immigration officials have considerable leeway, and can reject applicants without giving detailed explanations.
Ozgur Bozkurt, a 20-year-old student who came here at the age of 8, is among the lucky ones who has obtained German citizenship. But his 7-year-old sister, who was born in Berlin, is considered a foreigner.
"I feel that she has been the victim of a racist attack," Mr. Bozkurt said. "She is stamped as an outsider, even though she speaks perfect German and feels completely at home here.
"People of my generation are caught between two cultures. Our parents identify with Turkish culture, but we don't. We're in the middle. We don't feel really Turkish, but Germany doesn't want us."
 
Going Back Loses Its Appeal
 Neither Mr. Bozkurt nor anyone he knows has ever been physically threatened, and although he prefers not to walk alone through certain neighborhoods after dark, he rarely feels uncomfortable or endangered. Worse than the threat of being attacked, he said, is the discrimination he and others who do not look like typical Germans endure at the hands of government officials.
"The police are the worst," he said. "If you go into a police station to ask for something, they automatically assume that you're some kind of criminal. You see the same thing when you go into a housing office or a welfare office. The way they treat you is completely different from the way they treat people they consider to be 'real Germans.' "
Mr. Bozkurt's father came to Germany in 1972 to work as a machinist at a Siemens plant. After a few years he moved to a smaller company, where his fellow workers have elected him their union shop steward.
"Ninety percent of us came here with the idea that we would go back to Turkey after a couple of years," the elder Mr. Bozkurt said. "But we brought our families here, we got used to living in an orderly and disciplined society, and we began to like going out to the theater and concerts and films. We earn good money. Our kids don't feel especially Turkish. The appeal of going back begins to fade. I may go back after I retire, but not before."
Although almost all of the Turks who came here in past decades were laborers, the "second generation" has produced a group of sophisticated intellectuals who are pressing Germany to change its policies toward residents who have foreign backgrounds. Several are now campaigning for a new law that would allow Turks to be granted dual citizenship without the obstacles that now exist.
"Our generation identifies very strongly with Germany, and we want to make this a more multicultural society," said Zafer Senocak, an essayist and social critic. "We are systematically excluded from every aspect of German political life. For the last 10 years, politicians have been talking about the 'foreigner problem,' and that has created the climate we are living through today.
"I don't hold the kids responsible, even the ones who set fire to houses. The Government in Bonn is responsible. Even now, we aren't seeing any real change in attitude. We are systematically discriminated against, and the kids are starting to react aggressively."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The largest community of Turks in Germany is in Berlin, where 140,000 live and work, although many do not have German citizenship. A mother and child walked by a Turkish fast-food restaurant in Berlin. (Archie Kent for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; TURKEY GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; CITIZENSHIP; LAW AND LEGISLATION CITIZENSHIP (92%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); NATURALIZATION (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); RACE & RACISM (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; KOCADAG, SENAY

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



173 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: DENTAL COVERAGE URGED BY EXPERTS

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
As the nation ponders what to do for 37 million Americans who lack medical insurance, many health experts say it is also time to extend basic dental benefits to the 150 million Americans who lack such coverage.
That would be a break with tradition. The last time the country passed sweeping health programs, in the mid-1960's, dentistry was all but ignored. Medicare, the program for the elderly, provides no dental care while Medicaid, for the poor, offers only spotty and shrinking coverage. 
 But experts have warned that failure to provide preventive care exacts larger future costs as Americans, especially the poor, the elderly and immigrants, needlessly suffer tooth decay, gum disease and loss of teeth. "Dentistry is part of comprehensive care," said Dr. Edward G. Kaufman, dean of the New York University College of Dentistry.
This time, President Clinton's advisers are listening, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, head of the President's Task Force on Health Care Reform, said on May 25 that she hoped to include some dental benefits in the core package of health benefits the Administration will propose for all Americans. Mrs. Clinton's group wants to cover all dental needs of children and partial care for adults. The President has not made a final decision.
 
Many Political Snares
 But as usual in the health field, what may sound simple and sensible is complicated and full of political snares for the White House as the final plan is prepared.
Even as they criticize the lack of coverage for poor people, practicing dentists say they would rather not be part of any national health plan, in part because they fear the Government controls and managed care to which doctors may be subjected.
And while including basic dental benefits in the health plan would help the poor, it could also leave many middle-class people with less coverage than they have now.
"If, as a result of health reform, employees lose dental coverage they have now, or have to pay a lot more, they'll be unhappy," said Frank B. McArdle of Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm.
In recent years many companies have begun to offer dental benefits. Today about 95 million people, or 40 percent of the population, have private dental insurance of varying generosity, according to the Public Health Service.
 
Much Neglect Is Reported
 Still, most Americans must pay dental costs out of pocket. Although many poor people can get free medical care for the slightest illness, they often find it almost impossible to get a cavity filled. Some elderly people, especially in nursing homes, have inadequate care too, surveys show. Even some uninsured middle-class people put off routine dental visits because of the cost.
Public-health groups, dental colleges and some specialty groups, joined in a Coalition for Oral Health, have urged Mr. Clinton and Congress to include basic dental care in a standard health insurance package. Prevention and treatment of common dental disease for both children and adults would cost about $7.1 billion a year, the coalition estimates.
But the American Dental Association, which represents private dentists, has argued against wrapping dentistry into the health package. While it supports Government aid to poor people, it wants dentistry outside the medical plan, perhaps using vouchers that allow people to use private dentists.
"We don't think you should go out and disrupt something that's working very well for most people," said Dr. John S. Zapp, executive director of the association.
 
Prevention Pays Off
 The Clinton health-care group especially wants to insure that children are covered, said Linda A. Bergthold, a leader of the working group on benefits. "If we really cover children well now, then in the future we won't have the kind of dental problems we see in adults," said Ms. Bergthold, an officer of William M. Mercer Inc., a benefits consulting firm.
To the extent adults were not covered by the Federal plan, she added, they would be free to get extra coverage from their employers or to buy it themselves. But then another issue arises: Will dental benefits beyond those in the official plan remain tax deductible, as they are now? Or would they be taxed, as Mr. Clinton may propose for extra medical benefits, meaning many workers would pay more to keep existing coverage?
No matter how care is extended, dental professionals make a powerful case that in this field, even more starkly than in medicine generally, prevention saves money and pain.
A transformation of dental care has created huge disparities in oral health between generations and economic classes. More than one-third of the elderly have no teeth. People now in middle-age are less likely to lose their teeth, but grew up with many cavities and require extensive repair work.
But today with proper maintenance including professional cleaning, fluoridation and use of plastic sealants on biting surfaces, many children grow up without any cavities at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HEW (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN DENTAL ASSN AON HEWITT (84%); AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DENTAL ASSN AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: TEETH AND DENTISTRY; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICAID; MEDICARE DENTISTRY (91%); DENTAL INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (89%); AGING (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); ORAL HEALTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CAVITIES (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (78%); TOOTH DISORDERS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); PERIODONTAL DISEASES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MEDICAID (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



174 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: As Thousands Cheer Him On, Perot Presses Familiar Themes

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WALL TOWNSHIP, N.J., June 5

 BODY:
Taking aim at some of his favorite targets and repeating familiar themes from his Presidential campaign, Ross Perot touched down at a small airport here today to exhort thousands of his enthusiastic supporters to stay active in politics.
The rally, organized by the New Jersey branch of Mr. Perot's grass-roots voter group, United We Stand America, was billed as a get-out-the-vote rally in anticipation of the gubernatorial and legislative primary elections in New Jersey on Tuesday. But judging from the rousing reception that Mr. Perot received when he appeared on the stage in the cavernous hangar at Allaire Airport here, about 40 miles south of New York City near the Jersey Shore, it seemed more like a get-out-and-see-Ross rally. 
 Between 2,500 and 3,000 supporters, some wearing buttons proclaiming "Perot in '96," filled the seats to hear Mr. Perot rail against lobbyists and government bureaucrats, criticize the budget deficit and vilify American companies that move operations to other countries. He also used his appearance as an opportunity to attack some of the policies and initiatives favored by the Clinton Administration, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement and the President's proposal for the establishment of a trust fund to reduce the deficit.
 
Continuing Popularity
 "How many of you have heard of the deficit trust fund?" Mr. Perot asked his audience. "Is there anyone in this giant hangar who thinks it will work?"
"No!" the crowd thundered back.
It is a measure of Mr. Perot's continuing popularity here -- he won 16 percent of the New Jersey vote in the November presidential election -- that his rally not only attracted dozens of people who described themselves as independents running in legislative primaries on Tuesday, but also the three leading candidates for the Republican nomination for governor.
The contenders, Jim Wallwork, Christine Todd Whitman and Cary Edwards, all worked the crowd at the back of the hangar before Mr. Perot's arrival. Some of them tried to align themselves with the aphorisms and ideas that Mr. Perot embraces about government reform.
"Ross Perot says you have to get under the hood and fix the engine," Mr. Edwards, a former state attorney general, said as he pumped hands in the hangar. "I can lift the hood and I can fix the engine because I know how it works."
 
Not Backing Candidates
 C. J. Barthelenghi, executive director of United We Stand America in New Jersey, said her group had asked Mr. Perot to speak to help motivate members to vote in the primary, even though neither Mr. Perot nor United We Stand is backing any particular candidates.
"Our goal is to get people into the primary process," she said. "A lot of decisions get made at the primary level. We are trying to draw awareness to that."
In fact, some members of the organization became so motivated as a result of their volunteer work for Mr. Perot last year that they decided to run in this year's State Assembly and Senate races. Mrs. Barthelenghi said that those in leadership positions in United We Stand who chose to run were asked to step down from their posts in the organization, although they could remain members of the group.
Today, dozens of those candidates, running as independents or for the Democratic or Republican nominations in various legislative districts, came to the rally seeking support. Each was given one minute to speak, and waited, like supermarket shoppers on a long checkout line, for their moment at the podium. Among them, the common themes seemed to be the need to reduce spending and to make government more responsive to citizens.
 
'I Don't Want a Job'
 One such candidate was Adrian K. Stevens, who served as Monmouth County campaign manager for Mr. Perot last year and is now seeking the Republican nomination for an Assembly seat. "I don't want a job. I don't want a contract. I want responsible government," said Mr. Stevens, who added that it was Mr. Perot who inspired him to run.
At the podium, Mr. Perot was jocular, relaxed and at times hard to follow as he leapt from one topic to another during an address that lasted for more than an hour. At one point, he announced, without providing any source for his assertion, that one of four Americans now wanted to be members of United We Stand. At another point, he said Mr. Clinton's economic program would add another $1 trillion to the nation's deficit.
In an apparent allusion to recent reports of dissension within the ranks of his organization, Mr. Perot said he relished the attacks because they only increased interest in the group. "Every time they hit us, the membership just zooms up," he said, as the audience roared its approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY ; UNITED WE STAND; DEMOCRATIC PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY ; UNITED WE STAND; DEMOCRATIC PARTY NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WALL TOWNSHIP (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MARKS, PETER BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



175 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Blast Fading, but Tremors Remain

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR

 BODY:
The spacious elevators, stuffed with executives and camera-toting tourists, are once again gliding like zippers up and down the towers of the World Trade Center. New windows have replaced shattered ones. Fresh paint covers smoke-stained walls.
Except for a few posters referring to "repairs" and a phalanx of guards checking new identification cards, there are few signs that just three months ago, a huge explosion ripped through the trade center's underground garage, killing six people and sending tens of thousands scrambling down smoke-filled stairwells to safety. 
 But while most workers in the complex have returned to their desks, interviews with dozens of men and women make it clear that impact of the Feb. 26 explosion lingers on.
Some people talk of emotional scars that have not yet healed. A man smells burning rubber and dissolves in tears. A woman feels pangs of anxiety each time she passes the office water cooler that she used to wet towels to hold over her mouth during the evacuation. And now, tucked inside countless employees' bags and briefcases are newly acquired flashlights, cellular telephones or smoke masks. Just in case.
 
An Aching Vulnerability
 "My flashlight fits right in my purse," said Joanne Mannarino, an accounting clerk who says she still has sinus problems from the smoke she inhaled while groping down 50 flights of stairs. "I will not go down in the elevator without it. Not now."
Others describe unexpected bonds forged between colleagues and even among strangers who helped each other hobble down the dark stairwells or scratched their collective way out of stalled elevators.
After the blast, hundreds of people sought treatment for injuries or attended counseling sessions provided by their employers or the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns and operates the trade center. Others sought help through city services or private doctors.
And while only a few patients remain in treatment, counselors said, laborers and top executives alike say that for almost everyone, fallout from the attack still lingers.
Kathleen A. Carney, a 32-year-old office worker at Dai Ichi Kangyo Bank, has flashbacks to the panic she felt just moments after the blast when she rushed down a smoky stairwell to a door that was always open and found it locked.
 
Long Echoes of Panic
 Patricia S. Barbanti, 44, a legal secretary, spent 10 days edging her way back into the building -- moving a few steps closer each day until, accompanied by a counselor, she crept through the door. Now she regularly checks the back entrance to the trade center for signs of danger. She says that since the mob scene on the stairwells that day, she has become claustrophobic and had to give up a planned airplane trip this spring to visit her ailing father-in-law.
And Eugene J. Fasullo, director of engineering with the Port Authority, who pried open the doors of a smoke-filled elevator and clawed his way through the wall of the elevator shaft, said he feels rushes of anger toward the bombers -- an emotion that didn't surface until weeks after the blast.
"Looking around, you'd never know a bomb went off here," said Charles J. Maikish, director of the World Trade Department for the Port Authority. "But you can feel the aftereffects."
Mr. Maikish says loud noises still make him jump. And during meetings about budgets and business plans, he said, he finds his mind drifting to matters of repairs and safety that have to do with the bombing. "I have to make myself focus," he said.
 
'The Incident'
 Yet others find themselves shaking their heads at how quickly things have returned -- or appear to have returned -- to normal.
"It is amazing to me," said Oscar E. Correa, a 33-year-old transportation planner who was working for the Port Authority at the time of the blast and who walked through the lobby on a recent afternoon. "The bombing is referred to now as 'the incident.' It's as if it never happened. It's very strange."
At the time of the explosion, dozens of workers vowed never to return to the Twin Towers. But so far few have actually quit or asked for transfers, according to individual company spokesmen and their employees.
Renee Amgar, a Trans World Airways ticket agent who was forced to crawl along the lobby floor to safety, says that her concerns about returning to work in Tower One lasted only a few days. "After that," she said, smiling over the lobby's ticket counter, "routine takes over."
Experts who specialize in post-traumatic stress syndrome, a disorder for which symptoms can take weeks or months to emerge, say such routines either help people recover or become tools to suppress anxieties, depending on the personality.
"Most are doing better," said Dr. Leslie Baliff, supervising psychologist at Beth Israel Medical Center, who is still treating several people as a result of the blast. "But those who are doing worse fit into two categories -- those who were up close to more traumatic aspects of the blast, who lost co-workers or supervisors or who saw the building coming down, and those who had some anxieties or fears to begin with. For people who would ride anxiously in the elevators before, obviously it is more anxiety-provoking now."
 
Disturbing Dreams
 Sara Kahn, a social worker from an industrial psychology consulting firm, who is still counseling some trade center workers, said some employees still talk about nightmares (one woman dreamed her son's wedding was on top of Tower One and she had to walk up thousands of steps with the guests). Others have flashbacks to family deaths, the campus disturbances of the 1960's or other traumatic events.
One woman, said Ms. Kahn, flashed to a time of revolution in South America, where she was born, when she was forced to hide in a basement for weeks. "She said that it was a horrendous event to be in the middle of a revolution," Ms. Kahn said. "But she said that wasn't nearly as stressful as the World Trade Center event. She said that when you live in Latin America, part of the landscape is an occasional revolution. She didn't expect to be sitting at her computer and experience a terrorist bomb attack."
Dr. Baliff, Ms. Kahn and others say that some workers have struggled with the relatively quick reopening of the trade center and the resumption of business as usual.
"Employees have said they felt a pressure to perform as if nothing happened, and that adds an additional stress," said Ms. Kahn. "Especially for employees who are in power positions, like executives or lawyers, the imperative is that they look invincible and invulnerable. It's very difficult to maintain that facade when inside you are the victim of a tragedy like everyone else."
Whatever the lingering impact on employees, the trade center and its tenants have largely rebounded. Although some experts had predicted that companies would drop their leases because of the bombing, Mr. Maikish, who oversees the complex, said that occupancy is up, from 88 percent before the blast to 92 percent, and 70 to 80 percent of companies who had to decide whether to renew their leases since the bombing are staying -- no more or less than usual.
Louis Cavalera, a vice president for marketing with Gray Line New York Tours, said that the tide of 5,000 to 7,000 yearly visitors to the trade center's observatory, which reopened April 17, has not ebbed. The attack is not mentioned during Gray Line's daylong tour of Manhattan, he said. "It's like someone died," he quipped. "Why keep talking about it?"
 
Help, Help and More Help
 He and others point to efforts by the Port Authority and others to deal with the psychological, physical and economic impact of the blast.
The city's Department of Mental Health, in conjunction with the Greater New York Red Cross, maintained a 24-hour telephone line for more than a month, with six counselors who answered questions and made referrals to clinics and doctors who offered pro bono services to blast survivors.
The Port Authority offered free flashlights, gas masks and counseling to all workers in the buildings. Its special recovery program gave tenant businesses $150 per employee and paid all moving expenses to temporary office space. Last month, the authority underwrote a weeklong sale for local retailers, called the "Spring Back Celebration" and has paid for newspaper and magazine advertisements for those companies as well. All paid, it was a $15 million goodwill effort.
Inside their offices, executives have tried to focus on the positive, and they and employees point to unexpected side effects of the blast. In one sense, they say a kind of bunker camaraderie has developed, a bond that has helped quiet sniping around the water coolers.
In some companies, middle managers, forced to make high-level decisions on the spot, performed so well that several top executives say they are re-evaluating some decision-making procedures. Office heroes have been given bonuses, all-expense paid vacations and the unbounded gratitude of colleagues -- or strangers -- whom they helped to safety.
Mr. Fasullo speaks with deep respect of the eight men and women trapped for hours in Elevator Car 70 with him. They used a nail file, key and money clip to pry open the doors of the dark, smoky elevator, then scratch their way through the wall of elevator shaft into a bathroom on the 58th floor. Lights from their beepers illuminated their work.
"We expanded who we were," he says. "We were nine of us in this elevator and let me tell you it was scary as hell. But no one panicked. No one said anything inappropriate. Some people sat down and were quiet. But everyone was supportive."
Like several other high-level employees, Mr. Fasullo said that at the time, he was too busy with work to seek professional counseling. In fact, it was not until weeks after the bombing that he watched the first news of the event. That night, he recalled, he and his wife sat and cried.
 
'I Feel Anger'
 "I never talked to a counselor, though at this point in time, it probably would have been smart," he said, his voice still scratchy from the smoke inhalation. "But I'm kind of a street kid from Brooklyn, and we never dealt with life that way. Everything we met, we had to cope with. And at this point in time, I feel perfectly fine. I feel anger at the bombing itself. But I feel fine."
What has changed, he said, is his gratitude for having survived.
"What's different is that saying 'it's a pleasure to be here' really means something to me now. I delegate more to my staff. Things that I used to try to handle myself because I thought they were so important, now I realize are not so important. And with my children, when I say that I love them, it's no longer words."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Few visible signs of the explosion at the World Trade Center remain, but the impact is lingering on. New identification cards and lines of people waiting for visitors' passes are part of the new security. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM; LABOR BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); WOMEN (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); 

PERSON: TABOR, MARY B W

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



176 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: A Packager's View of Recycling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We commend the article "Who Foots the Bill for Recycling?" (April 25). As long-time packaging consultants, however, we see somewhat different problems and note that all the interviewees are members of the waste management and environmental faction, rather than of the packaging community. 
 Newspapers, magazines, telephone books and fourth-class mail constitute the major proportion of household and business waste, but these items appear to be exempt from the environmentalists' allegations. Paper can be and has been truly recycled for more than a century, but the current situation is appalling. So much scrap paper is collected that the market price has collapsed.
Packaging is indispensable to the delivery of goods to consumers, plastic has reduced its mass significantly, and when there are true (not government-imposed) economic incentives for recycling, it will occur. Some of our brethren suggest that the environmentalists be isolated without packaged goods so that they might experience the spoilage, filth and illness of the 19th century to which they seem to want to revert. The mass of scrap and their significantly shortened lives might cause them to alter their opinions.
 
AARON L. BRODY, Ph.D.
Eagan, Minn., May 21
 
The author is managing director of Rubbright/Brody Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (88%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (73%); 

PERSON: BRODY, AARON L (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



177 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Currency: The Real Problem Abroad

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was startled to read "What Hasn't Worked Abroad . . ." (Viewpoints, May 2), in which it was claimed that high taxes and social programs were responsible for European budget deficits running 5.4 percent to our 4.3 percent of gross domestic product. 
 Startled because I was about to mail to my Swedish relatives a chart from the Jan. 23 Economist covering budget balances as a percentage of G.D.P. for 19 countries for 1989 and the forecasts for 1993. Seven countries were in surplus in 1989, and of all of them Sweden -- that high-tax country with extensive social programs and 2 percent unemployment -- led with a surplus of 5.6 percent of G.D.P.
In 1989, the United States deficit was less than 2 percent and yes, at 4.3 percent it is getting worse and we should be doing something about it. But the most dramatic fall from grace is Sweden. In 1993, it is projected to have a deficit of around 12 percent. How did that happen? It wasn't high taxes or social spending.
In the autumn of 1991, during Sweden's elections, both the Conservatives and the Social Democrats indicated a desire to join the European Community, which meant aligning currencies with the European monetary unit, i.e. the German mark. But the costs of German unification and Bonn's failure to raise taxes led the Bundesbank to raise interest rates to control inflation. That pushed up the mark. The straw that broke the camel's back was when Finland, devastated by its loss of trade with Russia and Eastern Europe, was forced to devalue. The next weak link was Sweden.
Now, world money markets have been deregulated and computerized, with daily round-the-clock electronic transactions totaling $1 trillion or so. So when the currency speculators homed in on Sweden, it had to capitulate. It devalued.
The European countries are all in recession and all in debt and none more so than Sweden. Who got the money? Not the recipients of social programs, although they will be asked to pay for it. The international currency speculators had a good day.
 
HELEN MYERS
Claremont, Calif., May 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (94%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (94%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BONN, GERMANY (50%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVALUATION (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INFLATION (76%); GERMAN MARK (70%); DEREGULATION (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, HELEN

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



178 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 54; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS

 BODY:

 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	46	JURASSIC PARK, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A biotechnician clones dinosaurs for use in a theme park.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	THE MAGIC OF YOU, by Johanna Lindsey. (Avon, $5.99.) A 19th-century British minx sets her cap for an American sea captain.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	DARKEST HOUR, by V. C. Andrews. (Pocket, $5.99.) The concluding volume in a series about the Cutlers, a plantation-owning family.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	16	THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $6.99.) A law student probes the murder of two Supreme Court justices.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	71	THE FIRM, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) A young lawyer learns that his firm is engaged in secret, possibly illegal activities.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	SHADOWFIRES, by Dean Koontz. (Berkley, $6.99.) A woman is stalked by her supposedly deceased husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	60	A TIME TO KILL, by John Grisham. (Island/ Dell, $5.99.) Racial tensions surface during the trial of a man charged with murder.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	6	WAITING TO EXHALE, by Terry McMillan. (Pocket, $5.99.) The friendships and romances of four black women in Phoenix.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	2	THE CAT WHO WASN'T THERE, by Lilian Jackson Braun. (Jove, $4.99.) Jim Qwilleran contends with crimes in Scotland.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	1	SHADOWS, by John Saul. (Bantam, $5.99.) An evil influence brings horrors to a school for gifted children.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	4	FATHERLAND, by Robert Harris. (Harper Paperbacks, $6.50.) A thriller set in the Third Reich 20 years after Hitler wins World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	7	"I" IS FOR INNOCENT, by Sue Grafton. (Fawcett, $5.99.) Kinsey Millhone investigates a man once charged with murdering his rich wife.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	23	RISING SUN, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) The investigation of a woman's death involves the American-Japanese rivalry.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	6	JEWELS, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $6.99.) The life of a woman who becomes rich by dealing in precious stones.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	7	THE WITCHING HOUR, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $6.99.) A woman descended from witches brings a drowned man back to life.		 	 	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 1	6	THE SILENT PASSAGE, by Gail Sheehy. (Pocket, $5.50.) The psychological and social significance of menopause for today's women.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	TRUMAN, by David McCullough. (Touchstone/ S&S, $15.) A biography of the 33d President.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	5	NOT FOR SALE AT ANY PRICE, by Ross Perot. (Hyperion, $5.95.) The Texas billionaire on America's economic and political problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	500	THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone/S&S, $10.95.) Inspiration.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	86	A YEAR IN PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) A sojourn in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	16	I KNOW WHY THE CAGED BIRD SINGS, by Maya Angelou. (Bantam, $4.99.) The poet's account of her childhood and adolescence.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	107	YOU JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.) The different languages men and women speak.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	13	THE GOVERNMENT RACKET, by Martin L. Gross. (Bantam, $7.99.) Examples of waste, with suggestions for curbing it.		 	 	 	 	 	 9 *	4	WHERE THE BLUEBIRD SINGS TO THE LEMONADE SPRINGS, by Wallace Stegner. (Penguin, $11.) Essays on the American West.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	17	TOUJOURS PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) A celebration of rustic France.		 	 	 	 	 	 11 *	13	ROGUE WARRIOR, by Richard Marcinko with John Weisman. (Pocket, $5.99.) The memoirs of the former head of a counterterrorist unit.		 	 	 	 	 	 12 *	21	REVOLUTION FROM WITHIN, by Gloria Steinem. (Little, Brown, $11.95.) The reflections of a leading feminist on self-esteem.		 	 	 	 	 	 13 *	16	WOMEN ON TOP, by Nancy Friday. (Pocket, $5.99.) The changes in social life that have affected the sexual fantasies of women.		 	 	 	 	 	 14 *	31	BACKLASH, by Susan Faludi. (Anchor/ Doubleday, $12.50.) A journalist describes a war against women's rights.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	20	EARTH IN THE BALANCE, by Al Gore. (Plume, $13.) The Vice President discusses factors affecting the environment.		 	 	 	 	 	 16 *	131	LOVE, MEDICINE, AND MIRACLES, by Bernie S. Siegel. (Harper Perennial, $12.) The importance of a patient's mind and emotions.		 	 	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	9	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK: Volume 2, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) More tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.		 	 	 	 	 	 2 *	95	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) A collection of some 500 tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	120	THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE, by Stephen R. Covey. (Fireside/S&S, $9.95.) Principles to practice in the pursuit of success.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	137	THE T-FACTOR FAT GRAM COUNTER, by Jamie Pope-Cordle and Martin Katahn. (Norton, $2.99.) How to reduce fat in one's diet.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending May 22, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 38,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WOMEN (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); GIFTED EDUCATION (68%); WORLD WAR II (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1993



179 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: A Victorian Jewel That's Also a Mine for Musical Theater

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
WHEN the announcement was made to preserve rather than demolish the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam in 1959, Gov. Abraham A. Ribicoff declared: "This to me is very important for the country's soul."
A whirl of musicales, soirees and benefits of all sorts, even plaster ripping parties, followed for the purpose of raising the $500,000 required to restore the many splendored showplace, then being used by the State Highway Department as a storage depot. And for the four years it took to complete, the restoration of the four-story Opry House -- a frequent spelling at the time it was built in 1876 -- on the banks of the Connecticut River was the talk of eastern Connecticut. Sightseers paid 50 cents for a tour of the work in progress on Saturdays between 2 and 4 P.M. By varying accounts, about twice the amount needed for the restoration came in, and the reopening of Goodspeed, a victory for esthetics and for civilization, took place on June 18, 1963. And the show that marked its rebirth in Victorian splendor was "Oh Lady! Lady!" by Jerome Kern. 
 But it took Michael P. Price to transform a community arts and summer stock center, with a grab bag repertory, to a musical theater with a mission, and to place the Goodspeed Opera House in a singular spot on the national musical theater map.
Now Goodspeed is celebrating its 30th anniversary as a prototype of grand architectural preservation, and Mr. Price his 25th as executive director. And as it becomes increasingly commonplace to complain about the decline of traditional American musical theater, evidenced by the meager assortment of best musical nominations for the Tony Awards, being broadcast on television tonight, the Goodspeed Opera House is flourishing. And Mr. Price is not complaining.
For the 398-seat theater with a structure that has inspired writers to metaphors of wedding cakes, dollhouses and jewelboxes -- gemlike may be the most recurring adjective -- has made an indelible name for preserving musicals, too. That was acknowledged by a special Tony Award in 1980 for Goodspeed's "contribution to musical theater in general and its contribution to the Broadway theater." By then, 10 musicals -- most famously, "Annie" -- had traveled from East Haddam to New York; the number is now 14.
Three musicals -- usually two in revival, one in emergence -- are produced in a season that has been expanded from 8 to 36 weeks since Mr. Price took over.
And Goodspeed's stature -- which prompted Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. to say that the theater rivals any in the United States -- has, as well, come to encompass the development of musicals. Its tryout theater, five miles away and 10 years old next year, carries the unwieldy name Goodspeed-at-Chester/The Norma Terris Theater. (The theater was named in honor of the musical comedy star and local philanthropist who died in Old Lyme in 1989.)
A continuation of "Annie," then called "Annie 2" and now scheduled for an August opening Off Broadway under the title "Annie Warbucks," had one of many ever-changing tryouts at the 200-seat Chester Theater, a renovated factory whose opening show, "Harrigan 'n Hart" moved to Broadway.
The auxiliary theater has been significant to lyricists like Sheldon Harnick, who had Goodspeed Productions of two of his musicals, "Fiorello" and "She Loves Me," and who said: "Goodspeed has been important to our country's musical theater's past -- and with its second stage in Chester, it is just as important to its future."
In a sense, Mr. Price is accountable for Goodspeed's second rebirth, just five years after its first. After putting on little operas, Gilbert and Sullivan, vaudeville and musicals of convenience like "The Fantasticks," Goodspeed, under Albert Selden's managing direction, was once more imperiled, after five years.
When Mr. Selden departed, Mr. Price -- hired for the first season as general manager, then discharged because of artistic differences -- was brought back, this time, and so it still seems, for keeps.
 
Maybe 'Gentlemen Prefer Blondes'?
 "The musical is alive and well here -- and it sends greetings from East Haddam -- and will continue to do that," said Mr. Price, estimating that Goodspeed receives 175 new musical scripts a year and reeling off oldies on his wish list for revivals: "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and "Mack and Mabel."
"We haven't had a decline," Mr. Price added, conceding that the theater plays at 95 percent capacity -- the figure has been up to 97 percent -- "But it's nothing worrisome."
While the Goodspeed repertory remains conservative, the theater's younger audiences are reflecting a change in ticket-buying patterns. "People buy tickets on shorter notice instead of weeks in advance," Mr. Price said. "It used to be thought that you could never get a ticket but now we're selling out day by day," he said, referring to the non-subscription seats that account for 50 percent of the theater's capacity.
For all the attention lavished upon the Goodspeed moves to Broadway -- "Shenandoah" and "Very Good Eddie" were two of the more successful ones in the 1970's -- Mr. Price remains adamant about the theater's priority: To remain a repository of vintage musicals for local audiences, even though it was one of the notions of his predecessor to use the theater as a spawning ground for New York, especially after the success of "Man of La Mancha," which had a Goodspeed premiere during Mr. Selden's tenure in 1965.
More important, particularly for the economic survival of musical theaters countrywide, are Goodspeed's shared or co-productions, Mr. Price said. Productions of "Bells Are Ringing" from East Haddam and "Abyssinia" from Chester, for example, went on to other theaters in Michigan, in Washington, D.C., and elsewhere. "In Connecticut, we're like an industry that exports," Mr. Price said.
After the current production of "On the Town," the Goodspeed anniversary season is to consist of "Heartbeats," a new musical that had a preliminary run in Chester last season and is returning to East Haddam after a run at the Cleveland Playhouse. It is to be followed by a new production of "Promises, Promises" -- a 1960's musical that represents a rare foray into what, for a Goodspeed revival once linked with the 20's and 30's, might well seem like post-modernism. In Chester, "Das Barbecu," a country Western spoof of Wagner's Ring cycle, is to run through June 27.
Asserting his position, above all, as an aficionado of musicals, Mr. Price said, "We're more diversified than we were at the beginning. And I can't wait to see 'Promises, Promises.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the plays that have been presented over 30 seasons at the Goodspeed Opera House are "Little Johnny Jones," top, "Going Up," center, and "Annie" (Photographs by Wilson H. Brownell) (pg. 1); Michael P. Price, executive director of the Goodspeed. (Diane Sobolewski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODSPEED OPERA HOUSE (EAST HADDAM, CONN) CONNECTICUT RIVER BANCORP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODSPEED OPERA HOUSE (EAST HADDAM, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MUSICAL THEATER (92%); THEATER (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); WRITERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN; PRICE, MICHAEL P

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993



180 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
SURPRISE CHOICE IN GUATEMALA
In a surprise move, Guatemala's crusading human rights ombudsman, Ramiro de Leon Carpio, is sworn in as President. Politicians had considered him ineligible as unacceptable to the military. A1
 
RUSSIA OPPOSES KIEV PLAN
Bluntly expressing Russian differences over policy toward Kiev, Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev rebuffed an American plan to place Ukraine's nuclear warheads under international control. A1 

JAPAN LOBBIES AGAINST U.S.
Japanese officials have swept through Asia in recent weeks, rallying opposition to the Clinton Administration's use of trade quotas. A1
 
PAMPERING A PRINCESS
In Japan, whose press does not step out of line with the imperial family, Masako Owada's image has been transformed from that of a tough trade negotiator to that of a picture-perfect princess. A2
 
U.N. CONDEMNS SOMALIA ATTACK
The United Nations Security Council condemned the killing of 22 Pakistani peacekeepers in Somalia and called for prosecution of those responsible. U.N. workers blamed a powerful faction leader. A3
 
KENYA BOLSTERS ITS ECONOMY
After winning the first multiparty elections in Kenya in 26 years, President Daniel arap Moi is battling to turn around its severe economic problems and to win the support of Western aid organizations. A6
 
SPANISH PARTY RETAINS POWER
After facing its toughest challenge since coming to power in 1982, the Socialist Party was returned to office in elections in Spain, but it lost considerable ground to the conservative People's Party. A8
 
The voting system is frustrating as Bolivia elects a president. A8
 
Local elections in Italy offer clues to the nation's political future. A8
 
SERB ATTACKS CONTINUE IN BOSNIA
Bosnian Serb forces kept up their offensive on the United Nations safe area of Gorazde and shelled another safe area, Srebrenica, defying a new Security Council resolution to provide the areas with protection. A7
 
Royal family feuding is preventing unity in Cambodia. A3
 
German Chancellor accused of inaction after racial attacks. A10
 
Rebels reportedly kill 300 refugees in Liberia. A6
 
Israel holds four in slaying that led to expulsions. A11
 
National A12-15, A18, B8
 
ANTI-TAX VOTES BOOST HUTCHISON
Political Memo: Voters disgruntled by the President's tax package helped Kay Bailey Hutchison rout Bob Krueger in Texas, and she in turn will hurt the Clinton plan's chances in the Senate. A1
 
WOMAN WINNING A MAN'S GAME
Woman in the News: Kay Bailey Hutchison has always excelled in a man's world, as a political reporter and then as the first woman in the Texas Legislature. A15
 
SOUTH'S REPUBLICANS MOVE RIGHT
The Christian right has been pushing to win offices and influence in the South, with big presences at Republican conventions in Virginia and South Carolina. A12
 
MAUVE CLASHES IN SUBDIVISION
A couple living in a Seattle suburb had a court order brought against them, with threats of imprisonment or fines, all because they ignored the area's rules on house paint. A12
 
RECALLING A COMPASSIONATE MAN
Twenty-five years after Robert Kennedy's death, many in America still think of him as the archetype of the charismatic leader. A14
 
SENATOR IS PRESSED ON VOTE
Senator John Breaux of Louisiana, one of two swing votes on the budget bill in the Senate Finance Committee, is being pressured by his constituents to vote against an oil tax. A14
 
TOBACCO TAX FOR SMOKERS' GOOD
President Clinton is considering a hefty tax on cigarettes, trying to cash in on the public's outrage over smoking's risk to smokers and non-smokers alike. A18
 
MOTIONS SLOW FRAUD TRIAL
Reporter's Notebook: The fraud and bribery trial of Robert Altman has been bogged down by claims from the defense. B8
 
A leading Senator says new tax rates should not be retroactive. A13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
7 DIE AS STEAMER RUNS AGROUND
A tramp steamer smuggling hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants into New York ran aground in a pounding surf off the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens early yesterday, ending a 17,000-mile odyssey from the Far East in a nightmare of panic, chaos, death and capture within sight of the golden door. A1
 
A SURGE OF CHINESE IMMIGRANTS
The freighter that ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula in Queens yesterday was part of a recent surge of illegal Chinese immigrants who have made their way east to Hawaii, California, Guatemala, Florida and now, for what is believed to be the first time by boat, to the shores of New York. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports C1-8
 
Baseball: Rangers hold off the Yankees. C1
Mets fall to Astros. C7
Bloody brawl in Baltimore. C7
Fielder powers Tigers. C7
Smoltz cools off Dodgers. C7
Basketball: Barkley relishes prime-time role. C5
Bulls now feel liberated. C5
Boxing: Marketing is first in the ring. C4
Column: Berkow on Jordan.C5
Golf: Dramatic shot boosts Azinger. C1
A surprise victory for Wynn. C4
Hockey: Canadiens: the Lords of Overtime. C4
Horse Racing: A painful day after at Belmont. C3
Tennis: Bruguera topples Courier. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Tony Awards. C11
A devoted collector of Haitian art. C13
Music: "The Return of Ulysses" in Brooklyn. C11
Grateful Dead and Sting. C11
Daniel Lanois at Town Hall. C12
Dance: "Dancers and Friends 2." C12
Books: "The Fifties." C13
Television: "Fame in the 20th Century." C11
 
Obituaries D8
 
James Bridges, film maker.
W. McNeil Lowry, arts patron.
Leo Pfeffer, lawyer.
Philip E. Hoffman, lawyer.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Don't sacrifice the needy workers.
The fund-raising frenzy, cont'd.
David C. Unger: Bonn and Bosnia.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Bill Clinton's center.
William Safire: Cheer up, Europe.
Joseph R. Biden Jr.: More U.N. appeasement on Bosnia.
Andrew Stephen: Doctors, spaghetti and my American wife.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Bridge C16
 
Crossword C13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (95%); GUATEMALA (94%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); KENYA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); CONSERVATIVE PEOPLE'S PARTY (54%); CONSERVATIVE PEOPLE'S PARTY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); CONSERVATIVE PEOPLE'S PARTY (54%); CONSERVATIVE PEOPLE'S PARTY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (95%); GUATEMALA (94%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (92%); KENYA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); WOMEN (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); FAMILY (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RACE & RACISM (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (57%); 

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



181 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
Clinton Coattails Debated After Senate Loss in Texas

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
Has President Clinton become such a political pariah that he drove hordes of Texans to the polls on Saturday to vote for a Republican, Kay Bailey Hutchison, to the United States Senate?
Probably not. The Democratic incumbent, Senator Bob Krueger, had problems of his own, like being such a dreadful campaigner that his campaign produced television commercials extolling that fact. Besides, analysts warn against making too much of whether any President has "coattails" that significantly affect a local election for better or for worse. 
 But Mr. Clinton's plunging popularity certainly did not help matters, as Mrs. Hutchison's campaign was waged as much against Mr. Clinton as against Mr. Krueger. At every turn, Mrs. Hutchinson, who is the Texas State Treasurer, attacked the President's proposal for tax increases.
 
Unexpected Margin
 To the Republicans who call the election a referendum on Mr. Clinton, the Democrats' response is hardly reassuring to the President: How could it be a referendum, they ask, when even Mr. Krueger stayed clear of Mr. Clinton and derided his proposed energy tax?
While it is debatable how much Mrs. Hutchison owes to Mr. Clinton, it is clear that the outcome is another big embarrassment for the President at a time when nothing seems to be going right for him. Mrs. Hutchison's victory was the first that gives Republicans both Texas Senate seats since Reconstruction.
Though she entered the race as the heavy favorite, the degree of Mrs. Hutchison's rout was unexpected: she drew 1,183,766 votes, or 67.3 percent, to Senator Krueger's 574,089 votes, or 32.7 percent.
Armed with those percentages, Republicans today wasted no time in seizing on Mrs. Hutchison's victory as a public repudiation of Mr. Clinton's economic program, and White House officials lamented the loss of what could have been a critical Democratic vote for the President's economic package. Mrs Hutchison, who will take office in the next few days, has vowed to fight the plan.
Bob Dole, the Senate Republican leader, was so delighted that he called up reporters after the votes were tallied Saturday night to tell them that the outcome will "send shock waves" through the Senate. "Texas voters," he said triumphantly, "may have saved the economy by getting Clinton to back off on his tax package."
Democrats close to Mr. Clinton were hard pressed to explain Mr. Krueger's defeat -- except to insist that Mr. Clinton had nothing to do with it. Robert Slagle, the Texas Democratic chairman, was one of the few in his party to publicly suggest that the President bears some responsibility: "It was a lot like trying to swim with a battleship anchor strapped on your back."
After a protracted search during which everyone seemed to turn down the job, Gov. Ann W. Richards picked Mr. Krueger to replace Senator Lloyd Bentsen after he was appointed Treasury Secretary. Little did she know that the woman who will serve the remaining 18 months of what was Mr. Bentsen's term will now devote herself to opposing the economic package that he helped create.
"I am going to make sure that I sign on for everything I can do to kill the taxes in the Clinton economic program," Mrs. Hutchison told reporters today in Dallas. "That will be my first order of business."
Short of not pulling Mr. Bentsen out of the Senate in the first place, Mr. Clinton's advisers said there was little they could have done to keep the seat Democratic. They said Mr. Clinton had not played any direct role in urging Governor Richards to pick Mr. Krueger, and that there was a paucity of formidable candidates.
Although Paul Begala, an adviser to Mr. Clinton, traveled to Texas to help the beleaguered Krueger campaign, neither he nor anyone at the White House made an all-out effort to help. White House officials said they viewed Mr. Krueger as a loser early on. And, from the start, they said Mr. Clinton's influence was limited because he was never wildly popular in Texas. In last year's elections, President George Bush won his adopted home state with 40 percent, followed by Mr. Clinton with 37 percent and Ross Perot with 22 percent.
"I don't know if anything short of divine intervention could have made a difference," said James Carville, a close political adviser to Mr. Clinton.
 
Luke Warm White House
 It would have been even more damaging had Mr. Krueger wanted the President to stump for him in the state, according to a poll published by The Dallas Morning News in May. The survey of 888 voters who had said they planned to cast ballots found that only 7 percent said they would be more likely to vote for Mr. Krueger had Mr. Clinton campaigned there; 28 percent said less likely. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Knowing the outlook was glum for Mr. Krueger, Mr. Clinton offered a half-hearted endorsement of the Texan several weeks ago. Then, he quickly sought to put as much distance from Mr. Krueger as Mr. Krueger kept from him. "I've always been skeptical about the question of whether any of us can have any impact on anyone else's races," Mr. Clinton said.
Yet it was only two years ago that Democrats were gloating that the upset victory of Senator Harris Wofford, a Pennsylvania Democrat, over former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh was evidence of a public outcry against President Bush. Mr. Wofford seized on domestic issues like health care and relentlessly attacked Mr. Bush as out of touch, issues that Mr. Clinton used successfully in last year's election.
 
Admitting a Bad Campaign
 Mr. Carville, who orchestrated the Wofford campaign, disputed the idea that there were similarities between the two races, insisting that the notion of a President influencing a local election was overblown. Referring to Mr. Wofford's race, he said, "I don't think I ever said it was a referendum on Bush."
While he disagreed that the Texas results could be a "wake up call" to Mr. Clinton to change his policies, Mr. Carville could not offer an overriding reason for the outcome, except that Mr. Krueger was a lousy campaigner. "There's no way I could see the President embarrassed by this," he said. "But he's probably disappointed."
Mr. Bentsen also sought to steer any blame from the Administration for losing his old seat. "As he himself admitted," Mr. Bentsen, interviewed on the CBS News program "Face the Nation," said of Mr. Krueger, "he's a poor politician, and that showed up in this particular race. That's the bottom line."
After all, Mr. Krueger, a former Congressman and Texas railroad commissioner, now has the distinction of being the only politician in Texas to lose a campaign for the Senate in three different decades.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kay Bailey Hutchison after winning the runoff election in Texas for Senator. Woman in the News, page A15. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Senator Bob Krueger with his wife, Kathleen, after his concession speech in the special runoff election in Texas. (Associated Press) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS UNITED STATES (98%); TEXAS, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES ; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ENERGY AND POWER POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUTCHINSON, KAY BAILEY; KRUEGER, BOB (SEN); BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



182 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: In Startling Shift, Guatemala Makes Rights Aide President

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GUATEMALA, June 6

 BODY:
In a turn that astonished many Guatemalans even after days of political turmoil, the Government's crusading human rights ombudsman, a frequent critic of the military, was sworn in as President early today.
Less than two weeks ago, the former ombudsman, Ramiro de Leon Carpio, was sneaking out the back of his home to escape a squad of military policemen who arrived as Jorge Serrano Elias, then the President, seized nearly dictatorial powers.
 
In a Delicate Position
 The armed forces overthrew Mr. Serrano on Tuesday with support from business leaders, politicians and others, including Mr. de Leon Carpio. But when the Attorney General of Human Rights, as he was formerly titled, first emerged as a candidate to finish the remaining half of Mr. Serrano's five-year term, politicians said they discounted him as unacceptable to the army high command. 
 The eventual triumph of Mr. de Leon Carpio, 51, seemed to mirror the situation of Guatemala's civilians in their long struggle with the political weight of the armed forces, which ruled the country almost continuously from 1954, when the elected Government was overthrown by a Washington-backed military coup, until 1986. It was hopeful and resonantly symbolic, but also incomplete and perhaps unstable.
"His position is extremely difficult and delicate," said Tracy Ulltveit-Moe, a researcher who has long monitored Guatemala for the human rights organization Amnesty International. "You can't be very sure whether, first, he's going to be able to stay in office. But there's also the difficulty of responding to all of the hopes that this has raised."
As late as Saturday afternoon, business and political leaders said they were confident of having obtained the votes in Congress to elect a more moderate candidate, Arturo Herbruger Asturias, the 81-year-old head of the federal electoral court.
But with Mr. de Leon Carpio's name ringing from the galleries of the somber stone chamber built by one of Guatemala's many military dictators, legislators gave him a narrow majority on their first secret ballot. He was still more than a dozen votes short of the required two-thirds vote in the 116-seat legislature. But as congressional leaders recessed to negotiate, Mr. Herbruger telephoned to withdraw.
Before the Legislature voted again on Mr. de Leon Carpio, two representatives said, the telephone rang on the podium where the President of Congress sat. They said it was a senior military official, calling to say the army would accept its former antagonist as its new Commander in Chief. The Congress president, Jose Lobo Dubon, said he did not take such a call, but had received the same message from the Defense Minister earlier in the day.
Pulling on the blue-and-white presidential sash, Mr. de Leon Carpio insisted in his inaugural speech to Congress that "the feeling of living in democracy is rooted in the Guatemalan people."
But the events of the last two weeks have called such beliefs sharply into question, and the hard choices that Mr. de Leon Carpio will face began to present themselves immediately.
As he arrived at the neo-classical Congress building nearly an hour past midnight, his audience was no more contained than the crowd at a wrestling match. Students and union members shook the chamber with demands for the dismissal of corrupt officials of Congress, the courts and the former Serrano Government.
"Depuracion!" the crowd chanted again and again, using the Spanish word for purification or purge. "Resign! Resign! Resign!"
They shouted as well for the prosecution of military leaders who supported Mr. Serrano's seizure of power and then ousted him, then backed an attempted takeover by his Vice President, Gustavo Espina Salguero, only to force Mr. Espina to resign.
In his inaugural, Mr. de Leon Carpio mentioned neither the military nor the proposed laws that would give amnesty to various groups of the officials under public fire. And as he emerged from the legislative chamber, buoyed on a mass of supporters and police guards, he quickly backed away from the demands for prosecution that he had supported in days past.
"After a crisis like the one we have just come through, we cannot have revenge," he said.
Mr. de Leon Carpio's speech drew only one strong ovation, when he vowed to do away with the tens of millions of dollars in confidential discretionary funds budgeted to the presidency, money that Mr. Serrano and his predecessor, Vinicio Cerezo Arevalo, were widely accused of having plundered for their own gain.
Several analysts predicted that Mr. de Leon Carpio's political strength in Guatemala would depend partly on his success in bringing the country a more democratic reputation abroad. Although civilian leaders declared a final victory over the military when Mr. Espina was forced to resign and Mr. de Leon Carpio was chosen, the last two weeks also laid bare the military's continuing political power.
Mr. de Leon Carpio's remarks seemed to reflect the same analysis. He called on foreign governments to renew and increase the aid to Guatemala that they suspended after Mr. Serrano -- who was elected to a five-year term in January 1991 -- dissolved Congress and the Supreme Court on May 25. Mr. de Leon Carpio also asked that the countries lift their threats of economic sanction.
United States officials responded almost immediately. "We welcome a legal and peaceful constitutional resolution of this crisis, and we're looking forward to working with this Government," the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, Bernard W. Aronson, told reporters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GUATEMALA GUATEMALA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ARMED FORCES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COUPS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; DE LEON, RAMIRO RAMIRO DE LEON CARPIO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



183 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Rallying Asian Nations Against New U.S. Trade Policies

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 6

 BODY:
In Japan's most direct attack yet on the Clinton Administration, Japanese officials have swept through Asia in recent weeks to rally opposition against America's new trade policies, arguing that while Japan may be Washington's target now, other Asian nations will be next.
The intense diplomatic effort, coming before next month's summit meeting here of leaders of the seven richest industrial nations, underscores a fundamental and widening philosophical split between Washington and its Asian trading partners. 
 At its core is the Administration's insistence on numerical targets for gaining market share and other quotas that would assure American products' access to Japanese markets. This adds up to what the Japanese and others call managed trade, as opposed to free trade.
To the chagrin of many American officials in the Pacific, the debate in recent months has permitted Japan to take the moral high ground, allowing it to portray itself as, of all things, a free trader and the United States as a meddler in the world's trading system.
 
Asia Backing Japan
 While many in Europe are reluctant to join with the Japanese, one by one countries throughout Asia -- from Indonesia to Malaysia to Australia -- have been denouncing the Clinton Administration's approach as a dangerous strategy that ultimately will undermine market economies by mandating who buys how much, and from whom.
"The Japanese are calling in their chips," an American trade official based in Southeast Asia said. "They are going to countries where they have invested billions of dollars in recent years, far more than we have invested, and essentially have said, 'If they make this work against us, sooner or later they will get you, too.' "
Japanese officials deny they are orchestrating a campaign against the Clinton Administration's strategy. Instead, they say that the denunciations from Asia are rising from spontaneous outrage.
"Our neighboring countries are telling us that if Japan concedes and allows the United States to set numerical targets, then they know that will be the fate of the rest of East Asia tomorrow," said Noboru Hatakeyama, the Vice Minister of International Trade and Industry and Japan's top trade negotiator. "We, of course, agree with them."
Mr. Hatakeyama insisted in an interview that "we are determined never to accept" a "results-oriented approach that leads us to managed trade." Mr. Hatakeyama is heading to the United States for a critical set of negotiations in which the Clinton Administration plans to lay out a broad new framework for trade talks with Japan.
Japanese leaders have been increasingly, and openly, contemptuous of the Administration's approach. Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, during a taped television interview earlier this week, attributed American trade policies to the new Administration's inexperience, saying that "they've just come to the Government, so they probably don't understand very well."
Mr. Miyazawa later persuaded the network, TV Asahi, to delete the remark before broadcasting the interview, saying he feared it could be interpreted in Washington as "rude." Newspaper reporters who watched the taping reported it anyway.
A taste of the differences spilled over in Paris last week at the meeting of the 24-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown openly sparred with their Japanese counterparts, contending that the American determination to measure the openness of the Japanese market by clear numerical indicators -- not just market share, but the number of new contracts signed, or "design-ins" of American parts in new Japanese products -- was specifically aimed at solving America's peculiar and seemingly intractable problem of reducing its trade deficit with Japan.
 
Denies Managing Trade
 "We're working hard to try to open up these markets," Mr. Bentsen said. "In no way is that managed trade." At the conclusion of the meeting, the United States headed off a Japanese effort to include a passage in the meeting's final statement in opposition to managed trade.
Mr. Brown in particular has pointed recently to the irony that Japan -- a country that has managed, measured and controlled its imports and exports with more skill than any other nation in recent decades -- should suddenly portray itself as what Mr. Hatakeyama calls "the flag-bearer for free trade."
Mr. Brown has repeatedly accused Tokyo of "disingenuousness," telling The International Herald Tribune that "those words have very little credibility coming from the Japanese."
Even the Japanese now readily concede that they were once masters of the art. But they describe themselves as something akin to reformed sinners, who have now dedicated themselves to warning the world of the hazards of following the same path.
"There is no hiding that in the 1960's and through the mid-1970's we did have managed trade," Mr. Hatakeyama said. "But what I have to tell Mr. Brown is please don't mix past history with current phenomenon."
 
Japan's Argument
 Japan also argues that it has never sought what the Clinton Administration now seeks: a virtual guarantee that a foreign country will set aside a specific share of its market for Japanese goods.
Indeed, it has not. But Japanese officials concede that they have undercut their position over the years by agreeing to forms of managed trade -- restrictions on the export of Japanese cars, machine tools and steel, for example. And the model for the Clinton Administration's strategy is the 20 percent target agreed on in the late 1980's for America's penetration of the Japanese semiconductor market. Japanese officials now say that their agreeing to such a target was a big mistake, because it set a precedent that the Administration is now trying to enlarge.
The campaign against the Clinton Administration's strategy began overtly in April, when Mr. Miyazawa traveled to Australia where he emerged with a fairly strongly worded statement in favor of free trade from Prime Minister Paul Keating, who heads one of the few countries in the Pacific that actually sells more to Japan than it buys. (But what it sells, many critics point out, are raw materials, minerals and food, not manufactured products.)
Later Japan's Minister of International Trade and Industry, Yoshiro Mori, took a swing through Southeast Asia that yielded even more strongly worded critiques of America, particularly from Indonesia, which this year heads the Non-Aligned Movement, a group of 108 smaller nations that first banded together in the cold war as third world countries.
 
Criticism From Malaysia
 Perhaps the loudest critic outside of Japan is the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad."Mr. Miyazawa says that it is not acceptable for countries to have to tell their companies how much of what they should buy," Dr. Mahathir said in a speech in Tokyo last month. "Yet managed trade has advanced. And there are now respectable Western scholars who even advocate it as a legitimate model for the conduct of future world trade. There are politicians who openly advocate it without blushing with shame."
Dr. Mahathir, a nationalist who has called for an East Asian trading group to counter the North American Free Trade Agreement and other regional blocs, is no doubt speaking from the heart. He has never made a secret of his distaste for what he terms Washington's proclivity to view "the North Atlantic community as the center of the world," and Asia "as the periphery."
Like many Asian leaders, he finds his interest and Japan's are closely tied. Japan is easily the largest investor in his country; it has provided the technology to build a national car, now being exported, and turned Malaysia into the world's largest producer of room air-conditioners.
So in Malaysia, as in many neighboring countries, Japan can make the argument that any effort to limit Japan's exports would eventually limit those of countries manufacturing products for Japanese companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); ASIA (99%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; EUROPE; ASIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); ASIA (99%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); MARKET SHARE (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



184 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: The Immigrants -- 7 Die as Crowded Immigrant Ship Grounds Off Queens;
One Failed Voyage Illustrates Flow of Chinese Immigration

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH

 BODY:
The freighter that ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula in Queens yesterday was part of a recent surge of illegal Chinese immigrants who have made their way to Hawaii, California, Guatemala, Florida and now, for what is believed to be the first time by boat, to the shores of New York.
Why the immigrants chose a tortuous route that took them around the Horn of Africa and north again into the cold waters of the North Atlantic is not clear, but officials said that a highly organized network of smugglers around the world probably provided assistance in stops along the way. 
 The increase in the number of boats with Chinese intercepted in American waters in recent months has coincided with a sudden, sharp increase in the number of Chinese who turn up at immigration offices to seek asylum, officials said yesterday.
"The number of Chinese that have applied for asylum has grown astronomically in the last few months," said Gregg A. Beyer, director of asylum at Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "These are people who are already in the United States," he said. "We don't know how or when they got here, if they got in legally or if they were smuggled in."
At the immigration service's Newark office, which handles cases for New York, New Jersey and New England, 2,853 Chinese applied for political asylum in April and May, more than the total number of Chinese applicants in all of 1992, Mr. Beyer said. In October, he said, 186 Chinese applied for asylum in Newark; in May the number was 1,560.
Since August 1991, boatloads of Chinese immigrants have made their way to the United States, most of them in search of economic opportunities that do not exist at home, officials said. Twenty-four boats have been intercepted by the American authorities, who have sharply increased their efforts to monitor the vessels.
Last year, American officials traced the journey of a ship carrying 151 Chinese from China to Mauritius in the Indian Ocean and then to Cape Town, from where she sailed across the South Atlantic to Brazil and, finally, to Haiti, where the passengers came ashore before dawn on a Sunday.
The boat that reached Queens yesterday, the Golden Venture, was the first carrying smuggled Chinese immigrants to be intercepted in the New York area.
"What we are witnessing is the continuation of a deplorable trend," said William S. Slattery, the director of the New York office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
If the immigrants who came ashore in Queens follow a pattern that has become common, they will seek asylum in the United States by claiming that they face persecution in their homeland because of China's population-control policies, which generally restrict couples to only one child, immigration officials said.
But if the immigrants had succeeded in sneaking into the country, as they apparently planned to do, they might have chosen another increasingly common tactic for winning a legal place in the United States -- a false claim that they had been here since the 1989 uprising in Tiananmen Square, the officials said. Government policy allows those people to remain in the country.
Like the group yesterday, a large number of Chinese immigrants come from the Fujian Province, a coastal region opposite Taiwan.
Immigration and police officials said the immigrants typically agree to pay smugglers tens of thousands of dollars for the trip and end up in a system of indentured servitude operated by Chinese gangs. Law-enforcement officials said many illegal Chinese aliens worked off their debts in Chinese restaurants in New York and New Jersey.
Two weeks ago, 57 illegal Chinese immigrants were found in a warehouse in Jersey City, where they were being held by smugglers as they waited for relatives to come up with the $25,000 to $30,000 per person demanded for their release. Some told the police they had entered the United States on foot from Mexico; others said they entered by airplane, and some said they came by ship, but were unable or unwilling to say where the ship had dropped them off.
 
Effect of a Crackdown
 Immigration officials said yesterday that most Chinese immigrants eventually make their way to the New York area, because of the large and long-established Chinese population in the area and because New York is the base of strong Chinese gangs that control the smuggling operations.
But the officials could not explain why the group yesterday was entering the country on the East rather than the West Coast, which would have spared them thousands of miles of travel.
A crackdown by immigration officials in the West may have prompted a switch to East Coast ports, said Theodore Ruthizer, the president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. After several shiploads of refugees arrived on the West Coast in 1991 and 1992, immigration officials there began detaining passengers for long periods instead of releasing them to await hearings, Mr. Ruthizer said, and smuggling traffic has fallen off.
For those on the Golden Venture, the odyssey to a home in the United States stands a good chance of success, in part because Chinese refugees's applications for political asylum are treated more favorably than others, immigration lawyers say.
About 80 percent of Chinese refugees who formally apply for asylum are granted it, compared to about 35 percent overall, according to Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York City.
Immigration lawyers attribute that favorable treatment to the Government's inclination -- particularly strong since China's government crushed a pro-democracy movement in 1989 -- to give credence to claims of political persecution in China.
And under a 1989 order by President Bush, immigration agents must give special consideration to those who claim to be fleeing China's harsh population control policies, which sometimes lead to compulsory sterilization and abortion.
Government officials and immigration lawyers said that many Chinese refugees are well versed in what they must say to gain asylum. "We get 18-year-olds who've never been married who tell us they want to have two kids and that's why they're here," said Ralph Thomas, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.
But the immigrants' odyssey may continue for months or even years. Officials said yesterday that there was a backlog of 18 months or longer for processing asylum claims.
The people who were aboard the ship are to be processed over the next few days at an I.N.S. center on Varick Street in Manhattan, then transferred to detention centers.
On orders from the White House, the immigration service will keep the Rockaway Beach group in detention centers outside of New York City -- in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Texas -- as their cases make their way through the system, Mr. Thomas said.
"When we have large groups arriving, we feel we have to make a response, otherwise we're inviting others to try this same thing," he said.
Typically, asylum seekers are freed pending the outcome of their cases. Many then disappear. In the last six months, Mr. Thomas said, 30 percent of the aliens claiming to be seeking asylum in the New York area failed to appear for their court dates.
The crew of the Golden Venture could face Federal charges of alien smuggling and conspiracy, with a maximum penalty of five years in prison for each undocumented alien aboard the ship. Prosecutors said they had not yet decided whether any crew member would be charged.
In the New York metropolitan area, the I.N.S. handles more than 20,000 asylum applications a year -- and thousands more cases of people who say they intend to seek asylum, but disappear without formally applying -- but it has room to hold only 100 people until their applications are approved or denied.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants waiting in a temporary detention hall wore masks to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; ROCKAWAY PENINSULA (NYC); NEW YORK CITY ; FUJIAN PROVINCE (CHINA); SHANGHAI (CHINA); UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); HAITI (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FREIGHTERS; GOLDEN VENTURE (SHIP); SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ; SMUGGLING IMMIGRATION (96%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D ; TOBING, AMIR H LUBMAN

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



185 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Energy Tax Puts Senator In Tough Spot

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 6

 BODY:
Senator John B. Breaux once joked that his vote could not be bought but that "it can be rented."
That was during the Reagan era, when the Louisiana Democrat was a lowly backbench Congressman unabashedly seeking sugar subsidies for his farm constituents. 
 Now Mr. Breaux is one of two swing votes on the Senate Finance Committee who can make or break President Clinton's economic plan, which includes an energy tax widely unpopular in this state heavily dependent on the energy industry.
The stakes are higher now, and pressure is coming down on Mr. Breaux from all sides. And as he tries to find wriggle room by striking a compromise with the White House, his humor is turning as black as the oil his constituents do not want taxed.
 
Return to Louisiana
 During the Memorial Day recess, Mr. Breaux crisscrossed the bayous and marshes of southern Louisiana's oil patch to meet with constituent groups about the economy and health care. Wherever he went, he was handed stacks of petitions demanding that he oppose the President's proposal for a $72 billion tax on the energy content of fuels, as measured by British thermal units, or B.T.U.'s.
The state's newspapers and airwaves are saturated with advertising calling on Mr. Breaux not only to vote against that tax but also to drop his compromise proposal for a gasoline tax, which would fall more heavily on consumers than on producers.
The advertising campaign is led by Citizens for a Sound Economy, a group financed by oil interests and lobbies against economic regulation.
At a dinner with oilmen on Wednesday night in Houma, Mr. Breaux was introduced by an engineer wearing a button decrying the B.T.U. tax. "We have many concerns with the direction of the new Administration," the master of ceremonies said pointedly.
Beginning his speech, Mr. Breaux said, "I see the buttons," then compared himself to an Indian seen in the cross hairs of a cowboy's rifle.
At a lunch on Thursday in Westlake, he requested that the gathered businessmen refrain from throwing food at him. And at a party inaugurating his new Baton Rouge office that evening, he peered out his window, pointed toward Huey Long's flood-lighted tomb and told guests, "After this vote, I'm going to have one right next to it."
Because all nine Republicans on the Finance Committee are expected to oppose Mr. Clinton's budget plan, the Administration needs all 11 Democrats. Two of the 11, Mr. Breaux and Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma, have pledged to vote nay as long as the B.T.U. tax remains intact.
 
Break With Boren
 Mr. Breaux, however, broke with Mr. Boren by quietly lobbying the Louisiana Congressional delegation to provide the votes that nailed down Mr. Clinton's narrow victory in the House last month. He promised the lawmakers he would see to it that the B.T.U. tax was stricken in the Finance panel.
"I was trying to be helpful," he said in an interview. "If we lost in the House, we'd lose the chance for deficit reduction this year."
Mr. Clinton expressed gratitude to Mr. Breaux, but the Senator's offices have been deluged with telephone calls calling on him to stand tough against the President.
Like many moderate and conservative Democratic lawmakers, Mr. Breaux finds himself in the uncomfortable position of either backing the President and paying a heavy political price at home, or deserting him and doing severe damage to Mr. Clinton's Presidency and the Democratic Party.
Mr. Breaux defines the dilemma this way: "Bill Clinton ran as a new Democrat, and he has to give us a new Democratic Administration. If he doesn't succeed, the people won't trust the party. And if we get something passed that doesn't work, we'll get blamed -- and rightfully so."
The President's B.T.U. proposal would cost Louisiana $1.2 billion a year, say the oil lobbying groups pushing their case in the local news media.
But Mr. Breaux must also calibrate personal stakes that may conflict with his state's. As chief deputy whip of the Senate Democrats and as chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council, he is trying to carve out a place as a national party figure. Breaking with the President now would damage that effort even if he won points at home.
 
Seeking Middle Course
 "I want to be a statesman," the Senator said, "but I don't want to be a crazy statesman." So he is trying to navigate a middle course, publicly declaring his opposition to the B.T.U. proposal while he negotiates with the Administration to pare it. He is proposing as an alternative an 8-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax and $30 billion in further spending cuts, a proposal that Administration officials say could cost vital votes from the party's liberal wing.
The gasoline tax, Mr. Breaux argues, would spread the pain of an energy levy more evenly around the country, and he is telling his constituents that they should prefer to pay a few cents more at the pump than lose their jobs.
In his public addresses, Mr. Breaux tries to embrace the President's economic policies, even as he attacks the energy tax that provides a linchpin for those policies.
At the dinner in Houma, he criticized the B.T.U. tax as "more complicated than the Egyptian hieroglyphics to interpret." But he went on to praise other provisions of the Administration's economic plan, like the investment tax credit for small businesses and the earned-income tax credit for families that earn less than $28,000 a year.
His talk made some oilmen uncomfortable. "I would have liked to hear him say he was against the B.T.U. tax one more time," said Robert Bordes, a purchasing agent for Marathon Oil. Referring to one of the representatives whom Mr. Breaux had lobbied to vote in favor of the President's program, Mr. Bordes added: "Billy Tauzin used to be very popular. Now he wouldn't win a race for dogcatcher."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Like many moderate and conservative Democratic lawmakers, Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana finds himself in the position of either backing the President and paying a heavy political price at home or deserting him and doing damage to President Clinton and the Democratic Party. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (54%); CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (54%); CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ENERGY AND POWER; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FUEL TAX (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); GASOLINE (74%); PETITIONS (73%); SUGAR FARMING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BREAUX, JOHN B (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



186 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Japanese officials have campaigned through Asia in recent weeks to rally opposition against new U.S. trade policies, arguing that while Tokyo may be Washington's target now, other nations in the region would follow. The campaign is Japan's most strenuous attack on the Clinton Administration. [Page A1.]
Regulators from 13 countries signed an agreement to toughen and unify regulation of stock exchanges in the Americas. [D1.] 
 There seems to be too much currency circulating in Mexico. The country is operating with two systems of overlapping currency. Today, in addition to the 11 bills and 13 coins in circulation, a new 20-peso coin will be introduced. [D2.]
Italians swung away from mainstream political leaders in the wake of their extensive bribery scandal, with voters endorsing insurgent groups demanding change. [A8.] Voters in Spain returned the longtime Socialist Prime Minister to office, but this time without a majority in Parliament. [A8.]
 
The Economy
The sharp jump in new jobs in May has brought the day closer when the Fed will have to raise short-term interest rates, traders and analysts say. [Page D1.]
The Government requires military contractors to diversify their work forces and their managements. Yet the image of the weapons industry as a group led by white, high-technology ex-military men is as vivid now as it has been for decades. [D1.]
Senator Moynihan said that under a measure he was contemplating, the wealthy would face only half the '93 tax increases proposed by the President. [A13.]
 
Companies
Kaleida Labs, Motorola and Scientific-Atlanta agreed to develop jointly the software and hardware for delivering interactive and multimedia services through cable TV networks. [D1.]
More than 25,000 electronic-gadget lovers sampled the newest consumer electronics wares at the industry's 48th semi-annual show in Chicago. The show comes amid some industry growth, but concern over the yen's rise against the dollar. [D1.]
A California court overturned an arbitrator's award that gave Advanced Micro Devices the right to make a version of an Intel chip. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
Sears has named Young & Rubicam's New York office to create advertising campaigns that could prove crucial to the retailer's fate. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Roger Black may be a leading art director, and he may be involved in redesigns of high-profile magazines, but he still sounds suspiciously like a person who cares more about words. [D6.]
The Mexican Government is auctioning off the makings of a media empire that could rival Televisa. [D6.]
Variety will suspend weekly publication this summer and instead publish every two weeks. [D6.]
The founder of States News Service thought he was close to making a hot deal with CNN. But then Ted Turner poured cold water on his idea. William Glaberson: Press Notes. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
EMC's stock price has surged, but insider sales suggest that it may be near its peak for a while. Market Place. [D4.]
An orthopedic surgeon in New Jersey has patented a procedure to alleviate repetitive stress injuries without cutting ligaments in the wrist and palm. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (52%); AMD (FRA) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); COINS & COINAGE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); TAX LAW (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); RETAILERS (62%); COMPUTER CHIPS (61%); SCANDALS (54%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



187 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Christian Right Splits G.O.P. in South

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RICHMOND, June 5

 BODY:
The Christian right is on the political move again in the South, pushing hard to win offices and influence in the Republican Party at a time when many of the party's national leaders are urging that it become more moderate and centrist.
Here in Richmond this weekend, Christian conservatives dominated the convention that nominated candidates to represent the party in this fall's elections for governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general. 
 And in South Carolina a few weeks ago, Christian conservatives captured control of the executive committee of the Republican Party, including the chairmanship.
In both Virginia and South Carolina, Christian conservatives have also recently won control of some county Republican organizations, mostly by packing local caucuses with political novices who have been energized by an evangelical fervor to restrict abortion, limit homosexual rights, defeat gun-control measures and control what children learn in school.
 
Ideological Wedge
 Christian conservatives are not a new political phenomenon in the Republican Party in the South nor, for that matter, elsewhere in the country. Four years ago, the television evangelist Pat Robertson, head of the Virginia-based Christian Coalition, made a run for the Presidency. And in last fall's elections, Christian conservatives showed considerable political muscle, winning hundreds of seats from coast to coast on school boards, city councils, water district boards and the like.
What appears to be new is a concerted move to capture control of state parties and put forward candidates for top state offices. It is an effort that threatens to drive an ideological wedge into the heart of a party whose national leaders, mindful of the defeat of the national ticket last fall, are trying to erase a perception that Republicans are emphasizing the religious right's social agenda at the expense of bedrock economic issues.
"Joining religious conservatives and traditional Republicans is the single greatest problem that the Republican Party faces nationally," said Whit Ayres, an Atlanta poll taker and Republican consultant.
 
Divisive Search for Unity
 Indeed, divisiveness was the first issue addressed by Patrick M. McSweeney, the chairman of the Virginia Republican Party, when he took the lectern to close the no-quarter-given convention here.
"Unity!" he cried out.
It may be hard to come by. The 13,000 delegates who filed out of the Richmond coliseum tonight certainly did not leave united.
Their slate is the most conservative put up by Virginia Republicans in decades, no small accomplishment since the party here has long been one of the most conservative in the nation. Come November, they will face a trio of moderate Democrats running in a state that is increasingly moderate and has not backed a Republican slate for governor for the last 12 years.
Ann E. W. Stone of Alexandria, a founder of Republicans for Choice, a national group that advocates abortion rights, lamented that the state party had been taken over by "crazies" who were driven by emotion rather that reason.
"It's going to bring the whole ticket down," she said. "A top Democrat asked me the other day: 'Are you guys going to commit political suicide? We're licking our chops.' "
Another delegate, Steven Read of Fredericksburg, a strong proponent of abortion curbs and of greater parental involvement in the education process, argued that Ms. Stone missed the point.
"The win-ability aspect should be second to personal principles and character," he said. "It's the easy way out -- the liberal way out -- to nominate someone who's 'electable.' "
 
'In the Hands of Kooks'
 Nonpartisan political experts in Virginia tended to agree with Ms. Stone.
"The Republicans have shot themselves in the foot," said Mark J. Rozell, a political scientist at Mary Washington College who specializes in following state election developments. "They're more interested in being right, way right, than in winning. Of the seven candidates running for three offices, they chose the three most conservative, including one who's so conservative that the Democrats are going to cite him, for sure, as proof positive that the party is in the hands of kooks."
Mr. Rozell was referring to Michael P. Farris, a lawyer whom the convention nominated for Lieutenant Governor. He is a leader of the national movement to restore "traditional family and Christian values" in American life by educating children at home. He is also the author of "Where Do I Draw the Line?" He calls it a handbook for fighting back in "situations where Christians' rights are ignored."
Though Mr. Farris ran for the No. 2 spot on the ticket, he controlled more delegates than any other convention participant. Many of his delegates were also followers of Pat Robertson and the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the other well-known Virginia evangelist.
In fact, Mr. Farris's dominance of the convention was so complete -- his supporters began packing local delegate caucuses months ago -- that the nominee for governor, former United States Representative George F. Allen, and the nominee for attorney general, James S. Gilmore 3d, a Richmond-area prosecutor, both took pains to find a few kind words about him and his agenda and not to anger him or his supporters.
 
Right and Further Right
 Convention speakers who did anger those supporters, especially the speakers who called for political moderation, were invariably booed and shouted down.
Mr. Allen and Mr. Gilmore are both rock-hard conservatives. Mr. Farris, by way of comparison, is diamond hard.
His opponent for the nomination, Bobbie Kilberg, a White House aide in the Nixon, Ford and Bush Administrations, had the backing of former Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, "Mr. Conservative" within the party. But that was not good enough for the Farris delegates.
In the fall, Mr. Farris's Democratic opponent will be the incumbent Lieutenant Governor, Donald S. Beyer Jr.
In the governor's race, Mr. Allen will face Mary Sue Terry, the state's attorney general for the last eight years.
In the attorney general's race, Mr. Gilmore will face William D. Dolan 3d, a Northern Virginia lawyer.
All of the Democrats are moderates.
The state electorate is evenly divided among Republicans, Democrats and independents.
The current Governor, L. Douglas Wilder, a Democrat and the first black elected the governor of a state, cannot run for a second consecutive term under Virginia law.
"The Republicans chose to continue to lose," Mr. Wilder said of the convention.
In South Carolina, Carol Khare, the vice chairman of the Democratic Party, takes a similar view of the internecine Republican squabbling there.
"It's wonderful," she said. "They have been such a homogenous party and don't have a real perspective on diversity. This might be an opportunity for the typical, white, moderate voter who doesn't follow the agenda of the religious right to rediscover a more centrist Democratic Party."
The Republican divisiveness in South Carolina reached something of a nadir the other day when Barry Wynn, the outgoing party chairman, sent a letter to some of the party's biggest contributors, suggesting that they might want to end their financial support of a party that had become "intolerant, un-American and un-Republican."
 
No Compromise on God's Word
 "The individuals running the party," he wrote, "do not represent our beliefs, and we should not subsidize them."
He complained that groups of evangelical Christians were descending on local Republican caucuses all over the state, monopolizing delegate seats and excluding people who did not attend the right church often enough.
Richland County's Republican Party chairman, George Shissias, compared dealing with the Christian right to "going to bed with Dracula."
"You wake up expecting a couple of hickeys and find out later you have a couple of fang marks in your jugular," Mr. Shissias said. "These people aren't interested in politics. They are interested in establishing a theocracy."
In Greenwood County, one of the places where the old Republican order has been thrown out by Christian-right newcomers, Bonnie Grancelli, a leader in local anti-pornography campaigns, was recently elected the county's new Republican chairman. She credits her victory to a lack of conviction on the part of the old order.
"They are people who can go either way on some issues," she said. "But now we have people in place who are dogmatic on how they feel about some things. When I say dogmatic, I mean that when it is the word of God you are talking about, you don't compromise."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former United States Representative George F. Allen with his wife, Susan, during his acceptance of the Republican nomination for governor of Virginia at the Republican State Convention in Richmond. (Associated Press); "It's like going to bed with Dracula," said George Shissias, chairman of the Richland County, S.C., Republican Party, who last month managed to resist the religious right's efforts to win pivotal county posts. "You wake up expecting a couple of hickeys and find out later you have a couple of fang marks in your jugular." With him was his wife, June. (Wade Spees for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (67%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (67%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (67%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (67%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (67%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (67%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US); SOUTH CAROLINA; VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; ELECTIONS; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); GUN CONTROL (70%); ABORTION (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); CHILDREN (68%); CITIES (51%); CITY GOVERNMENT (51%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR MARION GORDON 'PAT' ROBERTSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



188 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Bolivian Businessman Is Leading in the Election for President

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia, June 6

 BODY:
A millionaire mining entrepreneur appeared to have come out ahead in Bolivia's presidential election today, receiving almost 38 percent of the vote, according to early and unofficial results.
For the entrepreneur, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, a similar outcome took place four years ago when he came out ahead in the popular vote in the presidential election only to lose out in the negotiations that characterize Bolivia's system of electoral politics. 
 Polling organizations and television networks, compiling results from across the country this evening, gave Mr. Sanchez de Lozada a lead of about 15 percentage points over his chief rival, Gen. Hugo Banzer Suarez, the former dictator whose Patriotic Accord coalition won an estimated 23 percent of the vote.
Of the country's population of 6.4 million, more than 2 million people had registered to vote in elections that fielded 14 presidential candidates and and a list of hopefuls for the 27-member Senate and the 130-member Chamber of Deputies of Congress. The public appears to have handed the 63-year-old Mr. Sanchez de Lozada the largest plurality since the country returned to democracy in 1982.
 
Chicago University Graduate
 Although it was still too early tonight for indications of the total voter turnout, the projections were made on a count of 600,000 votes.
But the vote does not necessarily mean that Mr. Sanchez de Lozada, a millionaire who holds a philosophy degree from the University of Chicago, will become Bolivia's next president. If he fails to win more than 50 percent of the vote, he will have to negotiate with members of the new Congress from other political parties to form a coalition government representing more than half of Congress.
Indeed, that sense of not actually electing a president, of not controlling the final outcome of the electoral process, was echoed among voters here.
"We vote today for a president, but we don't elect one," said Paulina Laura, an Aymara indian woman who sells sugar-water drinks, popcorn, candy and banana chips in the sprawling and impoverished city of El Alto, which overlooks La Paz, the capital. "It's okay to vote, but politicians in the end decide who is president."
Lorenzo Gutierrez, a union leader and supporter of the populist candidate, Max Fernandez, said, "The deal making starts this evening and no one knows how it will come out."
When Mr. Sanchez de Lozada won the election for president four years ago as the candidate of his National Revolutionary Movement, he failed to win a majority and eventually lost in the negotiations that followed.
"You need to lose the elections in Bolivia to become president of Bolivia," he has often said.
 
Backroom Deals Begin
 Indeed, beneath the veneer of peaceful and open elections is the backroom bargaining, payoffs, bribes, defections and negotiations that will begin in earnest on Monday and end when the new Congress selects a President.
For example, even if Mr. Sanchez de Lozada's party wins seats in the Congress, it does not mean that the elected deputies and senators will remain loyal to their party leader.
Over the last four years, 25 percent of senators and deputies have changed parties, with many of those switches due to political favors and payoffs, political analysts say.
But the race seems to have come down to the two major candidates: Mr. Sanchez de Lozada, a Bolivian raised in the United States who speaks Spanish with a thick American accent, and General Banzer, whose Patriotic Accord, a coalition of right- and left-wing parties, appears to have placed second.
Political analysts said much of Mr. Sanchez de Lozada's support came from his record as Planning Minister in 1985, when he was credited with stopping a hyperinflation rate of 25,000 percent. While he is seen as a candidate not tainted by corruption, the public has perceived arrogance at his sometimes quick and biting wit and a style that is more American than Bolivian.
General Banzer, a 67-year-old former leader of the country, won the most votes in 1985, but he was outmaneuvered in the negotiations by Mr. Sanchez de Lozada's party. The general ruled as a dictator from 1971 to 1978, and many Bolivians remember those years as a time of prosperity. General Banzer says this is the last time he will run for office.
Most of the country was calm today. All car and truck traffic was forbidden and political gatherings were banned as Bolivians went to the polls for the fourth-consecutive time since the last military government fell in 1982.
Voting, however, was marred by accusations of fraud and ineptitude. In La Paz, there were 7 percent more registered voters than supposedly exist there, according to the National Electoral Court, and that disrepancy could skew the results for some candidates.
 
Annulment Is Threatened
 In the southeastern city of Santa Cruz, General Banzer's Patriotic Accord complained that only 40 percent of the polling booths had opened by noon and that there were not enough ballots distributed in the area. The party threatened to call for an annulment of the elections in that region.
"You have to have some suspicions about the voting with that kind of problem," said Alfredo La Placa, a leading artist, after he voted.
Whether General Banzer or Mr. Sanchez de Lozada becomes President, both embrace policies to control Bolivian inflation, now among the lowest in Latin America, to encourage foreign investment and to foster close ties with the United States. Such free-market policies have created the most vibrant economy Bolivia has seen in years.
"Whatever the outcome, the winner will be our economic model," President Jaime Paz Zamora said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Aymara Indian dipping her finger in ink yesterday to show she had voted in La Paz, Bolivia. The elections were peaceful. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOLIVIA BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BRIBERY (65%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; SANCHEZ DE LOZADA, GONZALO GONZALO SANCHEZ DE LOZADA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



189 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fed Feels Pressure On Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The sharp jump in new jobs in May has brought closer the day when the Federal Reserve will have to raise short-term interest rates, traders and analysts say.
"It changes people's expectations," John E. Silvia, the chief economist for the Kemper Mutual Funds in Chicago, said. "I think the likelihood of a Fed tightening is up by 10 or 20 percent." 
 The prospects of the Federal Reserve's lifting interest rates to fight rising prices has been the talk of the bond market since mid-May. The speculation began after the Consumer Price Index for April showed inflation rising at a 4.3 percent annual rate this year. It intensified after news reports that said the central bank had decided to shift to a bias in favor of higher short-term interest rates at its monetary policy meeting on May 18.
But the increase of 209,000 nonfarm payroll jobs reported on Friday for May, combined with the revised April increase of 216,000, up from 119,000, indicated that the economy might be stronger than expected -- and that inflation was less likely to subside substantially in the second half of the year.
 
Key Reports Due
 More important, the data may indicate that the economy is strong enough for the Fed to contemplate raising interest rates without worrying about harming what has been a subpar economic recovery. Hence, the days of reckoning may arrive sooner.
They may come as soon as Friday and June 15, the days, respectively, for the release of the Producer Price Index and the Consumer Price Index for May. If these inflation indicators rise at the rate seen in the first four months of the year, some analysts said the Fed would raise rates immediately.
"The Fed will need a trigger, and it is likely that could be the upcoming inflation numbers," said John Lipsky, the chief economist at Salomon Brothers. "But, given these employment numbers, the elements to justify a move are already in place."
For short-term interest rates, the heightened Fed threat means yields will be moving higher, as was already evident Friday. The yield on the two-year note jumped to 4.31 percent, from 4.13 percent Thursday. A little more than three weeks ago, when talk of a Fed tightening was first heard, the rate was 3.76 percent.
The surge in short-term rates could not have come at a much worse time for the Treasury, which said on May 5 that it was making a major change in its borrowing practices. The Treasury cut the sales of 30-year bonds and shifted the borrowing to shorter-term, lower-interest-rate securities from three-year notes down to three-month bills.
Since the announcement, the discount rate on the three-month bill has jumped from 2.86 percent to 3.08 percent; the rate on the one-year bill has gone from 3.09 percent to 3.50 percent, and the rate on the three-year note has moved from 4.11 percent to 4.64 percent. This could put a crimp in the Treasury's hope to cut borrowing costs, but at least it assures that it was not trying to be a market timer.
For long-term interest rates, the outlook is a little less clear. If the employment data are signaling that the economy is on a growth path of 3 percent to 3.5 percent, rather than the anemic pace of nine-tenths of a percent shown in the first quarter, then traders and investors could be worried. Not only would they fear that 1993 inflation would be higher than the 2.9 percent of 1992, but also that it is on a trajectory to rise further in 1994. This would put upward pressure on long-term interest rates.
But an increase by the Fed in short-term rates could also reduce the upward pressure on long-term rates by helping convince investors that the central bank will do what is necessary -- even if it means a clash with the Clinton Administration -- to keep prices from rising too quickly.
The potential for this kind of impact was seen in the last two weeks. While short-term rates have jumped much higher since the inflation reports for April were released in mid-May, long-term rates have held steady, remaining essentially in a trading range below 7 percent. Even with a sharp selloff Friday, the yield on the 30-year bond rose only to 6.91 percent.
Another sign of this impact is that the spread between the yields on short-term and long-term securities -- which is called the yield curve -- has narrowed, or, using the market term, flattened drastically. On Friday, the spread narrowed to 2.60 percentage points, the flattest the curve has been since May 1992.
"The surprise of the past few weeks is that the Fed has appeared more ready to act than many investors thought," Mr. Lipsky of Salomon Brothers said.
Just the reports that the Fed had shifted to a bias toward higher short-term interest rates, he said, were enough to "hold long-term rates down relative to short-term rates and contain the backup of long-term yields."
 
Assuming an Increase
 Analysts said Friday that investors and traders have already appeared to factor in an increase of one-quarter of a percentage point in the central bank's target for the Federal funds rate, which is the interest on overnight loans between banks and is the rate that the Fed uses to enact monetary policy. The Fed target for that rate has been 3 percent since September.
Neal M. Soss, the chief economist at the First Boston Corporation, had a dissenting view. He did not think the Fed would raise interest rates soon or that the jobs data made a Fed move more likely.
He argued that even with the jump in new jobs in May, the increases were way behind those of a normal recovery and "the Fed will not want to restrain the economy until labor markets have caught up." He also said that fear of derailing President Clinton's economic program by generating opposition in Congress with higher short-term rates should also restrain the Fed.
And just because short-term rates have risen in expectation of a Fed move does not mean a move is going to happen. The market has been wrong before. Though the yield on the two-year note was up to 4.82 percent last Dec. 1 and was more than 4.40 percent in November, December and early January, the Federal Reserve left its target for the Fed funds rate at 3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (57%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



190 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Pact Seeks Uniformity in Stock Rules

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 5

 BODY:
Regulators from 11 Latin American countries, the United States and Canada have signed an agreement to toughen and unify regulation of stock exchanges in the Americas.
The accord, reached in meetings here on Thursday and Friday, reflects the new-found popularity of Latin American stocks and a realization that these emerging markets are plagued by manipulation, insider trading and other abuses. The regulators agreed to increase the reporting requirements for brokers, to speed up dissemination of trading information to the public and to monitor more closely investment advisers working with foreign clients. 
 "We are now convinced that the countries that have the best regulated, the most transparent, fairest markets, where there is the least possibility for manipulation and fraud, will attract the most investment from abroad," said Luis Miguel Moreno, the president of Mexico's National Securities Commission. "What we have done does not have the force of law, but commits the regulators to a path of better regulation."
The agreement was signed under the auspices of the Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas, which was formed last year in response to rising investor interest in stock markets in Latin America.
The Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington said holdings of Latin American stocks by United States investors have risen to $4.4 billion this year, from $2.6 billion in 1992.
 
A Need to Attract Capital
 "I think these countries know that in order to continue their current rates of growth, they need to attract more and more capital from abroad, and one way to do that is to have efficient, transparent markets," said Mary L. Schapiro, the acting chairwoman of the S.E.C.
Ms. Schapiro said many of the goals adopted by the securities group would provide the public with more trading information than is available on many European exchanges.
Latin American markets have boomed in the last two and a half years in part because of the privatization of state-held companies and by economic policies that have reduced inflation, re-ignited growth and brought stability to countries like Mexico, Argentina and Chile.
Among the privatization efforts is the planned sale next month of stock in Argentina's state oil company, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales. An underwriting syndicate, led by First Boston and Merrill Lynch, hopes to raise up to $2.5 billion for a 35 percent interest in the company, making it perhaps the largest initial public offering in the world this year.
Wall Street's interest in Latin America is such that almost every brokerage firm now has a group doing business here. "I don't know of any Latin American economists on Wall Street who are out of work," said Suhas Ketkar, a Latin American economist for First Boston.
But S.E.C. officials worry about the 50 investment advisers in Latin America who recommend stocks for American investors. There is also concern over reports that brokers often buy stocks for their own accounts before buying for their customers, pushing the prices up.
American regulators also worry that American investors may not get fair prices and that some Latin American investment advisers may fill orders for local customers first.
"What we need is for the regulators here to make sure the services these investment advisers are giving are consistent with the law," said Michael Mann, the head of the international division of the S.E.C.
Under the accord, the regulators have agreed to develop reporting systems on exchanges that would disseminate trading data on all transactions within 90 seconds of the trade, what they refer to as "real-time reporting."
In the United States, most trades are reported within nine seconds, although in Europe delays in reporting often extend for hours, making investors less confident that they are getting the most up-to-date price on a stock they are trading. The time lag also increases the possibility that market makers would take advantage of short-term discrepancies in the prices of stocks
The agreement called for the implementation of tough audit trail requirements for brokers so regulators could trace possible insider trading and manipulation activities. It also would require closer monitoring of clearing and settlement houses.
Still, the agreement does not mean overnight changes and freedom for investors from the risk of market manipulation. Many countries have admitted that such systems would require higher staffing levels, extensive training in investigative and auditing techniques, and millions of dollars of computer systems.
Many of the changes would also require legislation. In Mexico, for example, the Congress is considering three significant changes in its securities laws. One change would permit regulators to exchange confidential trading information with regulators from other countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); YACIMIENTOS PETROLIFEROS FISCALES BOLIVIANOS (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES; CANADA LATIN AMERICA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); STOCK OFFERINGS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C MARY L SCHAPIRO (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



191 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Experts Wavering on Steep Rise in Cigarette Tax

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
President Clinton is eagerly eyeing a fat new tax on cigarettes, and for reasons easy to fathom. Tobacco addicts are a proven menace to themselves and others, so why not turn that to advantage, deterring their destructive behavior with high costs and using the revenue to offset the burden smokers add to the nation's health bill?
While the size of the tax is still being debated in the Administration, reports last week suggested that it could be as high as $2 a pack to help cover the cost of the health-care plan the President is preparing to submit to Congress later this year. 
 "They know cigarette taxes are both good health policy and good politics," says Michael Pertschuk, who was chairman of the Federal Trade Commission in the Carter Administration.
But what seems like slam-dunk common sense to many people arouses unease, if not outright opposition, from economists who study issues at the intersection of health and tax policy.
 
Smokers Seen as Paying Costs
 While smokers do generate a burden on the medical system, the widely held view that smokers do not pay for the damage they cause is probably wrong, most agree. And while many experts justify Government-imposed restraints on the ground that adolescents and nicotine-addicted adults cannot accurately judge what is in their long-term best interests, this view is being increasingly challenged.
An obvious reason for taxing tobacco is that is where the money is. According to the Advocacy Institute, a Washington group that works closely with anti-smoking advocates, an extra $2 a pack would generate close to $40 billion next year. And though revenues would quickly fall as cigarette sales diminished, the cash infusion would help offset the cost of expanded health insurance coverage until savings could be realized from efficiencies in health-care delivery.
If the only thing needed was a broad-based new source of revenue, the Government could as fruitfully, and more reliably, tax shoes or soap. But cigarette taxes are more easily rationalized as forcing smokers to cover their own costs, much the way so-called green taxes force polluters to pay the cost of tidying their messes.
Smokers do, indeed, put special burdens on health insurance. The latest estimates, from Thomas Hodgson, the chief economist at the National Center for Health Statistics, show that the lifetime medical costs of the average male smoker exceed those of men who never smoked by 32 percent.
 
Pensions Not Collected
 That is not the complete story, however. John Shoven, an economist at Stanford University, said the higher medical costs are substantially offset by the fact that smokers conveniently die before their time and thus contribute a disproportionate share into the nation's pension funds. The difference for Social Security alone, he estimates, comes to more than $20,000 paid in and never collected by each smoker.
Will Manning, now at the University of Minnesota's School of Public Health, led of team of economists who in 1989 calculated the "external" costs of tobacco use (the costs not borne by smokers) and subtracted smokers' implicit pension transfers to nonsmokers. Their estimate of that external burden, 24 cents a package, is substantial, but far below the tax rate under consideration by the Clinton Administration. In fact, it is far less than the tax already collected on most packs of cigarettes sold in the United States.
Ken Warner, an economist at the University of Michigan's School of Public Health, pointed out that the Manning calculation was made before the effects of "passive smoking" were well understood. A proper estimate, he argued, should include the health effects on the families of smokers and the fetuses of pregnant women who smoked.
But Mr. Manning said he doubted that a full accounting of these added costs would increase the cost for a pack much more than 50 cents. And in any event, some analysts say they are not convinced that focusing on smokers' faults is warranted in a world that is full of antisocial habits, many of them affecting society's total health bill.
"People take all sorts of risks with medical consequences," notes Robert Tollison, the director of George Mason University's Center for the Study of Public Choice who is sometimes consultant to the tobacco industry. "Why tax smoking, but not the consumption of saturated fat?"
The case for heftier taxes on smokers is further complicated by the lack of competition in the tobacco industry. Through the 1980's, argues Philip Cook, an economist at Duke University's School of Public Policy, the price of cigarettes rose far faster than production costs and tax increases could have conceivably warranted.
Joe Camel and the Marlboro Man now seem to be suffering from a resurgence of price competition from generic cigarettes. But cigarette profits, and prices, remain high by any market test, suggesting that smokers are already paying a monopoly "tax" to cigarette makers on top of Federal and state taxes. Thus any calculation of the optimal tax that would penalize smokers for the harm they do to others ought to be reduced by the amount of this tribute siphoned off by the tobacco industry.
The weakness of the conventional wisdom that smokers fail to pay their own way is quietly acknowledged by some anti-smoking strategists. But they say they do not believe that that argument is really necessary to justify a big tax on tobacco.
 
Canada's Tax Cuts Smoking
 Higher prices would be an effective deterrent to beginning a tobacco habit and a powerful motivator to quit, they say. In Canada, where a $3 tax has more than doubled the average price to close to $6 a pack since 1982, average consumption of cigarettes has fallen by 40 percent.
But does Washington have the right to play national nanny, inhibiting self-destructive behavior with a tax that would cut deeply into the living standards of heavily addicted people with modest incomes who choose to smoke in spite of the tax penalty? The answer, for many analysts, is an emphatic yes.
Smoking is a habit typically acquired early in life, they point out. And teen-agers hardly fit the model of the rational people whose "consumer sovereignty" economic theorists so vigorously defend. "I would not trust the 17-year-old Philip Cook to be a careful steward of the 40-year-old Philip Cook's body," said Mr. Cook, a former smoker.
Thomas C. Schelling, an economist at the University of Maryland's School of Public Affairs, said he also saw a case for intervening in the behavior of adult nicotine addicts. He says decisions about tobacco are a struggle between short- and long-term desires, in which the powerful urge to alleviate an immediate, concrete hunger conflicts with the more abstract desire to avoid future health problems.
 
All Overestimate Risks
 Quitting is obviously tough -- tougher, Mr. Schelling suggests, than neophyte smokers understand. And regret sets in early. In a 1980 survey, he noted, more than half the smokers 20 to 25 years old who smoked said they had made three or more unsuccessful attempts to break the habit.
But economists with a strong libertarian bent are not satisfied with this justification for paternalism.
W. Kip Viscusi, an economist at Duke University and the author of "Smoking: Making the Risky Decision" (Oxford University Press, 1992), used a 1985 survey of some 3,000 smokers and nonsmokers to see if they correctly perceived the risks of smoking. The results matched many earlier findings that, on average, both smokers and nonsmokers actually overestimated the probability of death and illness from tobacco. Perhaps most surprising, teen-agers attached a higher risk to smoking than did the rest of the population.
That does not necessarily mean teen-agers make good use of the perception. But research by Baruch Bischoff, an experimental psychologist at Carnegie-Mellon University, suggests that the view of adolescents as myopic thrill-seekers is overdrawn.
"We haven't found that teen-agers think they are invulnerable," said Mr. Bischoff. "We haven't been finding much difference between adults and teen-agers in how they process information about risk."
 
Raising Many Questions
 But he did offer some important qualifications. For one thing, he noted, adolescents may fear social ostracism more than adults, making them more susceptible to peer pressure to take risks. More generally, he said he thought that numerical estimates of risk were crude indicators of how people perceive risk -- that people did not really have a way of grasping how percentage chances of dying actually compared with each other and what they meant.
But Mr. Viscusi does not find these to be convincing counter-arguments for a tax-based deterrent, even if one accepts them. If the object is to stop teen-age smoking, he says, why tax adult smoking? If the object is to save the innocent from passive smoking, why tax smoking in private? Enforcement of regulations against the sale of cigarettes to minors and the use of tobacco in public places, he believes, would be a "more efficient" means to these social ends.
This debate has not filtered into public consciousness so far. Even if it did, the arguments against the tax would probably not persuade many people.
What probably matters most is that a cigarette tax could be a major cash cow, a means of collecting a lot of revenue with minimal offense to the three Americans in four who do not smoke, and at the same time of saving thousands of lives. But is a big cigarette tax, on balance, justified by the conventional wisdom? Like many of his fellow professionals, Mr. Schelling is troubled. "I just don't know," he concedes.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Risks of Smoking" shows findings from a 1985 survey of 3,000 Americans which asked various groups what they think is the likelihood of a person's dying of lung cancer caused by smoking. Also shown are the "actual" percentages of lifetime risk from smoking, based on a range of 1991 estimates from various Federal sources. (Source: "Smoking: Making the Risky Decision" by W. K. Viscusi)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON GROUP-ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION (54%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (54%); ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (54%); ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EXCISE TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SMOKING (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); POLITICS (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); PENSION FUNDS (69%); STATISTICS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



192 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Jitters in a Showplace of Gadgets

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 6

 BODY:
Dell Jones played a round of golf today -- without ever leaving a television set here at the Consumer Electronics Show.
His hand on a remote-control device, his eyes on the animated golfer he was guiding, Mr. Jones, who is middle-aged, happily hacked his way through the Palm Springs Open. Throughout, he laughed at the kibitzing golf announcer who commented on every shot.
"This is great!" he exclaimed to spectators nodding their agreement.
Mr. Jones' enthusiasm was typical today in the vast McCormick Place exhibition halls, as more than 25,000 electronic-gadget lovers played video games, watched demonstrations of wristwatch telephones and huge home television sets, put on sunglasses equipped with miniature television screens, and otherwise sampled the newest wares of more than 100 electronics companies.
 
Joy, but Not Resolution
 But if their smiles were music to the vendors' ears, they did little to answer tough questions facing the consumer electronics industry when it came to town four days ago for its 48th semi-annual show. 
 The optimists and the worriers both have plenty to ponder as glimmers of renewed industry growth have been clouded by concern about what the recently rising Japanese yen may do to a market in which Japanese goods play a pivotal role.
Consumer electronics sales, though still sluggish by long-term standards, have been stronger than expected in the first few months of this year. Indeed, forecasters have revised their projections for all of 1993 to growth of 5.6 percent -- more than two percentage points higher than the forecast at the winter Consumer Electronics Show in January.
Such growth would lead to total hardware sales of about $40 billion. Despite a sluggish economy, consumers appear to willing to buy a wide range of items, not to mention spending $4 billion more on games and software for equipment they already own.
Rapid growth areas include large-screen television sets, which are expected to increase unit sales by 30 percent; camcorders, up 15 percent; portable compact-disk players, up 28 percent, and cellular telephones, up 20 percent, according to a survey by the Electronics Industries Association, the show's sponsor. Revenue will be up somewhat less as prices continue to drop in many categories.
But many manufacturers and retailers worry that even growth areas could be hurt by the continuing decline of the dollar against the yen. At the current exchange value of just under 108 yen, the dollar has dropped nearly 20 percent since the beginning of the year, and this is sharply cutting into the profits of the Japanese manufacturers, who are being paid in these weakened dollars from sales in the United States.
This currency movement suggests that prices might fall less quickly on some products than consumers have come to expect -- fax machines, for instance -- and could rise for others -- like television sets, which have been sold for much longer periods.
Pressure on Japanese manufacturers to raise prices has been cushioned this year, compared with previous periods when the yen was strong, because a higher proportion of their manufacturing is now being done in the United States or in lower-cost Asian countries.
Another damper on growth is the confusion about which technologies will emerge as the industry standards in interactive multimedia products, widely seen as the industry's most appealing growth segment.
Will consumers prefer games and entertainment to television, as Philips Consumer Electronics and the 3DO Company are betting with their competing compact-disk systems that attach to a standard television set? Or do people prefer to play on the screens of the increasingly powerful computers showing up in more homes?
 
Scenes From 'Voyeur'
 For at least the next few years, traditional video-game companies like Sega and Nintendo do not expect either approach to replace their far-cheaper cassette-based products that are now widely used. But Sega has already introduced its own television compact-disk system, and Nintendo, which had promised to introduce one last year, continues to invest in developing its own.
As demonstrated at the current show, compact-disk technology is nudging open the door to the manipulation by users of full-motion video, high-quality graphics and high-fidelity sound on their television sets.
Philips showed scenes from "Voyeur," an interactive mystery movie being made for its system starring Robert Culp, that enables a user to peer into various rooms of a house at any time, collect evidence, call in the police and even get shot at by characters on the screen if he or she makes a wrong move.
Among the more noteworthy announcements at the show was A.T.& T.'s agreement with Sega of America to develop a device code-named the Edge 16 to let players of Sega's video games compete with other players over regular phone lines.
A.T.& T. also announced that it would take majority control of EO Inc., a two-year-old start-up company in Mountain View, Calif., which has been a pioneer in what are known as personal communicators.
These hand-held devices -- on display at the show in an array of shapes and sizes -- combine telephone and computing functions and are controlled by a pen. EO's product, which costs as much as $4,000 for the most advanced model, can record handwritten notes, send and receive faxes, and connect to on-line computer services like Compuserve via modem or cellular-phone circuits.
The industry in general was somewhat less enthusiastic about the show than the consumers who flocked to it today. There were fewer exhibitors this year, in part because of sluggish sales in some products and also because of a trend by major manufacturers to show their new products during private sales meetings in April and May.
The major television makers who chose not to exhibit included Sony and Toshiba. Those who displayed their wares emphasized feature-laden large-screen models that have larger profit margins.
"A little more than a Timex," commented Shelly Lawler, tapping her watch as she demonstrated a line of Panasonic television sets ranging up to a 58-inch model that will cost $6,000. "But a little less than a Lexus."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago on Saturday, Doug Sobery donned Virtual Vision glasses equipped with television screens. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (75%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) ELECTRONICS (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); GOLF (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (75%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



193 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Trenton Acts to Loosen Industrial Cleanup Law

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 3

 BODY:
Confronting a precipitous loss of industrial jobs, New Jersey is preparing to weaken environmental cleanup rules for land intended for industrial or commercial use.
Although environmentalists are worried that the proposal will set a bad precedent, urban planners are applauding it, saying it would address a problem that exists to varying degrees across the country: urban land lying fallow, in part because of the costs of cleaning up pollution. 
 For a decade the New Jersey law, the Environmental Cleanup Responsibility Act, has required sellers of industrial property to undertake a stringent cleanup of the land, thus raising the price of the land and creating uncertainty about when the deal could go through.
This is one reason that companies wanting to build industrial plants have ventured out into rural areas. As a result, old industrial areas have often not been redeveloped.
In Union County, N.J., for example, a recent survey by the Regional Plan Association found that abandoned industrial properties made up 2,500 acres or 4 percent of the county.
"I'm sure it's in the tens of thousands of acres for the region as a whole," said Robert D. Yarrow, executive director of the association, which covers parts of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.
If urban land is not recycled and plants move into rural areas, Mr. Yarrow said, urban sprawl increases, creating a need for new roads and other infrastructure improvements, and moving jobs out of the reach of people who must use public transportation. Local authorities in London and Paris, said Mr. Yarrow, make old industrial sites "the focal points for metropolitan plans."
 
Action in the Legislature
 Urban sites may be abandoned for other reasons, of course, including crime and taxes. But the political consensus in New Jersey, which has seen a sharp decline in economic activity, is that inflexible environmental laws play a big part.
Today an Assembly committee gave unanimous approval to a major revision of the environmental cleanup act, which has required that when industrial property changes hands, the seller must reduce contamination so that no single pollutant will cause more than one fatal case of cancer for each million people exposed.
In March the Senate gave unanimous approval to a similar bill, and the Florio administration supports the measure. Final passage is expected soon.
The main way people are exposed to contaminants in soil is by swallowing dirt or dust, so the practical effect of the existing cleanup standard is to require that dirt be clean enough for use in a playground, even if the parcel is to be a factory or a parking lot.
Business owners, municipal officials and real-estate brokers say that rather than assuring that each property is cleaned as it changes hands, the effect of the law has been to make old industrial properties almost impossible to sell.
 
A Variable Standard
 "We thought 10 years ago, in trying to preserve the environment, that you'd return these lands to pristine picnic areas, but it can't happen, it's impossible," said William J. Pascrell Jr., the Mayor of Paterson and a state assemblyman. Instead, he said, investors are scared off by the barriers to buying old industrial properties.
"We've slowed the process, and we haven't cleaned the environment," he said.
The new bill retains the one-in-a-million standard, but calculates exposure differently, taking into account the proposed use of the land. If the use is going to be residential, individuals would still be presumed to be exposed 24 hours a day. But if the land is going to be, say, a parking lot, then people would be assumed to have a far lower exposure from a given amount of a contaminant. Thus the site would meet the standard after a less extensive cleanup.
Some people worry about what would happen if housing were built on the land decades from now. But supporters say that cleanup may get easier over time and that, in any case, factories are seldom torn down to make room for housing.
 
A Mall as an Example
 To some extent regulators in other states have taken future use into account, even if there is no statutory provision. In Syracuse, for example, the Carousel Mall was built on the site of an old industrial landfill, over which there had been a cement plant, a fuel company and a junkyard.
The state allowed some contaminated material to be left under the mall buildings and parking lot, said J. Langdon Marsh, the executive deputy commissioner of the state's Environmental Conservation Department.
"It was a good re-use of basically a very tough to re-use property," said Mr. Marsh. "If it had been a residential subdivision I very much doubt there would have been any construction allowed without excavating the whole soil down to bedrock."
To some, the concept shows welcome flexibility. John T. O'Connor, executive director of the Jobs and the Environment Campaign, a Boston-based organization made up of representatives of citizens' groups from communities near toxic sites, said: "The environmental community as a whole ignores the economics of its actions. The community has not put the environmental agenda in the economic context."
 
'A Very Troubling Precedent'
 But Daniel J. Weiss, the director of the Sierra Club's Environmental Quality Program, said, "This a very troubling precedent."
He argued that, while the one-in-a-million standard for cancer fatalities might sound high, it actually understated the risk. Each site may have several pollutants that each pose that risk, he said, and individuals may have several sources of exposure.
In addition, he said, the standard used was based on healthy white adult males, while children, the elderly and members of minority groups may all be more vulnerable. And the calculation only counts cancer, he said, not birth defects or genetic changes.
He said New Jersey's approach could set a precedent for the 1,100 polluted sites at old military bases, which Washington wants to convert to civilian industrial use.
Many New Jersey environmentalists have doubts about the changes, but they are in full retreat here as their opponents argue that environmental rules are responsible for the state's industrial job loss, which comes to 200,000 since 1986.
 
Criticism of Uncertainty
 Business is not completely happy with the new bill either, because it retains a cleanup procedure that some experts say is overly cumbersome and, as with the current law, leaves uncertainty about what must be done and when it can be completed, and therefore when the property can change hands.
The Regional Plan Association, a voluntary group that studies issues of interest to the region's economy and environment, plans to hold a workshop on urban land recycling at its annual meeting on Tuesday at the New York Hilton. It supports standards based on intended property use, but also supports more emphasis on cleaning up urban land.
The New Jersey bill would, in fact, provide $50 million in state money for grants and loans for cleanups. But it still leaves a welter of problems.
Take, for example, the situation faced by Lewis S. Ripps, the president of Palmer Asphalt Company, a roofing materials company on West Fifth Street in Bayonne, N.J., that employs 11 people. The company has been in Mr. Ripps's family since it was founded in 1932.
Mr. Ripps does not know if the site of his company has environmental problems and does not want to. "If you don't have knowledge of it, you don't have to do anything about it," he said.
 
An Asset or Liability?
 But ignorance is not really bliss. He would like to expand but cannot borrow money against the property, he said, because it is subject to the environmental cleanup law. Banks in New Jersey, as well as around the country, are wary of approving mortgages on land that may be polluted, for fear of ending up with a liability instead of an asset. Mr. Ripps, in fact, fears that his property may have "a negative net worth."
And if passing the business on to his son-in-law some day requires a sale -- as it may because Mr. Ripps has a partner who does not have a child interested in the company -- Mr. Ripps is not sure how it could be sold. In some cases, simply determining whether the property has a problem can cost tens of thousands of dollars. "Am I giving him a gift," he said, "or am I giving him a prison sentence?"
Many rules governing soil pollution are Federal and thus are unaffected by New Jersey's law, but the law here, known by its initials, ECRA, has become a lightning rod for complaints about the state's business climate.
"I've never seen any data that ECRA has saved one life or prevented one illness," said Mr. Ripps.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lewis S. Ripps of Palmer Asphalt Company of Bayonne, N.J., cannot borrow to expand because the property is subject to environmental cleanup law. With him is his son Van. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (54%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (54%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP RESPONSIBILITY ACT (NJ); URBAN AREAS; LAND USE POLICIES; RURAL AREAS; LABOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



194 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Not on My Median;
Park Ave. Sculpture Show Opposed

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
When the monumental bronze sculptures of Fernando Botero arrived on the Champs-Elysees a few months ago, Paris embraced them. Thousands flocked to see them. Children climbed over them. Tourists posed beside them. And traffic snarled as drivers craned for a glimpse. The artist himself marveled at the "orgy of love and sensuality."
Now the sculptures are due to come to Park Avenue -- to New York City's own Champs-Elysees. And people are outraged. 
 In fact, an offer by the Public Art Fund to put 14 of Mr. Botero's cheerfully corpulent humans and animals in the medians of Park Avenue on the Upper East Side has met the sort of neighborhood opposition more often engendered when someone proposes to build, say, a shelter for the homeless.
"What comes next?" said Margaret Ternes, the executive director of the Park Avenue Malls Planting Project, a private organization that has tended the avenue's verdant gardens for 12 years and vowed to fight the installation of the sculptures, arguing, among other things, that they could lead to traffic accidents.
 
'It's Just the Precedent'
 "I have nothing against Botero," she said. "It's just the precedent of it all."
The reaction has stunned and befuddled those who hoped to re-create in New York some of the extraordinary public fervor that greeted the sculptures in Paris. And it has raised questions about who should decide what belongs in the city's public spaces.
"We thought we were doing something good," said James Clark, the executive director of the Public Art Fund, a nonprofit group that installs artworks around the city. "Now it seems we're putting an incinerator in the neighborhood."
With the neighborhood's two community boards expected to vote this week to recommend endorsing or opposing the sculptures, the city's Department of Parks and Recreation has suddenly found itself staring at the unenviable prospect of having to choose between two philanthropies that have done much to beautify the city's sidewalks and parks.
"We'd like to have everybody's blessings," said Jonathan Peyser, the department's curator of public art.
 
Works Forged in Tuscany
 The large bronze sculptures -- part of a new series forged by Mr. Botero, a Colombian, in his studio in Tuscany -- depict men, women, children, birds and cats in the voluptuous style that has made him one of the world's most popular artists.
Mr. Clark said he decided to arrange an exhibition in New York after visiting Paris last winter and witnessing the excitement the sculptures generated among an anxious public in the doldrums over France's economy and other woes. With Mr. Botero and the Marlborough Gallery in Manhattan, Mr. Clark asked the Parks Department to grant a permit to place them at the tips of avenue's grassy, flowery medians between 54th and 61st Streets for eight weeks beginning in September.
The department enthusiastically accepted, but then the trouble began.
Ms. Ternes said the proposal has infuriated many of the residents along Park Avenue who have donated more than $3 million since 1980 to plant and tend the gardens on the avenue's medians between 54th and 96th Streets.
The residents, she said, have nothing against Mr. Botero's work, but rather oppose "any kind of anything" on the mall except for tulips, begonias, grass, trees and shrubs (specifically a variety called taxus, which, she noted, is "almost indestructible except by car and taxi").
In a strongly worded letter to parks officials and members of Community Boards 5 and 8, Ms. Ternes said the sculptures would attract thousands of art lovers, young and old, increasing the risk of traffic accidents and quite possibly disturbing the flora.
Most of all, though, she said, residents feared that the sculptures would set a precedent of crass commercialism.
As it did in Paris, the exhibition will focus attention on Mr. Botero's work and almost certainly increase the prestige and value of his art, but Jack Mognaz, the vice president of the Marlborough Gallery, said none of the sculptures would be for sale during the exhibition, part of which is scheduled to move to Mexico City next and later possibly to Spain.
 
'A Great Idea'
 The motivation, he said, was purely philanthropic. "Everybody thought -- and Mr. Botero agreed -- it was such a great idea to give something to New York," he said.
The proposal has the enthusiastic support of many residents and other groups on the Upper East Side, including the Park Avenue Association, who have vowed to rally around the sculptures.
Either way, the controversy has again underscored the deep passions New Yorkers feel toward the city's precious open spaces, its parks and gardens that, more and more in recent years, have been kept alive with private donations and manpower.
And it has raised an intriguing question about what some see as another troubling precedent: can a private group buy the right to decide what is appropriate for a public space simply because it contributes money or manpower to it?
 
A Right to Space
 "There are people who feel proprietary about their spaces," Mr. Peyser of the Parks Department said, recalling a recent exhibition in a tiny park in lower Manhattan that at first bothered the homeless people living there. ("They're my toughest critics," he said.) "But I don't know when you begin to say someone has more right to space than someone else."
Warrie L. Price, the chairwoman of Community Board 8 and a resident of the avenue who has also expressed concern about the sculptures, disagreed. She said the planting association deserved a greater say because of all it has contributed to the city.
Still, Ms. Price and parks officials said they hoped that the neighbors' concerns could be addressed amicably and that in the end the sculptures would find a welcome patch in the city.
"Art is inevitably controversial," said Michael Presser, the chairman of Community Board 5 on the East Side, who supports the exhibit. "It seems to become a lightning rod whenever you talk about what public space should be used for. And Park Avenue is particularly delicate space."
Mr. Botero, reached by telephone at his studio in Pietrasanta, Italy, spoke philosophically about the dispute, saying that even in Paris the sculptures had to overcome bureaucracy and egos in the beginning. "It's almost impossible to please everybody," he said.
Mr. Botero, who is 61, added that he understood that much about New Yorkers, since he keeps an apartment in the city. "Actually, I live on Park Avenue -- at 79th Street," he said, pausing for a moment. "But I'm not against my own show."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Botero's "Little Bird." (Marlborough Gallery Inc.) (pg. B1); The median on Park Avenue near the corner of East 59th Street is one of the proposed sites for displaying sculptures by Fernando Botero. The plan has met with tremendous opposition from residents. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

COMPANY: PARK AVENUE MALLS PLANTING PROJECT PARK AVENUE BANK (VALDOSTA, GEORGIA) (91%); PARK AVENUE TRAVEL INC (91%); PARK AVENUE HOME THERAPEUTICS INC (91%); PARK AVENUE LINGERIE LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARK AVENUE MALLS PLANTING PROJECT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHAMPS-ELYSEES (PARIS); NEW YORK CITY; PARK AVENUE (NYC); PARIS (FRANCE) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: ART; GARDENS AND GARDENING; SCULPTURE SCULPTURE (92%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); GARDENING (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); CATS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (61%); HOMELESSNESS (54%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; BOTERO, FERNANDO; TERNES, MARGARET MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



195 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Hillsborough Journal;
The Talk of the Isle (Pop. 6,000): Liberty or Death

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HILLSBOROUGH, Carriacou

 BODY:
In these times of blossoming multiculturalism, the tiny island of Carriacou has decided that self-respect demands that it too should join the struggle to say its piece.
For too long, residents say, they have been the silent victims of their administrative overlords in Grenada, or the "mainland," 20 miles to the south, and recently they have begun to insist that they be allowed to assert their own traditions. 
 The unlikely inspiration for this dissonance under the sedating Windward climes is an activity that the 6,000 Carriacouans assert is ingrained in their very fiber: contraband, or bobol, as it is known in the local, French-inspired patois.
In a debate that they say strongly echoes the American independence movement against Britain, they have begun to argue that with little in the way of return on their taxes paid to Grenada, there is no reason they should submit to customs duties on imported goods imposed by their sister island.
 
Invoking Their Birthright
 Unlike Grenada with its banana and nutmeg farming, they say, the people here make their living through a combination of fishing and sailing from island to island throughout the region, trading goods freely and informally and returning with whatever is lacking at home. To interfere with this livelihood, Carriacouans can be heard to say nowadays, would be to rob them of their birthright.
Fittingly, the Patrick Henry of this drama is an American-trained lawyer, Anselm B. Clouden, who by evoking the seafaring ways of his ancestors, and their descendants' supposed mistreatment at the hands of Grenadians, has begun to arouse strong nationalist passions in his neighbors.
To the outsider, Carriacouans and Grenadians can seem very much alike, both in appearance and accent. As might be suspected, the two islands share much history, from the destruction of local Indian populations, to the importation of slave labor from West Africa and colonial rule under France, then Britain.
But comparisons bring from Mr. Clouden a detailed and impassioned accounting of the cultural differences that separate the people here from their neighbors in Grenada.
 
A Different Mentality
 "Grenada has evolved from a plantocracy, so their mentality is different from ours," said Mr. Clouden, peppering his speech with phrases like "liberty or death," and "taxation without representation," evocative of the American Revolution. "We being a small island look to the sea for our living. Our forefathers always made their living the same way, risking their lives as brave men to bring the goods home to their valiant wives.
"Trade has never been subjected to customs here, and what the Grenadians are trying to do to us is nothing short of the kind of ethnic discrimination that many have suffered from in your country."
On the streets of Hillsborough, the waterfront town of 600 that would serve as capital if this 16-square-mile speck of land were to achieve its dream of independence, others put this sentiment more simply, but with similar conclusions.
"The Grenadians are a bit different from us, but I can't say exactly why," said Lennox Corion, a taxi driver. "We have an old saying here that if a Carriacouan and a Grenadian get married, their life together won't last."
If Carriacou can be said to have had its own Tea Party, most residents would say the event was the arrival some months back of a British customs expert contracted by the Government of Grenada to see to it that import duties were being paid here.
When the agent arrived on a Saturday, residents recount, none of the island's few taxis would carry him with his bags to his temporary residence. On the next Monday, when offices opened, local government workers too refused to help him, and police officers had to be sent from Grenada to assist.
Many here described this passive resistance as a deeply satisfying, if appropriately low-key, act of defiance for a slumbering fishing settlement where chickens feel secure enough to rest in potholes because of the lack of traffic.
"I wouldn't speak of an insurrection, but whenever government is destructive to the rights of its citizens, the people must contemplate their own liberation," Mr. Clouden intoned gravely, talking up the idea of forcing a vote on secession in the next elections. "When we meet eyeball to eyeball, every true Carriacouan simply wishes to be left alone."
 
Patience Is Urged
 But while Mr. Clouden dreams of a new republic nourished by what he says could be a boom in things like tourism and international ship registry, many of his fellow Carriacouans seem to have less exalted aspirations.
"I am one of those people who believe that we have to have a little patience," said Cuthbert Snagg, a shirtless 32-year-old who was repairing the small boats he rents to the occasional tourist. "It is true that Grenada has neglected us, but we should focus on getting a few basics, like running water and some paved roads. Otherwise, I am afraid people will be expecting much too much too soon."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Trade has never been subjected to customs here, and what the Grenadians are trying to do to us is nothing short of the kind of ethnic discrimination that many have suffered from in your country," said Anselm B. Clouden, the Patrick Henry of a growing dispute between Carriacou and Grenada. (Howard W. French/The New York Times)
 
Maps show location of Carriacou.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GRENADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GRENADA GRENADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); TAXATION TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); POLITICS (64%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SPICE FARMING (55%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; CLOUDEN, ANSELM

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



196 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Moynihan Is Moving to Halve 1993 Tax Increase

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, whose committee will begin work this week on President Clinton's economic plan, said today that under the measure he was contemplating wealthy taxpayers would face only half the tax increase proposed by the President this year, with the full increase not effective until 1994.
"It doesn't feel right to anybody" to make the tax increases retroactive to Jan. 1, Mr. Moynihan said, so he would make the new rates effective on July 1. 
 That would not mean that income earned or deductions claimed in the first half of the year would be treated differently for tax purposes from those in the second half. Rather, the total increase in taxes due next April would be only half as large.
"That's our stimulus package," he added, referring to the fact that many economists have said that a steep tax increase this year would inhibit the economic recovery.
Mr. Moynihan, a New York Democrat, is chairman of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over all tax legislation and about half the spending measures in the President's package. He was interviewed on the ABC News program "This Week."
At the White House this morning, President Clinton met with his top economic advisers and said later, "We're going to stick with the basic principles of the plan."
His budget director, Leon E. Panetta, told reporters at the White House that those principles involved $500 billion in deficit reduction over five years, with three-quarters of the new taxes borne by taxpayers "at the upper-income bracket." More revenue would be raised from a tax on fuels based on the amount of heat they produce as measured in British thermal units, or B.T.U.'s. There is "flexibility to negotiate within those principles," Mr. Panetta said.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said that the fuel tax would be modified and that the changes would be "matched with further spending cuts." Mr. Bentsen appeared on the CBS News program "Face the Nation."
As proposed by President Clinton and approved by the House of Representatives last month, the top tax rate, now 31 percent, would rise to 36 percent for couples with incomes between $140,000 and $250,000 and for individuals with incomes between $115,000 and $125,000. For couples with incomes above $250,000 and single taxpayers with incomes above $125,000, the top rate would be 39.6 percent.
Under Mr. Moynihan's plan, apparently the top rates in 1993 would be 33.5 percent and 35.3 percent, and the full increase would be effective in 1994.
A Congressional budget official said the change would lower revenues by less than $10 billion in the 1994 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1 and is the first year of Mr. Clinton's five-year economic plan.
 
Spending Cuts Expected
 That would presumably be offset by spending cuts, especially in Medicare.
Mr. Moynihan said that he and the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, planned to meet with Mr. Clinton and other officials on Monday to work on the details.
Mr. Moynihan said he was prepared to use unorthodox parliamentary maneuvers to get his bill to the floor of the Senate if he could not win a majority in the Finance Committee, but he said he did not expect that such a step would be necessary.
The Democrats' majority on the committee is only 11 to 9, and one Democrat, David L. Boren of Oklahoma, said this weekend that he could not support legislation that contained a fuel tax based on B.T.U.'s.
Mr. Boren's public statements are often contradictory, and it is impossible to pin down exactly where he stands. After expressing opposition to the Clinton budget for weeks, he declared last weekend that he and the Administration were close to agreement on a measure he could support.
Mr. Bentsen said this about Mr. Boren today: "He has said many things about this that can have different interpretations, but I would hope that when we finally get this package together, he will be supportive of it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (68%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; GAS (FUEL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FUEL TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



197 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: The Homeland;
High Hopes, and Stakes, For China's Boat People

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 6

 BODY:
The desperate risks that Chinese boat people take to get to the United States, even jumping into the ocean to swim to shore, reflect the burden of the trust that has been placed in them by friends and family.
Very few Chinese can afford the thousands of dollars demanded by the "snakeheads," or smugglers. So those who yearn for a better life in the United States borrow from relatives, friends and even neighbors. 
 They may carry with them an entire village's hopes for a better future, for if the migrant prospers in the United States he will send back money and help others migrate as well. On the other hand, if he is caught and sent back, he has not only humiliated himself but wasted the savings of those who bet their money on him.
Why do they go?
Some want more political or religious freedom, or to escape from the tyranny of the village Communist Party secretary, but the most powerful force usually appears to be the yearning for a better life.
Many of the boat people are peasants, especially young men. The per capita income for peasants in China is only about $125 a year, and land is so scarce that most can look forward to farming only a fraction of an acre.
Most of the migrants come from Fujian province, a hilly coastal region opposite Taiwan. The boldest people of Fujian have been emigrating since the 17th century, when the first waves began sailing for Taiwan and Southeast Asia.
Even today, Fujianese dialects are common in Singapore and Hong Kong, and the southern Fujianese dialect is dominant in Taiwan. President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan and Corazon Aquino, the former president of the Philippines, are among the many overseas Chinese who traces their roots to Fujian.
Today Fujian is richer than many other parts of China, but it is still clear to any Fujianese peasant that those who migrate do better than those who stay behind.
 
Unrealistic Expectations
 The yearning to flee is compounded by unrealistic expectations about what life abroad can offer. The snakeheads tell prospective migrants that ship conditions will be comfortable and the journey easy, that it is simple to make a fortune in Meiguo, "the beautiful country," as the United States is called in Chinese.
The phenomenon of the boat people is a consequence of the economic liberalization in China, and of the Communist Party's diminishing control over the population.
Private boats used to be rare, wealth was difficult to hide, and peasants were stuck in their own villages. But these days, the economic boom and loosening of Government policies have resulted in a profusion of private boats and far greater mobility for peasants.
No one notices or complains if a peasant disappears from his village, or if a worker resigns from his factory job. And the Fujian coastline is dotted with boats that since the early 1980's have done a thriving business in smuggling goods from Taiwan and Hong Kong.
 
Boom in Smuggling
 Smuggling takes place on a huge scale -- more than 90 percent of the videocassette recorders sold in China are smuggled in -- and has resulted in growing corruption among the police. It has also led to the emergence of Mafia-style criminal gangs that have contacts in Taiwan and in Chinatowns in the United States and Hong Kong.
Starting in the late 1980's, the snakeheads began to smuggle Fujianese peasants into Taiwan, and that business is still going strong. But in the last few years, the boom has been in the smuggling of Fujian peasants to the United States. Taiwanese ships are usually used, partly because individual mainlanders still have mostly fishing boats rather than ocean-going cargo ships.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (94%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (94%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; GOLDEN VENTURE (FREIGHTER); SMUGGLING; ILLEGAL ALIENS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES SMUGGLING (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); POLITICS (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



198 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Press Notes;
Between the Idea of a CNNNewspaper Alliance and the Reality Falls the Shadow of Ted Turner

BYLINE: By William Glaberson

 BODY:
SOMETIMES in business you come this close to the dream deal.
That is what happened last week to Leland Schwartz, 44, the founder, editor and publisher of States News Service in Washington. Mr. Schwartz's small news organization supplies news reports from the capital to some 300 newspapers around the country. 
 Three years ago, States added to its offerings an unusual newspaper, The Latest News, which promotes itself as the nation's first hourly newspaper. Assembled in Washington and sent by computer to local print sites, it comes out every hour, from 4 P.M. to 9 P.M., at airports in New York, Washington and Boston.
Distributed to airline shuttle passengers, The Latest News has established a modest niche by printing wire-service updates on national and international developments for people who, Mr. Schwartz said, are lost in the "news blackout" of business travel. Mr. Schwartz says the newspaper has made a modest amount of money with advertisers like BMW and others that aim at the affluent audience of 5,000 shuttle customers daily.
Mr. Schwartz said that he recently had a "once in a lifetime" idea: turn Cable News Networks' constant flow of television reports into print. He said that he convinced midlevel CNN executives that the potential was unlimited. CNN, owned by the Turner Broadcasting System, and States were soon dreaming about a possible $50 million business, with vending machines nationwide dispensing The CNN/Latest News.
Last week, reality hit. "CNN told us Ted Turner said he did not want to be in the newspaper business," a shaken Mr. Schwartz said on Friday.
A spokesman for Mr. Turner said that there had been some miscommunication about the possibilities. "This is one of those many discussions," the spokesman said, "that take place in a company like Turner."
End of dream deal.
The Latest News will continue, Mr. Schwartz said, but the newspaper will never be what it almost was.
"Losing what we thought was a magic CNN deal," Mr. Schwartz said, "is crushing news to us."
 
Publishers Critical of Clinton
Newspaper publishers sometimes have special antennas about the business climate. If that holds true, President Clinton has much to worry about.
A survey of newspaper publishers and their business employees at newspapers across the country found that they were very cranky about the new Administration. The survey of more than 150 newspaper business executives is to be released this morning by Kenneth T. Berents, a newspaper securities analyst at Wheat, First Securities Inc. in Richmond. He conducted the survey, he said, because "the newspaper industry is a barometer of our economy."
More than 70 percent of those surveyed said consumer confidence had diminished as a result of the President's economic policies. More than 70 percent said Mr. Clinton's proposals would not give the economy a lift, while 69 percent said the Administration was anti-business. And 44.8 percent of the publishers said they had lowered their profit outlook for next year.
 
Association Head Draws Fire
Cathleen P. Black, 49, the marketing-oriented former publisher of USA Today, is the first president of the Newspaper Association of America, the year-old trade organization of the country's newspaper publishers. And she does draw ink.
This spring, her old mentor, Allen H. Neuharth, the USA Today founder, made waves among newspaper people when he went after Ms. Black in print, criticizing her stewardship of the organization. The N.A.A. was formed last June in a merger of the American Newspaper Publishers Association and six other trade groups.
The new organization's leaders, Mr. Neuharth wrote in his USA Today column, are "promotion-oriented hucksters and lobbyists." Ms. Black responded that Mr. Neuharth was taking some of her comments on marketing out of context. "Shame on you," she wrote in response in the pages of the newspaper where they once worked together.
Ms. Black is now the subject of a new war of words. The topic: how much Ms. Black earns at the association and whether she is worth it. A trade magazine, Newspapers & Technology, recently ran an excerpt of a book about USA Today, "The USA Today Way," by John K. Hartman, a journalism professor at Central Michigan University.
Mr. Hartman wrote that Ms. Black is earning $1 million a year as the chief of the N.A.A., "more than what all but a handful of newspaper company C.E.O.'s make." He suggested that under Ms. Black's leadership, the organization, with an annual budget of $32 million, had not demonstrated an ability to help newspapers with their business problems.
One of Ms. Black's top deputies, James E. Donahue, lambasted the trade publication in a letter, saying "you should have checked the facts." Ms. Black's salary is $600,000, not $1 million, Mr. Donahue wrote.
Mr. Hartman responded by challenging the trade organization to disclose Ms. Black's total compensation, including benefits and perks.
Last week, the organization's spokeswoman, Nancy Jones, said Ms. Black's total compensation from the organization for fiscal year 1991-1992, when she was president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, the N.A.A.'s predecessor, was $893,485, including salary and compensation for items like stock options, which Ms. Black lost when she left USA Today. Ms. Black was also paid $83,333 by USA Today that year, raising her total annual compensation to at least $976,818.
In the fiscal year that ended May 30, Ms. Black's total compensation from the N.A.A. was about $780,000, Ms. Jones said.
The organization's "board clearly believes Cathie Black was worth this," Ms. Jones said. "They're the ones who hired her and set the terms of the agreement."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TBS (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN); LATEST NEWS, THE (NEWSPAPER) CABLE NEWS NETWORK LP (92%); WHEAT FIRST SECURITIES INC (61%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN); LATEST NEWS, THE (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); AIRLINES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (60%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; SCHWARTZ, LELAND BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



199 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Magazines Pressed to Change Looks

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
For a man who makes his living creating the looks of new magazines and redesigning the appearance of old ones, Roger Black sounds suspiciously like a print person.
"The one thing that is going to save magazines is writing; it isn't visuals," said Mr. Black, a leading art director who has recently been involved in redesigns of Newsweek, Premiere, Esquire, Town & Country and Harper's Bazaar and in the start-ups of Esquire Gentleman, Smart Money and Out. 
 "The writer sitting down and writing has direct contact with the reader," said Mr. Black, a cheery man with a puckish smile. "The reader sits down. It's a great piece. It's the reader and the writer. And if you, the art director, forget that, you're cooked."
Art directors have become a major force in the magazine world. When advertising began to decline in 1990 and friendly competition turned into the survival of the fittest, publishers tried to make their magazines more attractive by redesigning covers, modernizing logos and jazzing up the overall appearance.
 
Redesign Doesn't Rescue Some
 Some, like HG, despite attractive redesigns, just didn't make it and ceased publication. Others, like Time, are still reinventing themselves.
By the time the recession hit, Mr. Black, 44, had already established himself in Europe as well as in the United States. He began his career at Rolling Stone, where he was the art director from 1976 to 1978, and moved on to The New York Times and Newsweek. In 1987, he formed Roger Black Inc., an editorial design firm that has studios in New York and Milan and is about to open one in Dusseldorf.
"While New York may be the center of the publishing universe, there are a lot of people in Milan and Hamburg and Sao Paulo who really don't care," Mr. Black said.
Mr. Black has also been under contract to Hearst Magazines for two and a half years as a general design consultant for all its magazines.
His love of print serves him. Editors love Mr. Black because he thinks the way they do.
 
'He's a Collaborator'
 "What appealed to me about Roger was that he really interviewed me," said Susan Lyne, editor and publications director of Premiere, which will introduce its redesign in the fall. "He wanted to know why I was interested in doing a redesign, what I wanted to accomplish, who our audience was and what they looked to the magazine for. He's not coming at it with, 'I have this brilliant idea; I see what this magazine should be.' He's a collaborator, not an artiste."
Richard M. Smith, president and editor in chief of Newsweek, first worked with Mr. Black in 1985, when the magazine went through its first major redesign.
"The greatest thing about Roger as a designer is that he is a smart, editorially minded person," Mr. Smith said. "He quickly grasps what a magazine is all about and what it is trying to convey to its readers. Roger doesn't only have one arrow in his quiver. He really thinks like an editor in using design elements that really support the relationship with the reader."
It is one thing to redesign eye-catching magazines like Esquire and hip ones like Out, but how about old, gray Foreign Affairs, the bimonthly publication of the Council on Foreign Relations?
 
 
The Post-Cold War Look
 James F. Hoge Jr., the new editor, said he felt that with the passing of the cold war, the magazine had to reflect the sea change in international relations, not only in its text but in its design. He called in Mr. Black.
"The first intent is just to make a better magazine that is more in tune with the times, and get deeper readership from its current subscribers," Mr. Hoge said.
The redesigned magazine, which makes its debut this summer, has a glossier cover and a redesigned logo. It will introduce photographs and -- at Mr. Black's insistence -- an old typeface called Caslon, which is intended to make the magazine more readable.
"The fun thing with Foreign Affairs was to go all the way back and look at its history, realize that this is a reading magazine -- not an infopopping magazine -- for people who want a real background in text issues," he said. "So the most important thing was to make the type legible."
 
 
Quiet and Subtle
 Mr. Black said that design should be done quietly, subtly and without too much fanfare.
"I don't like face-lifting," he said. "I would rather be a nutritionist."
Mr. Black deplores what he calls the celebrity trap. Celebrities on covers sell magazines at the newsstand, and many advertising agencies, he said, use newsstand sales as a gauge of "hotness." Most magazines, however, mainly make their sales through subscriptions, and covers are just not that important.
"Increasingly P.R. people and agents are calling the shots on celebrity covers," he said. "They will only allow their movie-star clients to show the good side of their faces, so all the photos look alike. They will say, 'My client has been too much of a bimbo lately; we now want her in glasses reading a book.' Many P.R. people insist on review of the pictures before they are published."
Mr. Black is also an apostle of restlessness.
"I tell all art directors to start looking for a job after two years," he said. "Never stay more than five years. You stop seeing what's wrong."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger Black, a magazine art director, counts among his many redesigns a new image for Foreign Affairs. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS333995 FLUID POWER CYLINDER & ACTUATOR MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3593 FLUID POWER CYLINDERS & ACTUATORS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (82%); BLACK INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; DESIGN WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE; BLACK, ROGER CRAIG R SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



200 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Don't Sacrifice the Needy Workers

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has agreed to shrink the proposed energy tax in order to push its economic plan through the Senate. That's an acceptable, though regrettable, compromise. But it's unacceptable that the Administration seems willing to make up for much of the lost revenue by cutting back its proposed tax credit for low-paid workers.
Such reneging would trash President Clinton's lofty pledge, repeated as recently as last week, that his budget would guarantee full-time workers enough money to bring their families out of poverty. Political compromises are fine, but not when they victimize America's poor. 
 Mr. Clinton has vowed to "make work pay" at least to the extent of lifting workers out of poverty. Now work doesn't pay for minimum-wage workers. A parent with two children working full time at $4.25 an hour earns less than $9,000 a year, more than $5,000 below the poverty line. The gap would widen under the President's original plan because he would impose an energy tax whose costs would, in effect, push the poverty line up about $200 a year.
President Clinton proposed three ways to close the gap: a higher earned-income tax credit -- which provides cash to low-paid workers -- more food stamps and increased subsidies for home heating. The combination would, roughly, bring most families with a full-time worker close to the poverty line.
There are two reasons why Congress ought not scale back the proposed tax credit substantially when it cuts the energy tax.
Large families -- those with two or more children -- need almost every penny of the Clinton tax credit to escape poverty even if energy taxes aren't raised. There's little leeway to save money by reducing their credit.
Nor is the Senate about to raise food stamps and energy assistance -- the other two prongs of Mr. Clinton's anti-poverty strategy. So if it rips away a sizable part of the tax credit, the package would deliver an unconscionable blow to needy families.
Beyond that, cutting back the tax credit is shortsighted. Over time, the value of the minimum wage -- the amount of food and clothing that $4.25 will buy -- is diminished by inflation. The wisest way to combat that erosion is to combine tax credits with a slightly higher minimum wage that would be indexed to offset inflation. But if Congress ratchets down the tax credit this year, it will be forced to raise the minimum wage even more next year.
The Clinton Administration has wisely put off deciding about raising the minimum wage until next year. It feared discouraging hiring while the economy was still sluggish; and it didn't want to alienate small employers, whose support it desperately needs to push the Administration's economic plan and health care reform through Congress.
Eventually, however, the Administration will propose higher minimum wages, so it makes sense to keep the hike small by boosting the credit as high as financially prudent.
The best budget would include the original $70 billion hike in energy taxes proposed by Mr. Clinton. But that won't happen given strong political opposition. It's the responsibility of Mr. Clinton -- and Congress -- to make sure they don't make America's lowest-paid workers pay for this political expediency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EDITORIALS; ENERGY AND POWER; TAX CREDITS; EXCISE TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILD LABOR (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); EXCISE TAX (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); EROSION CONTROL (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

 
