

201 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: California Challenges Deal on Nonprofit Hospital

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
In the latest strong objection by a state to a deal between nonprofit and for-profit health care companies, the California Attorney General yesterday accused the directors of a big San Diego hospital chain of undervaluing their business by $100 million to $200 million in a joint venture with the Columbia-HCA Healthcare Corporation.
The Attorney General, Daniel E. Lungren, threatened in a letter to Sharp Healthcare to hold the Sharp directors "personally liable" for that amount. He said he would open an investigation of the Sharp-Columbia deal. California law requires that the sale proceeds of a nonprofit health corporation be turned over to a charitable foundation to serve public health needs. 
 Columbia and Sharp said last December that they had agreed to form a 50-50 partnership that would add four hospitals with 1,263 beds to the Columbia chain. At the time, the price was not disclosed.
Mr. Lungren, who has jurisdiction over sales of nonprofit hospitals, said Columbia was paying $202 million for its half of the Sharp assets. He said two other for-profit hospital chains had offered much more: the Tenet Healthcare Corporation had offered $311 million, he said, and Ornda Healthcorp had offered more than $402 million.
James Schwartz, a California Deputy Attorney General, said the Tenet and Ornda offers, which would have valued the Sharp assets at $622 million to $804 million, were comparable to the Columbia-Sharp deal.
Industry analysts, however, have praised the Columbia-Sharp joint venture. Kenneth S. Abramowitz of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company said yesterday that Sharp was right to take less money to deal with Columbia because Sharp was under financial pressure from California's powerful managed care companies.
"Columbia is a big gorilla and Tenet is a little gorilla," he said. "In the competitive future environment you want to sell out to the strongest company you can, with the highest chance of doing well."
Investment bankers said the action in California, after related interventions by state officials in Michigan and Massachusetts, could have a chilling effect on joint ventures across the country between for-profit hospital chains and attractive nonprofit hospitals at a time when there has been a wave of such deals.
The move by the California Attorney General would "stop Columbia's bid in its tracks," said Dan Cain, a New York investment banker who specializes in health care deals and is advising a hospital involved in the San Diego deal through a lease arrangement with Sharp.
The California action and an injunction against a joint venture in Michigan, Mr. Cain said, raise the "question of whether this 50-50 model is going to survive the scrutiny of the marketplace -- not because it is not financially valid but because it is so misunderstood by regulators."
A state court in Michigan ruled in September that a joint venture announced by Columbia-HCA and the Michigan Capital Medical Center in Lansing violated the state's nonprofit corporations law. The Michigan judge, James R. Giddings, issued an injunction blocking the venture.
Attorney General Frank J. Kelley, who requested the injunction, charged that the venture was an illegal attempt to commingle the nonprofit hospital's assets with those of Columbia-HCA.
In Massachusetts, Attorney General Scott Harshbarger first questioned and then approved the price that Columbia-HCA paid for an 80 percent stake in the Metrowest Medical Center. But he is still reviewing the mission and control of a community foundation that will get the $30 million in proceeds.
Consumer advocates who questioned the deal said they did not believe that the directors of Metrowest would be given control of the foundation.
"The Attorney General's action in Massachusetts takes away economic incentives to hospital trustees to sell a profitable facility," Mr. Cain, the investment banker, said.
In a third case involving Columbia-HCA, Betty Montgomery, the Ohio Attorney General, is seeking to overturn an agreement by the big hospital chain to take over most of the business of Ohio Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a mutual insurance company that was once a nonprofit entity.
Jackie Hill, a spokeswoman for Sharp Healthcare, said, "We disagree with the assessment and characterizations of the Attorney General" in the letter. She said the Sharp board had acted in "a thorough and responsible manner in exercising its fiduciary responsibilities."
Susan Whitten, a spokeswoman for Columbia-HCA in San Diego, said Columbia remained committed "to working out the transaction with Sharp." She said Columbia would answer any questions raised by the Attorney General's office.
A spokeswoman for Tenet Healthcare, Christi Sulzbach, said the different interpretations by the various attorneys general suggested a need for "Federal legislation that would review a change of ownership any time a not-for-profit" hospital "changed a substantial portion of its ownership."
Mr. Abramowitz of Bernstein said a delay in the San Diego deal would not be a serious business issue for Columbia, which has $25 billion in annual revenues, but he added. "If every single deal was challenged and delayed, that would be material."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (91%); THC (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (91%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (91%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (82%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (82%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA-HCA HEALTHCARE CORP; SHARP HEALTHCARE SYSTEM HCA HOLDINGS INC (91%); TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (82%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); SHARP HEALTHCARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA-HCA HEALTHCARE CORP; SHARP HEALTHCARE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH HOSPITALS (94%); HEALTH CARE (94%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); CHARITIES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); JURISDICTION (67%); INJUNCTIONS (62%); INVESTMENT BANKING (61%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; LUNGREN, DANIEL E (ATTY GEN) DANIEL E LUNGREN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



202 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Rise to Records At End of Strong Week
Stocks rose to records amid prospects for growing profits and low inflation, giving the Dow Jones industrial average its best weekly gain in more than three months.
 The Dow rose 13.78, to 6,219.82, bouncing back after falling almost 25 points. The average rose 3.29 percent for the week and the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index, which rose 3.17 to close at 730.82, was up 3.84 percent for the last five days. [Page 39.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities moved lower in a shortened session, as investors took profits following Thursday's rally. Prices had surged on Thursday after an auction of new 30-year bonds that was better than expected. The bond's yield fell to 6.50 percent, down from 6.68 last week. [39.]
 
Growth Predicted in Canada
Canada's central bank reduced rates for the 20th time in 18 months, dropping the prime rate to 4.75 percent, the lowest it has been since 1956. And the Government reported that unemployment rose to 10 percent in October. Still, experts say that Government budget-cutting and other measures leave the economy poised for a recovery, perhaps as early as next year. [37.]
 
Mexico and U.S. Sign Satellite Pact
Mexico and the United States have agreed that at least when it comes to satellite television transmission, the 2,000-mile border between the two countries should not be a barrier. Reed E. Hundt, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and Javier Lozano Alarcon, subsecretary of the Mexican communications ministry, signed an agreement that gives each country broad access to the other's rapidly growing direct- to-home television market. [36.]
 
Inquiry Into Miami Bond Deals
In Miami, shaken by fiscal troubles and political scandals, Federal officials are investigating whether municipal bond proceeds were used to disguise budget deficits. The Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to determine whether Miami officials misled bond buyers by failing to accurately disclose the city's financial condition in two bond offerings last year. [1.]
 
Profits Up at Japanese Auto Makers
A sharp fall in the value of the yen in the last year has been providing an earnings windfall to Japan's major automobile companies. Owing largely to currency fluctuations, Toyota reported that net income for the first half of its fiscal year more than quadrupled as automobile exports surged. Nissan, meanwhile, recorded a first-half profit for the first time in five years. [36.]
 
VW President May Face Charges
Prosecutors in Germany are expected to file criminal charges of industrial spying against Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, the president of Volkswagen, in connection with his departure from General Motors in 1993. Volkswagen executives and a lawyer for Mr. Lopez said that they expected prosecutors to file charges before the end of this month. [36.]
 
Glitch Stalls AT&T Internet Service
A computer glitch at AT&T's Worldnet Internet access service prevented more than 200,000 customers from receiving electronic messages for more than a day. [45.]
 
Deal for New York Hospital
New York City's public hospital agency voted to allow a for-profit hospital management company in Pennsylvania, Primary Health Systems, to operate Coney Island Hospital. The deal -- a 99-year lease with an option to renew for another 99 years -- is the first time a public hospital in the city has been turned over to private hands. [25.]
 
Dollar Continues Its Fall
The dollar weakened further on concerns that Japan and the United States wanted a stronger yen, despite assurances from Japanese officials that their foreign exchange policy remained unchanged. Traders were skeptical because the backtracking came a day after the dollar's plunge. Many suspected the statements were an attempt to slow the dollar's fall. Their doubts were increased by a lack of comment from United States officials supporting the dollar. The dollar fell to 111.50 yen from 111.60 yen on Thursday. [38.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,219.82 up 13.78
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.50% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 111.50 yen down 0.10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); PRICES OF TREASURY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CURRENCIES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); BOND ISSUES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); POLITICS (62%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (62%); JAPANESE YEN (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (60%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



203 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International
 
U.N. CALL FOR FORCE FOR ZAIRE
 
As evidence of a colossal crisis in Central Africa mounted, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the United Nations Secretary General, called for the dispatch of outside military forces to aid some million refugees. 1
 
CYCLONE TOLL GROWS IN INDIA
 
The cyclone that rampaged across India's southeast coast this week killed at least 1,000 people, officials said, as they began an emergency airlift of food and medicine to half a million victims of floods. 1
 
NEW U.S. BASE IN SAUDI ARABIA
 
After two bombings in a year, the bulk of American troops in Saudi Arabia has fled for the sands and safety of Al Kharj, which has no water, fuel, or electricity of its own, only splendid isolation. 3
 
SERB ARMY CHIEF OUSTED
 
The newly elected Bosnian Serb President, Biljana Plavsic, announced that she had dismissed Gen. Ratko Mladic, the military commander indicted for directing war atrocities. 6
 
THE NEW RUSSIAN TRADERS
 
An estimated 10 million Russians are making their living flying between Turkey, southern Europe, and China, buying low-quality goods to resell in the huge street markets of the former Soviet Union. 1
 
THE RACE TO LEAD PAKISTAN
 
Imran Khan, a former cricket captain and the leader of Pakistan's newest political party, is drawing crowds in his campaign to replace the dismissed Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto. 8
 
DAMAGE CONTROL IN TAIWAN
 
The Taiwan ruling party's efforts to influence American policy by fostering donations to the Democratic Party seems to have backfired, and critics fear they have done serious harm to Taiwan's image. 8
 
MOVE TO TRIM BUDGET IN JAPAN
 
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto pledged to appoint a blue-ribbon commission this month as the first step toward a major streamlining of the Government and deregulation of the economy. 8
 
Roquebrune-Cap-Martin Journal: Mr. Mobutu's little villa. 4
 
National
 
CLINTON GETS STARTED
 
Moving swiftly to begin his second term, President Clinton said he had asked Republican leaders of Congress to meet with him to begin negotiations on balancing the Federal budget and on campaign-finance restrictions. 1
 
ASSESSING THE PRESIDENT
 
News analysis: Fresh from one of the great triumphs of his life, Bill Clinton avoided any suggestion of gloating in his post-election news conference. At times, he sounded almost mellow. 1
 
MAN IN THE NEWS
 
Erskine Bowles, accustomed to being in the background, will be front and center in one of the most visible, high-pressure jobs in the country as the White House chief of staff. 1
 
SECOND THOUGHTS IN MIAMI
 
Just last summer Miami turned 100 years old, a cause for celebration, self-congratulation and civic pride. But by this Election Day the mood had turned so somber that some voters signed petitions to abolish their city. 1
 
NEW TROUBLE FOR REYNOLDS
 
Former Congressman Mel Reynolds fell further from grace into disgrace as he and his wife were indicted on 16 counts of fraud involving their personal and campaign finances. 9
 
CADETS BREAK HAIRCUT RULE
 
Trying to fit in where they were once not welcome, three female cadets at The Citadel shaved each other's heads to try to make their hair as short as the men's. But they ended up being punished. 9
 
MORE TROOPS TO BOSNIA?
 
President Clinton said he was considering sending more American troops to Bosnia next year, acknowledging something many of his aides have said before. 11
 
OREGON ELECTION GOES TO G.O.P.
 
Absentee ballots counted in Oregon assured the Republicans of a 55-to-45 majority in the Senate next year, a net gain of two seats. 13
 
CZECHS ORDER INQUIRY
 
The Czech Defense Ministry has ordered an investigation of whether the Government failed to provide Czech troops with adequate chemical protection equipment in the Persian Gulf war. 9
 
Metro Report
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 17-21, 24
 
John O'Hara's fans. 17
 
The composer as painter. 20
 
Theater: "Three Sisters." 17
 
Music: San Francisco Symphony. 17
 
"Les Contes d'Hoffmann." 24
 
Dance: "Tango X 2." 20
 
Television: A World War I series. 21
 
Sports 30-34
 
Columns: Rhoden on the Holyfield-Tyson fight 31
 
Obituaries 52 Frank Kurtz, World War II hero
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
The worst gulf war ailment.
 
Care for special education.
 
The MCI merger and consumers.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: North's army falls again.
 
Russell Baker: Sport marches on.
 
Tom Brokaw: Escapism is letting us down.
 
Lisa Schiffren: Nixon's G.O.P. will always be a loser.
 
Stephen Handelman: Can Russia's mafia be broken?
 
Bridge 20
 
Crossword 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (65%); PETITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); ERSKINE BOWLES (53%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



204 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Corruption and Money Woes Divide and Anger Miamians

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 8

 BODY:
Just last summer this city turned 100 years old, a cause for celebration, self-congratulation and civic pride. But by this Election Day the mood had turned so somber that at some polling places voters signed petitions to abolish their city.
"You would think that for the taxes we're paying, we'd get better services," said Louis Wechsler, a homeowners association president in the Coconut Grove section who supports the movement to cede Miami's rule to the Dade County government. "But there is so much graft and corruption we're not getting those services." 
 The anti-cityhood drive is just starting, but it underscores a striking reversal of fortune for a city that has billed itself as the "gateway to the Americas" with its bustling international commerce and cosmopolitan flavor.
Along with Federal investigations of fraud and corruption at the highest levels of municipal government, mismanagement of the city's finances has left residents disgusted and seething.
Stunned by the sudden disclosure of a huge budget deficit, Miami residents now face the prospect of paying for the shortfall with higher fees for a wide range of services, from garbage collection to the use of marinas.
Financial analysts say that the fiscal problems pose a formidable challenge for the city, which has about 350,000 residents, but that they can be fixed with belt-tightening and supervision. But the budget disarray and accompanying political scandal have exposed racial and philosophical divisions within Miami that may take longer to mend.
Some critics of Federal investigators have used charged terms like "lynching" to characterize the investigation of the officials, most of whom are black or Hispanic. Some of those officials have sought support in their own ethnic communities.
While those behind the drive to disband Miami's city government portray it as an effort to lower taxes, skeptics say it reflects doubts among whites about the competence of a city government largely run by members of ethnic and foreign-born minorities.
"This has a lot to do with the resentment and disdain that some people feel against Cuban-Americans," said Tomas Regalado, a recently elected member of Miami's City Commission. "They can't stand the power we have acquired. They can't fight us economically, so they have to go after us politically."
The divisions do not bode well for restoring Miami's solvency, said Merrett R. Stierheim, a tourism executive here and a former Dade County manager who is pitching in as acting city manager on an emergency basis. His success as a troubleshooter, he said, depends on the city's ability to come together to support a recovery plan.
"The plan can work, but people with other agendas -- political demagogues, those who now would like to abolish the city -- could undermine it, derail it or make it very difficult to achieve," he said. "Sometimes, unfortunately, that's endemic in Miami."
The fiscal troubles can be traced largely to miscalculations about revenue and expenses, loose financial controls and the commingling of funds, the kinds of problems that have afflicted other cities.
A more serious problem, however, is that the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether municipal bond proceeds were used to disguise budget deficits by paying for operating expenses rather than for the stated purposes of meeting pension obligations and acquiring a building. The commission is also seeking to determine whether Miami officials misled bond buyers by failing to disclose the city's financial condition accurately in two bond offerings last year.
Miami's fiscal troubles are compounded by a widening corruption scandal being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Although the tales of graft and shakedowns have no apparent connection to the budget deficit, some of the principals are the same.
They are Cesar Odio, Miami's Cuban-born chief executive and administrator since 1985; the assistant city manager, Manohar Surana, a native of India, and Miller Dawkins, a black City Commissioner. All resigned in August and September to face Federal corruption charges that include bribery, embezzlement and witness tampering.
Mr. Dawkins, 71, a member of the City Commission for 15 years, has already pleaded guilty to bribery charges and awaits sentencing in January. Mr. Surana, who cooperated with investigators and provided evidence against the others, has agreed to plead guilty to Federal charges arising from the scandal.
The corruption inquiry by the F.B.I. and the United States Attorney's Office here has produced ample tales of intrigue. Friends and colleagues are said to have ensnared each other with surreptitious recordings. Kickback and cover-up schemes were hatched in secret meetings and on scraps of paper that were later burned or shredded, court documents say.
The public corruption case began in March 1995, when Mr. Surana and Mr. Dawkins agreed to propose a way to "share profits" on $20 million in contracts that the Unisys Corporation, a computer company, was negotiating with the city, the court papers say. The contracts required City Commission approval, and court papers say Unisys was asked to pay bribes to insure a favorable vote on the contracts. Instead, company officials went to the authorities.
By March, Mr. Surana was cooperating by wearing a wire for the F.B.I. In recorded conversations, prosecutors say, Mr. Surana, Mr. Dawkins and Howard Gary, a black former city manager whose bond underwriting company does work with both the city and Dade County, discussed what to do with the money Unisys paid so they would avoid leaving a trail of bribes. In July, Mr. Gary also became a Government informer.
Mr. Dawkins accepted $25,000 from Unisys in March and $75,000 in July. For this last payment, the commissioner took $5,000 in cash and told Mr. Gary to invest the rest. He then asked Mr. Surana to seek another $100,000 from the company.
While cooperating with investigators, Mr. Surana built the case against Mr. Odio between June and August. The two of them and a lobbyist, Jorge L. de Cardenas, conspired to siphon money from a city contract with a company that provided health insurance for municipal employees, a criminal complaint says.
In the summer, Mr. Odio said he was having problems living on his $116,000 annual salary, according to court papers, and he asked Mr. Surana for "any way" he "could get more money." Overcoming his initial reluctance, Mr. Odio accepted an advance of $3,000.
Mr. Odio has claimed that he was entrapped and has pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy, embezzlement and witness tampering. Mr. Cardenas has pleaded not guilty as well. He has also tried to rally support from Cuban-Americans.
To a limited extent, the F.B.I. investigation has also reached into the Dade County government. Lawyers for Dade County Commissioner James Burke, who heads the committee that oversees bond issues, and Calvin Grigsby, founder of a leading minority-owned municipal-bond company in San Francisco, have confirmed that the F.B.I. is investing their clients for possible bribery in bond transactions.
Mr. Stierheim plans to present to Miami's Commission on Thursday a blueprint on how to close a $68 million deficit in a city budget of $275 million. The plan avoids layoffs but calls for doubling some fees for certain city services, freezing salary increases for city workers for two years and selling public assets.
The city says it can meet its current debt obligations, but bond-rating services have downgraded the city's municipal bonds, which is likely to cost the city more in interest and insurance on future debt.
Mr. Odio has said he was unaware of the budget shortfall because he relied on information provided by Mr. Surana, who supervised finance operations. He has also blamed Federal investigators for not arresting Mr. Surana at once.
But United States Attorney William A. Keefer said the fiscal problems had nothing to do with the "limited, discreet" investigation. "It's convenient for a defendant to look to shift the blame," he said. He also dismissed accusations of racial or ethnic bias. "This was an absolutely neutral investigation," he said.
While Mr. Stierheim attributes the city's fiscal troubles to mismanagement, not graft, the timing of the budget gap and the Federal charges are too much of a coincidence for some residents who say they have no doubt that city money was stolen. For city residents, who have put up with higher taxes than neighboring cities, the scandal is the last straw.
"Where is it? They can't explain where the money is," said Jorge Leon, 45, a Miami resident for 20 years who signed the petition on Tuesday for the city's abolition. "Why should we pay?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tania Lopez-Tzamtzis, a 34-year-old Miami resident, getting Dan Gruber to sign her petition calling for the abolition of the city of Miami. (Andrew Itkoff for the New York Times)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); DADE COUNTY (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ETHICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); CITIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); ETHICS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); SCANDALS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); PETITIONS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ETHNICITY (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



205 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6300 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ELECTION;
Excerpts From Remarks by Clinton at His Post-Election News Conference

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a Washington news conference yesterday by President Clinton, who announced the appointment of Erskine B. Bowles to replace Leon E. Panetta as the White House chief of staff, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription service:
Before I begin, I'd like to ask the Vice President and Leon Panetta and Erskine Bowles to join me up here. No particular order. (Laughter.) 
 Let begin by once again thanking the American people for the honor they have bestowed upon me and the responsibility they have once again placed in my hands. I will work hard over the next four years to uphold their trust, to protect our shared values, and to meet our common challenges.
To do that, I want our Administration to be able to serve the American people as well in the next four years as we have in the past four. I must therefore begin by announcing that Leon Panetta, who has been my chief of staff since 1994, will be resigning to return to California.
I understand why he wants to return home after so many long years and long hours, but that doesn't make it any easier for me to see him go. No one in recent memory has better served the Administration, any administration, or the American people than Leon Panetta, in what is perhaps the most difficult of all the jobs in public service in Washington today.
As a civil rights official, a distinguished member of Congress, an O.M.B. director, Leon Panetta brought his sharp mind and his huge heart to bear on every task he ever undertook. He became my chief of staff at a difficult time. He leaves with a remarkable record: deep reduction in the deficit, millions of new jobs, a strong defense of programs for those in need, including food stamps. All these bear Leon's stamp. . . .
To succeed Leon Panetta, I wanted someone of stature, intellect, dedication, drive and the capacity to do this virtually impossible job, both a manager and a leader. I'm proud to announce that I am naming Erskine Bowles as the next White House chief of staff.
He's combined brilliant business success and dedicated public service. As an investment banker, he recognized that our successes come not just from our big firms but from small and medium-sized ones, entrepreneurs with energy and ideas he worked hard to give the opportunity to start new businesses and to expand the ones they were running.
When I became President, I wanted to transform the Small Business Administration from a political backwater to an engine of economic growth. Erskine Bowles did it beyond my wildest expectations. He revitalized the S.B.A., he doubled the loan volume, he dramatically increased loans to women and minority business owners, even as he cut paperwork and trimmed bureaucracy.
I then asked him to serve as the deputy chief of staff. He was one of those most responsible for bringing focus and direction to our efforts. Quietly, behind the scenes, he led our effort to educate the public on what was at stake in last year's budget fight. Through it all, he became my close friend and trusted adviser.
He returned to North Carolina last year to be with his family, to start a new business and continue his work for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, which he had previously served as president. I know how much Erskine Bowles loves private life. I know that I have asked from him a real sacrifice. . . .
It has become more apparent than ever that our country is moving forward with confidence and vigor toward the 21st century. It has become more apparent than ever since the election that the American people want us to fulfill our responsibilities as Democrats, Republicans and independents second, and Americans first; to set aside our differences and join hands to make the most of this moment of possibility.
That's how we achieved so much at the end of the past Congress. Just think of what happened: historic welfare reform; a minimum-wage increase; dramatic expansion of pension opportunities for people in small businesses; the adoption tax credit; the extension of the Brady bill to cover incidents of domestic violence; the Kennedy-Kassebaum health care reform bill that lets people keep their health insurance as they change jobs or when someone in the family's been sick; an end to the drive-by pregnancies and deliveries, where people are kicked out of the hospital after only 24 hours; help for families with mental health needs, and assistance to Vietnam veterans' children with spina bifida.
All this happened and shows you what we can do if we work together to give our people the tools they need to make the most of their own lives. It's a good sign for America that all parties now say they want to reach common ground. And I want us to forge a partnership to produce results for the American people.
On Tuesday our people voted for the ideas of the vital American center. Now let us make that vital center the place for the vigorous actions to move us into the 21st century.
We should begin with our most pressing challenges: balancing the budget, giving our children the world's best education, opening wide the doors of college to everyone willing to work for them, finishing the job of welfare reform, passing real campaign finance reform.
Nothing is more fundamental than balancing the budget. Our progress has already produced lower interest rates, steady growth, expanded homeownership. Now we must keep our economy growing steady and strong by finishing the job of balancing the budget in a way that truly reflects our values.
I am inviting the bipartisan leadership of Congress to meet with me next week, here at the White House, to discuss how we can develop a plan together to pass a balanced budget and to keep our economy going. I've asked Leon Panetta and O.M.B. Director Frank Raines to coordinate this effort. I want these negotiations to cover a broad range of issues involved in balancing the budget, including strengthening the Medicare Trust Fund, cuts in spending and a tax cut.
I believe our highest priority must be education, especially college opportunities. As I told the American people, we should make the 13th and 14th years of education as universal as high-school diploma is today. So I will work to see to it that this balanced budget includes the education tax cuts I outlined during the campaign, which had very broad and overwhelming support among the American people.
I will also discuss with the Congressional leadership how we can enact bipartisan campaign finance reform as soon as possible. We clearly have a unique moment of opportunity now, when the public and you in the press are focused on this issue. Now is the time to seize it, before the moment fades. The American people will be watching to see whether our deeds match our words. . . .
 
Questions and Answers
Q. The election is over. You do have the support of the American people for a second term. But some questions remain. One of them is, How do you explain the obsession with fund raising, especially from dubious Asian sources? And how do you overcome the image, created by your opponent, that you are a President who cannot be trusted?
A. Let me answer the second question first. I think the American people, since they've been hearing this for five years, took a long, hard look at it, and they measured that against what they saw in terms of the work of this Administration, in terms of the people who were laboring hard to make their lives better, and in terms of the President. And I think they made their judgment that I have worked hard for them, I will keep working hard for them, and that that is my motivation for being here. And I think that they gave me their trust, and I'm going to do my best to be worthy of it.
Now with regard to the contribution issue, the Democratic Party and the Republican Party raised a lot of money under the rules which now exist. The Democratic Party received over a million different contributions in two years. They determined two things. One is that a relatively small number of them -- I don't know exactly what the number is, but quite a small number out of a million -- they should not have taken, and they have returned them.
They also -- the Democratic Party -- said they thought they should have a tighter screen on contributions when they come in, and they've implemented improvements so that they won't receive contributions they shouldn't, if they can determine it, at all. I think that's a good thing. I think both---- I think the Republican party should have the same rules. . . .
I, frankly, am grateful for the support that I have received from them. And so that's-- -- I just want to make that clear. I think that there has been a lot of rather expansive -- I don't mean that you did, Helen -- but there has been a lot of rather disparaging comments made about Asian-Americans, and it's ironic. I found it surprising that our friends on the other side did, because historically they have received more votes from Asian-Americans than we have. . . .
Q. There was also the question of whether the Indonesian contributions may have affected our policy toward----
A. The answer to that is, absolutely not. Indeed, look at the difference in my policy and my predecessor's policy. We changed our policy on arms sales because of East Timor, not to sell small arms. And we co-sponsored the resolution in the United Nations in favor of greater human rights for East Timor. And I'm proud that we did that. So I can tell you categorically that there was no influence. . . .
Q. A lot of questions have been raised, though, about your personal relationship with John Huang, who was the D.N.C. fund-raiser who went out to the Asian-American community and raised some of the money that had to be returned, as well as with the Riady family in Jakarta, James Riady in particular, who came to the White House on several occasions.
What, exactly, was your relationship with John Huang and with the Riady family?
A. I believe the first time I met John Huang -- I believe -- was several years ago in Taiwan, when I was a governor on a trade mission. I believe that is correct. He might have a better memory than I do, but I think that's right.
I met James Riady when he came to Arkansas to live and work, when he was partners -- when his family and his family's business group were partners -- with the Stephens interests in Arkansas, in a bank there. And he and his wife lived there, and I got to know them several years ago. So I have known both James Riady and his wife, and John Huang and his wife, for several years.
And I knew them primarily in the context of my work as Governor; both inside Arkansas, in dealing with the economic issues within the state, and then in my work, as Governor of Arkansas, in going to Taiwan, which parenthetically was one of the---- is one of the biggest purchasers of soybeans, which is a big product in my home state, of any country in the world. So I was there quite often; I think five times during the course of my governorship. And that's how I knew them.
So I had a personal relationship with them that went back several years. And long before there was any politics or even contributions or anything like that involved, I had known them for several years.
Q. Was it a mistake for you to appoint John Huang to a Commerce Department position, Assistant Secretary of Commerce, given the relationship he had with the Lippo conglomerate in Indonesia and his business interests in the past?
A. Well, I believe---- I don't believe so. As soon as---- I don't think so; not as long as the clearances, and the search of all the records and the business disclosures, that they were all appropriate. You know, there are all kinds of standards for that; that anybody who gets an appointment, that they have to be confirmed for, has to meet. And if they were, I wouldn't say so.
I mean, keep in mind, one of the jobs of the Department of Commerce, and perhaps one of the most important jobs now, and one which Ron Brown did very well, is to open new opportunities for American businesses around the world; to open new markets for American businesses, to create jobs by doing that.
And one of the great advantages the United States has, over virtually every other country in the world, is that we have living here in our country, citizens who are from everywhere else and who have business ties and contacts and deep understandings of the cultures and the economies of every other country in the world.
And so, assuming that all the proper disclosures were made and all the proper clearances were had -- I mean, the Government has rules for that -- I would think that that's the sort of person we would be looking for, someone who did have good contacts and could, and did, have a general understanding of international commerce.
 
Bosnia Pullout
Q. Despite your promises earlier to pull out of Bosnia next month, the Pentagon now says that U.S. troops will remain there at least until the end of March. Is it possible you would keep U.S. troops there beyond March as part of a follow-on peacekeeping force if NATO decides they are needed?
A. Well, let me explain, first of all, what the March deadline is. We've already begun moving some people out. . . . You know, we said that the mission, the IFOR [NATO Implementation Force] mission would take about a year. But as the Pentagon can explain in greater detail, specificity, than I, you can't just up and pull people out in one day. There has to be a phase-down, and people have to be brought in to help move out the people that have been there the whole time. So the March date is just the time the last people who are part of a three-and-a-half-month phase-down will leave. . . .
IFOR went there to establish a buffer zone between the ethnic groups and to make sure that during this time elections could be held and basic security could be maintained along the border areas, not to be actually involved in law enforcement. And I think they've done their job very well. I am very pleased with it. I am very pleased with the cooperation between the NATO allies and Russia and the other non-NATO countries, and I think that it has helped the Bosnian peace process to take hold. And we have had elections; a lot has been done.
What NATO has been asked to consider is whether or not since the economic reconstruction has not taken hold as fast as we had hoped, and there's still, obviously, some hard feelings there between the parties, we should consider a smaller, different force that might have a more limited mission than the IFOR mission that NATO would be involved in.
I believe the position I've taken on that is the position that the other NATO leaders have taken, the leaders of the other NATO countries, which is we would like to see the proposed mission, we would like to see what our contribution would be. I want to assess the risks, as I always do, and the possible benefits, and then I will make a judgment. I took a long look at the IFOR mission and we worked very hard to define it in a way that would guarantee the maximum possibility for success and the minimum possibility of danger to our forces. It has worked very well.
Whether we could do this -- as I said all along -- would depend on what the nature of the mission is.
I'm looking forward to the NATO report. I haven't received it yet. When I do, I will tell you exactly what the recommendations are and what my best judgment on them is. It is conceivable that we could participate, but it depends upon exactly what the recommendation is. . . .
Q. You're in the process of choosing your team now for the next Administration. You were criticized four years ago for your failure to go ahead with your stated intentions to choose at least one Republican for a top post. You were criticized for putting too much emphasis on diversity and also for relying too much on friendship. In some cases, friends got into ethical problems. Do you feel you must be more tough-minded this time around?
A. Well, first of all, I think the Cabinet that I've had has done very well. And on average, I believe their tenure of service far exceeds the average tenure of service in the modern era. And I believe that we have proved that you could have diversity as well as excellence, not only in the Cabinet, but in the Federal bench, where I've made the most diverse appointments, in terms of women and minorities, in history, and yet they have the highest ratings from the American Bar Association -- my appointees do -- of any President since the rating system began. So I don't see a conflict between excellence and diversity.
But I would extend that diversity to Republicans as well. I think we ought to try to have a government that can unify the country. And I did want to put, badly want to put, a Republican in the Cabinet last time. I had one in particular in mind, who declined for personal reasons, who I think wanted to serve. And I regret that. . . .
 
First Lady's Role
Q. When you ran for your first term, you talked a lot about the First Lady's role. But we didn't hear so much about it during this run for the re-election. Can you give us a sense of what she'll be doing in the next term? And also I wondered whether you have thought about whether you intend to offer Bob Dole any chance to serve.
Q. Well, let me answer the question about Hillary. I think what the First Lady will do is something that---- I think it will be consistent with what she's been doing, but we have not, frankly, we've been too tired, to talk about it. Yesterday, I'm embarrassed to tell the American people, I actually slept past noon. I was tired. And so we haven't had much chance to talk about it.
But I think that my assumption would be that whatever she did, she would be working on the issues that relate to children and families that she spent most of her life doing. . . .
In terms of anything for Senator Dole to do, I think, to be fair to him, even though I am standing up here on both feet giving this press conference today, after a campaign like this, you need time to decompress, whether you win or whether you lose, and I've been on both sides of this in my life. And he said something I really appreciated when we had our personal conversation on election evening. He said, "You know, after a while, after I get rested up and you do, we'll come by, I'll come by and we'll have a cup of coffee and we'll talk about, just have a visit." And I said I'd really like that.
And I think that I would just urge all of you to give him and Mrs. Dole a little space here and let them get rested up and think about their lives and what they want to do. And there'll be time for that. You know, Thanksgiving is coming up, Christmas is coming up. But I can attest to the fact that based on the vigorous campaign he ran, not just in the last 96 hours but in---- throughout, that if he so chooses, he's got a lot left to give his country. But I think that should be his decision. . . .
 
Investigations
Q. As you reflect on the past four years and look ahead to the next four, what are your thoughts about the emotional, legal and even financial toll that these investigations over the past four years have taken and continue to take on people who are very close to you? Do you see any remedy for it and do you see any end to it? . . T.
A. Given the posture in which some of these things are in, I'm not the person to be making recommendations on a resolution of it. There are others who are writing about it. I noticed there was a woman who worked for both Mr. Fiske and Mr. Starr [the two Whitewater special counsels, Robert B. Fiske Jr. and Kenneth W. Starr] who wrote an article in one of the legal periodicals in the last month or so, arguing for some changes in the way these matters are dealt with. There are a lot of people who are troubled by this and are thinking about it.
But I think that at least for the time being, that it's not for me to be the one who's suggesting what should be done. But a lot of people, I think in both parties, who care about it are concerned about the costs of this as compared with any benefit that comes from it.
Q. What are your thoughts, though, on the toll that it has taken on those closest to you?
A. Well, I hate, I obviously hate that. And the thing I really hate is that when people that are completely innocent are basically confronted with a presumption of guilt and told to prove their innocence of charges; they're not quite sure what they're supposed to do. You know, it's difficult. . . .
We should never be happy when innocent people suffer unnecessarily. That's not good. No one can be possibly for that, so we need to try to see -- you know, we seek out people's opinion about what should be done. But I don't think it's for me to be discussing that now. . . .
Q. Getting back to the subject of all these legal investigations, has the First Lady been notified by Kenneth Starr's office that she is either the subject or a target of any of his investigations?
A. No. . . . Not to my knowledge.
Q. Mr. President, one of the lingering areas of hard feelings from the campaign is over your and the Democratic Party's attacks on the Republicans over Medicare. Since you're going to meet with the Republican leadership next week, how will you encourage them to be conciliatory and trust you now over Medicare, given the damage they incurred in the campaign over the issue?
A. Well, first of all, there are always a lot of hard feelings after every campaign. I believe that what I said about the Medicare provisions of the budget I vetoed was accurate and true and fair, and I cannot retract that. I do not believe the picture they painted of the budget I passed, which sparked America's economic recovery, is fair. By any reasonable standard, it wasn't the biggest tax increase in history. Average people did not pay as much as they said they paid. I mean, there were lots of problems I had with that. But that wouldn't stop me from working with them on the budget.
And so, you know, we obviously don't always agree with each other's characterization of our positions. I don't agree with a lot of their characterizations, but that wouldn't stop me from working with them.
And I would say that my answer to you is that the way to put this behind us is to reach an agreement, and I'm prepared to reach out and meet them halfway. And if you---- I think the way to go forward is to pick up where we left off.
As I said and acknowledged to everyone, including Senator Dole, when we ended the budget negotiations, when they had to stop, in fairness to him, because he had to begin his Presidential campaign, at the time when they ended, we were actually quite close to an agreement. And the differences between us were entirely manageable, and I could see how we could build a bridge between our two positions that would give us a balanced budget plan.
So the obvious answer here is just to go forward by picking up where we left off, with the Republican position and with our Administration's position, and I think, you know, we could have an agreement in next to no time. . . .
 
Second-Term Problems
Q. Mr. President, we know that you're an avid student of Presidential history. And in modern times, second terms for Presidents have been either disappointing or disastrous. I wonder if you've drawn any lessons on why that's so, and if there are any pitfalls in particular that you are determined to avoid for yourself. . . .
A. There's a book that's just been written on second-term Presidencies. And I was a little nervous about reading it before the election, but along toward the end, I read it. And I got to thinking in my own mind about the second terms. You know, President Truman's second term, President Eisenhower's second term and President Reagan's second term, and the others in the 20th century especially I focused on.
What the record shows is that the things which derail a second term are basically three. One is some external event intervenes and the President can't fulfill his dreams or hopes or his agenda.
Two is, apart from the obvious case, the second thing that happens is sometimes the President thinks he has more of a mandate than he does and tries to do too much in the absence of cooperation. That was the rap on President Roosevelt's second term, that his first and third terms were greater than his second term because of that.
And the third is that sometimes a President essentially just runs out of steam. That was the rap that was attempted to be put on President Reagan, although I would remind you that in President Reagan's second term he signed the tax reform legislation and the first big welfare reform overhaul, which is quite a good bill.
So what we have done to try to avoid that is, No. 1, make it clear that we understand the American people want us to work together with the Republicans, and that we have to build a vital center. And No. 2, to have a driving agenda for the second term that grows out of what we've done for the last four years. That's why I went out of my way at the Democratic National Convention, when I was speaking to the convention and the American people, to list a very long list of specific things I wanted to do, because I wanted an agenda to organize the attention, the spirits and the energies of people. I think when people stay busy they do good things, and I think that that will very much help. . . .

Social Security
Q. Mr. President, do you plan on looking at ways to reform the Social Security system in the next four years?
A. Well, I think that goes back to the Medicare question that one of you asked. . . .
I believe we have to find a bipartisan framework to look at the longer, if you will, the baby boom issues presented in Social Security and Medicare. And as I said, I think there has to be some sort of commission, some sort of functioning bipartisan way of looking at that.
But that must not be an excuse for any of us, including me, to avoid doing what it takes right now to put a decade of life on the Medicare Trust Fund. In other words, we need to fix Medicare for a decade right now. And we have agreed upon savings that will do that. And we lost a year last year. Thank goodness, it didn't hurt us too bad, because the inflation rate dropped so much in medical costs. But we don't need to lose another year.
We ought to make an agreement now, put a decade of life on the Medicare Trust Fund, and then agree upon a bipartisan mechanism that could look at what things can be done, which wouldn't be particularly dramatic, if we move now, to deal with the problems that Social Security will encounter in the third decade of the next century and the problems that Medicare will encounter when all the baby boomers go on it.
But those things can be salvaged and resolved with modest changes if we move now, because it's so far into the future. But---- but not---- but that kind of a bipartisan mechanism cannot and must not be used to avoid dealing with the Medicare Trust Fund problem that exists right now. . . .
Q. The last time there was a bipartisan commission to look into the long-term reform of Social Security in 1983, among the reforms that came out was the raising of taxes and the raising of the retirement age, eligibility. Would you be open to those possibilities if that became the recommendation of a new commission?
A. I think it would be---- Well, the reason you have a commission is so you don't have to jump the gun on trying to make decisions, but let me mention---- let's just---- my view is it would be unwise to raise the payroll tax any more. It is already quite high, and it is a regressive tax. Most of our new jobs are coming from small businesses. If you start a small business, you have to pay the payroll tax whether you make any money or not. You don't have to pay income tax unless you're actually making money. And if you look at the job machine in America and where most of these jobs are coming, and you look at the fact that the payroll tax is quite high, I think it would be difficult for us to do it. And I also believe if we start now it will not be necessary.
In terms of the age, keep in mind we have already---- the '83 commission got an agreement to raise the age from 65 to 67 because when Social Security was instituted, the average life expectancy was less than 65. You didn't even have a 50-50 chance to draw Social Security when it started. Now if you get to be 65 in America, you're living in the group of seniors with the highest life expectancy in the world. So we're going up to 67. I think . . . there are two issues there.
One is, could you accelerate the ladder? You know, it's like a month a year now; could it go to two months a year? That's one question.
The other question would be, if you went beyond that, it would be---- it might be fine for somebody like me, you know, who's always had a desk job, but what about the people who have laboring jobs? What about people who really work with their hands and their backs? And would that be too burdensome for them? That would be my concern there.. . .
Q. Mr. President, when the questions came up earlier this afternoon about questionable campaign-finance contributions, you took pains to say these were Democratic National Committee matters. But with all due respect, you named the co-chairmen of the Democratic National Committee. Much of what they did this year was in furtherance of your re-election and that of other Democrats. Don't you feel some responsibility or accountability for what was done in your name?
A. Well, first of all, we are doing---- I believe that the Democratic Committee is doing the right thing by returning any contributions that were improperly tendered to it. And I certainly feel responsible to do that, and I would not tolerate their not doing it.
Furthermore, I think Senator Dodd and Chairman Fowler did the right thing in trying to, if you will, develop a tighter screen for evaluating it. They acknowledged that they should have had a better screen; that these-- that there were---- you know, as I said, they took in over a million contributions, over two years, from different people, and that they found these---- a relatively small number that were wrong. And they should do it. And I---- and had that not been done, I would absolutely feel responsible for it, because I am a Democrat, and I'm the titular head of the Democratic Party.
So I'm not trying to disclaim responsibility, but I am trying to point out that there is a difference between what the party does and what the campaign does. I am also responsible for what the campaign does in that sense, but there is a difference. And the party should do the right thing and give any money back.
But---- and I also pointed out---- again, the Republicans have their own problems here. And they've had some in both campaign and in party raising in Presidential campaigns and in party raising. But all of them, when you add them up, it's---- I'll say something in behalf of the Republicans. If they raised money from a million people over two years, it would not surprise me if 10 to 20 of those contributions were---- did not meet the requirements of the law -- or 30. And it would be a small percentage. And that doesn't mean that we ought to run 'em out of town on a rail. But what I do know is that if you have to raise this kind of money -- and they raised---- what did they raise? -- $150 million more than we did. They raised $3 for every $2 we did. If you raise this kind of money, you're going---- questions will be raised about it.
And the only way to ever put this to rest is to pass campaign finance reform. We have a vehicle that I think is as good as any. There is no perfect solution to this because of two Supreme Court decisions, one of which says nobody can limit how much money you spend on the campaign or how much of your money you spend. The other one gives, appears to give, a wide berth to these third-party expenditure committees.
But still, the McCain-Feingold bill, with the modification to deal with the foreign contribution issue, would dramatically improve things. Now, I am for it. The Democratic Party is on record for it. The chairman of the Democratic Committee has challenged the chairman of the Republican Committee to endorse it. Senator McCain was very active in Senator Dole's campaign. It is completely bipartisan. And we have enough votes in our caucus in the Senate and the House to contribute to an overwhelming victory.
So now the real question is whether we get McCain-Feingold is solely within the purview of the leaders of the House and the Senate on the Republican side. If they'll go with it, we will do it lickety-split, and then we'll be able to talk about some other things down the road. . . .
 
Mideast Talks
Q. President Arafat called on you, Mr. President, to help him move the peace process between the Palestinians and Israelis. Mr. Arafat considers the whole situation as very urgent and serious due to the fact that there are many settlements which are brewing, and Mr. Sharon is threatening to build more settlements in the West Bank before the final settlements with the Palestinians.
In light of this, and the choking closure on the Palestinians that you are very concerned about -- several times you have expressed your opinion and desire to see the Palestinians working and getting everything -- what are your immediate plans, Mr. President, to bring about implementation of the Oslo Accords as well as the Israeli-Palestinian agreement, and all of the signatures which were done here in Washington, in the near future, sir?
A. I think the first and most important thing we can do is to nail the agreement on Hebron. You know, we were getting very, very close to an agreement on Hebron before Chairman Arafat had to leave to go to his trip to Europe. And I did what I could by bringing Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat here to meet with King Hussein and me. They began to establish at least the beginnings of a relationship of trust and interchange so that an agreement could be made on Hebron.
If we can clear the Hebron hurdle -- it has such emotional significance to both sides, as well as such practical significance -- I believe that will open the door to go on and fulfill all the other challenges. . . .
Q. Mr. President, this is twice now you've been elected with less than 50 percent of the vote. How big of a disappointment was that to you? And is that going to hamstring you now?
A. Not much. Three hundred seventy-nine electoral votes was an enormous consolation prize. And, you know, after all, in many of the states that were battleground states, including two that were especially important to me, there were four candidates on the ballot that got substantial numbers of votes, in California and Oregon, in particular. And so---- and I made a decision the last week that I wanted to go to some of the smaller states where we had some elections in play. And my advisers said, "Now, if you do this, it will cost you a couple of points on your popular margin."
I said, "You know, it's the right thing to do. We ought to go out there, where people were asking me to come and campaign."
They thought it would make a difference, and I agreed to do it. I don't have any regret at all. . . .
Q. Mr. President, the Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement was the foreign-policy pinnacle of your first term. As you seek a Secretary of State, will the first and foremost quality you look for in someone, be the person who can get that process back on track?
A. Well, the short answer to your question is that will be one thing I look for, and that is one of the most important things that happened in the last four years.
Continued reduction of our nuclear arsenals, the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty, the indefinite extension of the Nonproliferation Treaty, the end of---- stopping the North Korean nuclear program; all those things amount---- they count for a lot, as well.
But if you look ahead, here's what I want a Secretary of State to do: No. 1, to continue our efforts to build the first undivided democratic Europe in history, which means to effect the NATO expansion, working with the Secretary of Defense, in a way that is-- -- and solidifies our partnership with a democratic Russia, instead of undermining it; No. 2, to continue to be a force for peace in the Middle East, in Northern Ireland, working through the process in Bosnia and elsewhere; No. 3, to meet the new security threats of terrorism and organized crime and drug running, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and sophisticated traditional weapons; and then to take advantage of the extraordinary economic opportunities for the United States in building a global economic structure that is increasingly more open and fair, that will stabilize the rest of the world, and help America's prosperity to continue.
I don't think there's any way to---- we don't have any scientific studies of this, but there's probably no way to calculate the enormous positive impact that the dramatic expansion of trade in the last four years has had on the changing mix of the new jobs in America. Over half of the new jobs, our 10.5 million, 10.7 million new jobs, have come in high-wage areas. There's no question that one big reason is the disciplined, organized, integrated efforts that have been made in the private and public sectors to expand trade.
So I want a Secretary of State that can do all that. I guess that means I want a magician.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); BUDGETS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOWLES, ERSKINE B; PANETTA, LEON E BILL CLINTON (92%); ERSKINE BOWLES (90%); LEON E PANETTA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



206 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Pedestrian Malls Can, and Do, Survive

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re the Nov. 5 Business Day article "When Shoppers Walk Away From Pedestrian Malls": The good news about downtown America is that despite efforts of car interests to undo them, more than 100 pedestrian malls remain in the United States. And some of the busiest are in New York City.
Merchants lining the 165th Street mall in Jamaica, Queens, and the Fulton Mall in downtown Brooklyn have no plans to reopen these pedestrian oases to traffic during business hours. In Manhattan, the mall on Nassau Street has been car-free for nearly 30 years, ever since Mayor John V. Lindsay advanced this needed traffic control measure. 
 As you report, the bad news is that downtown retailing continues to sag. Federal policies that subsidize suburban development -- with low-interest loans for single-family homes, the construction of Interstate highways and the dismantling of trolley systems focused on city centers -- have assured the destruction of downtowns as shopping meccas.
Pedestrian streets provide meeting places for a wide mix of people. Judging these spaces by the dollar value of their retail sales misses this primary mission.
 
GEORGE HAIKALIS
New York, Nov. 6, 1996
 
The writer is the chairman of Auto-Free New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PEDESTRIAN MALLS; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); SUBURBS (68%); 

PERSON: HAIKALIS, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1996



207 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 36; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPITALIST;
Better Off Now

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis 

 BODY:
NOT LONG BEFORE Election Day, I was on the phone to T.W.A. trying to find a way to catch up with Air Force One, which was somewhere in the air over the Middle West on its way to every place at once. The T.W.A. reservations agent, upon hearing my peculiar request, violated the first rule of business -- never talk politics to the customer -- and announced that even though he was a lifelong Republican, he wasn't going to vote for Bob Dole. "What, you don't want a 15 percent tax cut?" I asked. "Oh, PUH-LEASE," he said. He went on to talk the kind of talk I'd been hearing all across the country during the campaign, the voice of Average Voter turned Armchair Economist: "Like, right, cut taxes and balance the budget. I made the mistake of believing Ronald Reagan when he came out with that, and he created a $5 trillion debt."
"So you don't believe it anymore?" I asked. 
 "There's nobody I know who believes it," he said, as he tapped Clinton's frantic itinerary into his computer. "Dole is like so stuck in the past."
Twenty minutes later, I was back in front of the television watching the T.W.A. agent being proved wrong. There were still a few believers, after all. There was the former Presidential candidate Steve Forbes on "Wall Street Week With Louis Rukeyser," saying that the only problem with Dole's tax-cut pledge was that it wasn't being made often enough or with sufficient enthusiasm. "The TV ads -- and I don't understand it -- go all over the place," Forbes complained before going on to explain that deep down the American people understand that lower tax cuts work magic on the economy.
This is likely to be the story told by the true tax-cut believers from now until Jack Kemp's own Presidential campaign: that the problem in 1996 wasn't the message but the messenger. For true believers, this is much easier to swallow than the possibility that there is no longer a viable market for the notion that tax cuts spur growth and ultimately shrink the deficit, too.
Of course, you can never prove why voters respond the way they do to a particular issue. And it is true that if ever a politician were capable of alienating voters from a brilliant and painless proposal, it was Bob Dole. But by far the most plausible explanation for Dole's failure to sell his tax cut is the tax cut itself. A lot of voters learned from the experience of the 1980's in a way that the Forbes and Kemps and Wall Street Journal editorial writers did not, to wit: when you cut taxes, you never quite get around to cutting Federal spending, and when you don't, you create big deficits.
Indeed, the Clinton campaign was built around voters making this connection -- and on one other: that bigger deficits mean higher interest rates and that higher interest rates mean rising payments on home mortgages, car loans and so on. And it worked, or at any rate seemed to. The last days of October found Bill Clinton appearing happily with small children to celebrate the unfurling of giant Perot-style charts illustrating the plummeting of the Federal deficit. Meanwhile, the Dole campaign was talking tax cuts here and there, but the polls were saying that most people weren't buying.
 AND SO WHATEVER else it may have been, the 1996 Presidential campaign marked the first time in memory that voters punished a politician -- or at any rate failed to reward him -- for promising them tax cuts they could not afford. Who knows where this new intelligence came from -- some mixture of Perot infomercials and hard experience probably. But it should be said that one of the great trends in American capitalism has been the complication of personal finance. All sorts of people once happily ignorant about finance are now both borrowers and lenders. They also have, through retirement plans and savings, a stake in the stock and bond markets. They understand the concept of interest on the national debt because they see the interest on their Visa cards. They understand what a widening Federal deficit does to interest rates and how, in turn, rising interest rates play on Wall Street. Indeed, one of the reasons Perot may have found such a receptive audience for his lectures on public finance was that they mirrored fairly well a lot of people's personal finance.
This new economic literacy seems like a small step forward for democracy -- and a small step backward for politics. From now on, it may be just a little bit harder for politicians to fool voters on economic issues. On the other hand, the rise in economic literacy seems to be contributing to the biggest fallacy of Presidential campaigns: that they are chiefly referendums on the economy. The typical rationale for this idiocy -- "the Prez gets the blame when things go badly so he should get the credit when things go well" -- betrays the folly of the premise. The real question is whether he deserves either blame or credit, and for the most part he doesn't.
Sure, a President can propose tax strategies and funding cuts that affect the deficit. But the factors contributing the most to economic growth -- technology, education, luck -- lie well outside Presidential politics. To some extent, "the economy" is just shorthand for whatever sentiment lingers in the air. But to the extent that "the economy" is truly the economy, it is being abused; you get the feeling that the convention of holding the President accountable arose mainly because there was no one else who could be. We don't vote on the Fed chairman.
A couple of years back, I asked someone who attended a lot of Bill Clinton's meetings on economic issues whether anyone ever suggested as a strategy telling the voters that a President has no real power over the economy. He laughed. But of course voters have heard Presidents talk of such powerlessness, and will again, come the next recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGETS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK; LEWIS, MICHAEL; DOLE, BOB RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



208 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8455 words

HEADLINE: When Plagues End

BYLINE: By Andrew Sullivan; Andrew Sullivan, a senior editor at The New Republic, is the author of "Virtually Normal: An Argument About Homosexuality."

 BODY:
I.
FIRST, THE THINGS I RESIST REMEMBERING, the things that make the good news almost as unbearable as the bad.
I arrived late at the hospital, fresh off the plane. It was around 8:30 in the evening and there had been no light on in my friend Patrick's apartment, so I went straight to the intensive-care unit. When I arrived, my friend Chris's eyes were a reddened blear of fright, the hospital mask slipped down under his chin. I went into the room. Pat was lying on his back, his body contorted so his neck twisted away and his arms splayed out, his hands palms upward, showing the intravenous tubes in his wrists. Blood mingled with sweat in the creases of his neck; his chest heaved up and down grotesquely with the pumping of the respirator that was feeding him oxygen through a huge plastic tube forced down his throat. His greenish-blue feet poked out from under the bedspread, as if separate from the rest of his body. For the first time in all of his illnesses, his dignity had been completely removed from him. He was an instrument of the instruments keeping him alive. 
 The week before, celebrating his 31st birthday in his hometown on the Gulf Coast of Florida, we swam together in the dark, warm waters that he had already decided would one day contain his ashes. It was clear that he knew something was about to happen. One afternoon on the beach, he got up to take a walk with his newly acquired beagle and glanced back at me a second before he left. All I can say is that, somehow, the glance conveyed a complete sense of finality, the subtlest but clearest sign that it was, as far as he was concerned, over. Within the space of three days, a massive fungal infection overtook his lungs, and at midnight on the fourth day his vital signs began to plummet.
I was in the hall outside the intensive-care room when a sudden rush of people moved backward out of it. Pat's brother motioned to me and others to run, and we sped toward him. Pat's heart had stopped beating, and after one attempt was made to restart it, we intuitively acquiesced, surrounded him and prayed: his mother and father and three brothers, his boyfriend, ex-boyfriend and a handful of close friends. When the priest arrived, each of us received communion.
I remember that I slumped back against the wall at the moment of his dying, reaching out for all the consolation I had been used to reaching for -- the knowledge that the final agony was yet to come, the memory of pain that had been overcome in the past -- but since it was happening now, and now had never felt so unavoidable, no relief was possible. Perhaps this is why so many of us find it hard to accept that this ordeal as a whole may be over. Because it means that we may now be required to relent from our clenching against the future and remember -- and give meaning to -- the past.

II.
 
MOST OFFICIAL STATEMENTS ABOUT AIDS -- the statements by responsible scientists, by advocate organizations, by doctors -- do not, of course, concede that this plague is over. And, in one sense, obviously, it is not. Someone today will be infected with H.I.V. The vast majority of H.I.V.-positive people in the world, and a significant minority in America, will not have access to the expensive and effective new drug treatments now available. And many Americans -- especially blacks and Latinos -- will still die. Nothing I am saying here is meant to deny that fact, or to mitigate its awfulness. But it is also true -- and in a way that most people in the middle of this plague privately recognize -- that something profound has occurred these last few months. The power of the newest drugs, called protease inhibitors, and the even greater power of those now in the pipeline, is such that a diagnosis of H.I.V. infection is not just different in degree today than, say, five years ago. It is different in kind. It no longer signifies death. It merely signifies illness.
The reality finally sank in for me at a meeting in Manhattan this summer of the Treatment Action Group, an AIDS advocacy organization. TAG lives and breathes skepticism; a few of its members had lambasted me only nine months before for so much as voicing optimism about the plague. But as soon as I arrived at the meeting -- held to discuss the data presented at the just-completed AIDS conference in Vancouver, British Columbia -- I could sense something had changed. Even at 8 P.M., there was a big crowd -- much larger, one of the organizers told me, than at the regular meetings. In the middle sat Dr. David Ho, a pioneering AIDS researcher, and Dr. Martin Markowitz, who presided over recent clinical trials of the new treatments. The meeting began with Ho and Markowitz revisiting the data. They detailed how, in some trials of patients taking the new protease inhibitors used in combination with AZT and another drug called 3TC, the amount of virus in the bloodstream was reduced on average a hundred- to a thousandfold. To put it another way: Most people with H.I.V. can have anywhere between 5,000 and a few million viral particles per milliliter of their blood. After being treated for a few weeks with the new drugs, and being subjected to the most sensitive tests available, many patients had undetectable levels of the virus in their bloodstreams. That is, no virus could be found. And, so far, the results were holding up.
When Ho finished speaking, the questions followed like firecrackers. How long did it take for the virus to clear from the bloodstream? Was it possible that the virus might still be hiding in the brain or the testes? What could be done for the people who weren't responding to the new drugs? Was there resistance to the new therapy? Could a new, even more lethal viral strain be leaking into the population? The answers that came from Ho and Markowitz were just as insistent. No, this was not a "cure." But the disappearance of the virus from the bloodstream went beyond the expectations of even the most optimistic of researchers. There was likely to be some effect on the virus, although less profound, in the brain or testes, and new drugs were able to reach those areas better. The good news was that H.I.V. seemed primarily to infect cells that have a short half-life, which means that if the virus is suppressed completely for two years or so, the body might have time to regenerate tissue that was "aviremic." And since the impact of the drugs was so powerful, it was hard for resistance to develop because resistance is what happens when the virus mutates in the presence of the drugs -- and there was no virus detectable in the presence of the drugs.
The crowd palpably adjusted itself, and a few chairs squeaked. These are the hard-core skeptics, I remember thinking to myself, and even they can't disguise what is going through their minds. There were caveats, of course. The latest drugs were very new, and large studies had yet to be done. There was already clinical evidence that a small minority of patients, especially those in late-stage disease, were not responding as well to the new drugs and were experiencing a "breakout" of the virus after a few weeks or months. Although some people's immune systems seemed to improve, others' seemed damaged for good. The long-term toxicity of the drugs themselves -- their impact on the liver, for example -- could mean that patients might undergo a miraculous recovery at the start, only to die from the effects of treatment in later life. And the drugs were often debilitating. I tested positive in 1993, and I have been on combination therapy ever since. When I added the protease inhibitors in March, the nausea, diarrhea and constant fatigue had, at first, been overwhelming.
Still, after the meeting, a slightly heady feeling wafted unmistakably over the crowd. As we spilled out into the street, a few groups headed off for a late dinner, others to take their protease drugs quickly on empty stomachs, others still to bed. It was after 10, and I found myself wandering aimlessly into a bar, where late-evening men in suits gazed up at muscle-boy videos, their tired faces and occasional cruising glances a weirdly comforting return to normalcy. But as I checked my notebook at the door, and returned to the bar to order a drink, something a longtime AIDS advocate said to me earlier that day began to reverberate in my mind. He had been talking about the sense of purpose and destiny he had once felt upon learning he was positive. "It must be hard to find out you're positive now," he had said darkly. "It's like you really missed the party."

III.
 
SECOND, THE RESISTANCE TO MEMORY.
At 6 o'clock in the morning in the Roseland Ballroom in Manhattan on a Sunday last spring the crowds were still thick. I had arrived four hours earlier, after a failed attempt to sleep. A chaotic throng of men crammed the downstairs lobby, trying to check coats. There were no lines as such, merely a subterranean, almost stationary mosh-pit, stiflingly hot, full of lean, muscular bodies glacially drifting toward the coat-check windows. This was, for some, the high point of the year's gay male social calendar. It's called the Black Party, one of a number of theme parties held year-round by a large, informal group of affluent, mainly white, gay men and several thousand admirers. It's part of what's been dubbed the "circuit," a series of vast dance parties held in various cities across the country and now a central feature of an emergent post-AIDS gay "life style."
When people feared that the ebbing of AIDS would lead to a new burst of promiscuity, to a return to the 1970's in some joyous celebration of old times, they were, it turns out, only half-right. Although some bathhouses have revived, their centrality to gay life has all but disappeared. What has replaced sex is the idea of sex; what has replaced promiscuity is the idea of promiscuity, masked, in the increasing numbers of circuit parties around the country, by the ecstatic drug-enhanced high of dance music. These are not mass celebrations at the dawn of a new era; they are raves built upon the need for amnesia.
Almost nothing has been written in the mainstream media about these parties, except when they have jutted their way into controversy. A new circuit party, called Cherry Jubilee in Washington, incurred the wrath of Representative Robert Dornan because drugs had been used in a Federal building leased for the event. The annual Morning Party in August on Fire Island, held to raise money for Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York, was criticized on similar grounds by many homosexuals themselves. But in general, these parties have grown in number with a remarkable secrecy, reminiscent of the old, closeted era when completely bifurcated gay lives were the norm. But their explosion on the scene -- there are now at least two a month, involving tens of thousands of gay men in cities as diverse as Pittsburgh and Atlanta -- is interesting for more than their insight into party culture.
The events are made possible by a variety of chemicals: steroids, which began as therapy for men wasting from AIDS and recently spawned yet another growing sub-subculture of huge body builders; and psychotherapeutic designer drugs, primarily Ecstasy, which creates feelings of euphoria and emotional bonding, and ketamine, an animal anesthetic that disconnects the conscious thought process from the sensory body. On the surface the parties could be taken for a mass of men in superb shape merely enjoying an opportunity to let off steam. But underneath, masked by the drugs, there is an air of strain, of sexual danger translated into sexual objectification, the unspoken withering of the human body transformed into a reassuring inflation of muscular body mass.
As the morning stretched on, my friends and I stood in the recess of a bar as the parade of bodies passed relentlessly by. Beyond, a sea of men danced the early morning through, strobe lights occasionally glinting off the assorted deltoids, traps, lats and other muscles gay men have come to fetishize. At the party's peak -- around 5 A.M. -- there must have been about 6,000 men in the room, some parading on a distant stage, others locked in a cluster of rotating pecs, embracing one another in a drug-induced emotional high.
For a group of men who have witnessed a scale of loss historically visited only upon war generations, it was a curious spectacle. For some, I'm sure, the drugs helped release emotions they could hardly address alone or sober; for others, perhaps, the ritual was a way of defying their own infections, their sense of fragility or their guilt at survival. For others still, including myself, it was a puzzle of impulses. The need to find some solidarity among the loss, to assert some crazed physicality against the threat of sickness, to release some of the toxins built up over a decade of constant anxiety. Beyond everything, the desire to banish the memories that will not be banished; to shuck off -- if only till the morning -- the maturity that plague had brutally imposed.

IV.
 
I TALK ABOUT THIS AS A quintessentially homosexual experience, not because AIDS is a quintessentially homosexual experience. Across the world, it has affected far, far more heterosexuals than homosexuals; in America, it has killed half as many intravenous drug users as gay men. And its impact has probably been as profound on many heterosexual family members and friends as it has been on the gay men at ground zero of the epidemic. But at the same time, AIDS was and is inextricable from the question of homosexuality in the psyche of America because it struck homosexuals first and from then on became unalterably woven into the deeper and older question of homosexual integration.
In so many ways it was a bizarre turn of events. In the past, plagues were often marked by their lack of discrimination, by the way in which they laid low vast swaths of the population with little regard for station or wealth or sex or religion. But AIDS was different from the beginning. It immediately presented a political as much as a public-health problem. Before homosexuals had even been acknowledged as a central presence in American life, they were suddenly at the heart of a health crisis as profound as any in modern American history. It was always possible, of course, that, with such a lack of societal preparation, America might have responded the way many Latin American and Asian countries responded -- with almost complete silence and denial -- or that the gay world itself might have collapsed under the strain of its own immolation. But over the long run something somewhat different happened. AIDS and its onslaught imposed a form of social integration that may never have taken place otherwise. Forced to choose between complete abandonment of the gay subculture and an awkward first encounter, America, for the most part, chose the latter. A small step, perhaps, but an enormous catalyst in the renegotiation of the gay-straight social contract.
And an enormous shift in our understanding of homosexuality itself. Too much has been made of the analogy between AIDS and the Jewish Holocaust, and they are, indeed, deeply distinct phenomena. One was an act of calculated human evil, designed to obliterate an entire people from the center of Europe. The other is a natural calamity, singling out a group of despised outsiders by virtue of a freak of nature, and a disease that remained asymptomatic long enough to wipe out thousands before anyone knew what was happening. But in so far as each catastrophe changed forever the way a minority group was viewed by the world, the two have eerie parallels.
The hostility to homosexuals, after all, has far more in common with anti-Semitism than it does with racism. Homosexuals, like Jews, are not, in the psychology of group hatred, despised because they are deemed to be weak or inferior, but precisely because they are neither. Jews and homosexuals appear in the hater's mind as small, cliquish and very powerful groups, antipathetic to majority values, harboring secret contempt for the rest of society and sustaining a ghetto code of furtiveness and disguise. Even the details resonate. The old libel against Jews -- that they would drink the blood of Christian children -- has an echo today in the bigot's insistence that he has nothing against homosexuals per se, but doesn't want them allowed near his kids. The loathing for each group is closely linked to fear -- and the fear is fanned, in many ways, by the distortion of a particular strain in Christian theology.
But that fear was abated, in both cases, by extraordinary contingent historic events. The Holocaust did many things to the structure of anti-Semitism, but in one hideous swoop it helped destroy the myth that Jews were somehow all powerful. The mounds of bodies, the piles of artifacts and the grotesque physical torture that the Jews of Europe suffered did not exactly indicate power. Out of that powerlessness, of course, came a new form of power, in the shape of achieved Zionism. But the idea of Jewish victimhood seared by mass murder into the Western consciousness was seared indelibly -- and it remains one of the strongest weapons against the canards of anti-Semitism today.
Similarly, if on a far smaller scale, AIDS has dramatically altered the psychological structure of homophobia. By visiting death upon so many, so young, AIDS ripped apart the notion of subterranean inviolability that forms such a potent part of the fear of homosexuals. As tens of thousands of sons and uncles and brothers and fathers wasted away in the heart of America, the idea that homosexuals maintained a covert power melted into a surprised form of shock and empathy. For some, the old hatreds endured, of course, but for others an unsought and subtle transformation began to take shape. What had once been a strong fear of homosexual difference, disguising a mostly silent awareness of homosexual humanity, became the opposite. The humanity slowly trumped the difference. Death, it turned out, was a powerfully universalizing experience. Suddenly, acquiescence in gay-baiting and gay-bashing became, even in its strongholds, inappropriate at a moment of tragedy. The victimization of gay men by a disease paradoxically undercut their victimization by a culture. There was no longer a need to kick them, when they were already down.
I think this helps explain the change in the American psyche these last 10 years from one of fearful stigmatization of homosexuals to one of awkward acceptance. And it's revealing that the same thing did not really happen to the many other victims of the plague. With inner-city blacks and Latinos, with intravenous drug users, there was no similar cultural transformation, no acceleration of social change. And that was because with these groups, there had never been a myth of power. They had always been, in the majority psyche, a series of unknowable victims. AIDS merely perpetuated what was already understood and, in some ways, intensified it. With gay men, in contrast, a social revolution had been initiated. Once invisible, they were now unavoidable; once powerful subversives, they were now dying sons.
AIDS, then, was an integrator. If the virus separated, death united. But there was a twist to this tale. As the straight world found itself at a moment of awkward reconciliation, the gay world discovered something else entirely. At a time when the integration of homosexuals into heterosexual life had never been so necessary or so profound, the experience of AIDS as a homosexual experience created bonds and loyalties and solidarities that homosexuals had never experienced before. As it forced gay men out into the world, it also intensified the bonds among them; as it accelerated an integration, it forged an even deeper separation. The old question of assimilation versus separatism became strangely moot. Now, both were happening at once -- and feeding off the same psychological roots.
 I REMEMBER THE FIRST TIME I USED THE WORD "WE" IN PRINT IN reference to gay men. It was in an article I was writing as I witnessed my first AIDS death -- of a stranger I had volunteered to help out in his final months. He was 32 years old when I got to know him, back in 1990. Without AIDS, we would never have met, and the experience changed my sense of gay identity for good. Before then, although I had carefully denied it, I had quietly distanced myself from much of what I thought of as "gay culture." Tom helped to change this.
He was the stereotype in so many ways -- the 70's mustache, the Alcoholics Anonymous theology, the Miss America Pageant fan, the college swim coach. But he was also dying. His skin was clammy and pale. His apartment smelled of Maxwell House coffee and disinfectant and the gray liquid that was his constant diarrhea. I remember one day lying down on top of him to restrain him as his brittle, burning body shook uncontrollably with the convulsions of fever. I had never done such a thing to a grown man before, and as I did, the defenses I had put up between us, the categories that until then had helped me make sense of my life and his, these defenses began to crumble into something more like solidarity.
For others, the shift was more dramatic. Their own incipient deaths unleashed the unfiltered rage of the late 1980's, as decades of euphemism and self-loathing exploded into one dark, memorable flash of activism. The fire behind Act-Up was by its very nature so combustible that it soon burned out. But its articulation of a common identity -- the unsustainable starkness of its definition of homosexuality -- left a residue behind.
And I began to understand the pull of this identity more instinctively. Suddenly, it seemed, as my 20's merged into my 30's, everyone was infected. Faces you had got used to seeing in the gym kept turning up on the obit pages. New friends took you aside to tell you they had just tested positive. Old flames suddenly were absent from the bars. I remember thinking that a new term was needed for something that was happening to me with increasing frequency: I would be walking along a street and see an old man coming toward me whom I vaguely recognized. And then I would realize that it wasn't an old man; it was someone I knew who had just gone through some bout with pneumonia or some intestinal parasite. Like Scott, a soldier I had got to know as a 220-pound, 6-foot-3-inch, blue-eyed, blond-haired bundle of energy. During the gays-in-the-military affair early in the Clinton Administration, I had urged him to come out to his commanders and troops, sure that the new President would protect him. He told me I had to be out of my mind, and, of course, as it turned out, I was. And then, a few weeks later, he bumped into me on the street and confided the real reason he didn't want to confront anyone. He was H.I.V.-positive and needed the Army's support. He told me with genuine anguish, as if the knowledge of his disease demanded a courage his disease would also have punished.
Then, a mere year later, I saw him with a cane (literally), his spirit completely broken, his body shrunk to 140 pounds, his breath gone after the shortest walk, his eyes welling with the bitterness of physical pain and isolation. His lover of several years somehow endured the ordeal, nursing him every inch of the way, until Scott became a 90-pound skeletal wreck, unable to walk, his hair weak and gray and glassy, his eyes sunken miserably into a scaly face. Scott never fully reconciled with his family. And after Scott died, his lover told me that his last words had been, "Tell my mother I hate her."
When I would tell my straight friends, or my work colleagues or my family, about these things, it wasn't that they didn't sympathize. They tried hard enough. It was just that they sensed that the experience was slowly and profoundly alienating me from them. And they sensed that it was more than just a cultural difference. The awareness of the deaths of one's peers and the sadness evoked and the pain you are forced to witness -- not just the physical pain, but all the psychological fear and shame that AIDS unleashed -- all this was slowly building a kind of solidarity that eventually eliminated my straight friends from the most meaningful part of my life. There comes a point at which the experience goes so deep that it becomes almost futile to communicate it. And as you communicate less and less and experience more and more, you find yourself gravitating to the people who have undergone the same experiences, the ones who know instinctively, the people to whom you do not have to explain.
I remember the moment when my friend Patrick told me he had AIDS. We had been friends for a long time, yet the meaning of that friendship had never been fully clear to us. But at that moment we were able to look each other in the eye and tell each other we would be there for each other, whatever it took and however hard it became. I don't think I had ever made such a commitment before -- to anyone. It survived watching him waste away, seeing him buckled over on the floor, thumping the ground from the pain of his infections; it survived him messing himself in panic as he fumbled with his IV; it survived his bloody-minded resistance to risky treatments that might have helped him; it survived the horrifying last hours in the intensive-care unit and the awkward silences with his family a year after he passed away. It survives still, as does the need to find a way to give it meaning in his absence.
For a long time I never broke down or cried about any of this -- the dozens of acquaintances who have died, the handful of friends I have mourned or resisted mourning, the sudden flashes of panic at the thought of my own mortality. But late one night I caught sight of Senator Bob Kerrey on "Nightline." He was speaking haltingly of his relationship with Lewis Puller, the paralyzed Vietnam veteran who had survived the war, only to ultimately succumb to depression, alcoholism and, finally, suicide. There was in Kerrey's bitter, poignant farewell a sense that only he and a few others would fully understand Puller's anguish. Kerrey grasped, because he had experienced, what it was to face extreme danger and witness in the most graphic way possible the deaths of his closest friends and colleagues, only to come home and find those experiences denied or ignored or simply not understood. And as he spoke, I felt something break inside me. Kerrey knew, as Mark Helprin expressed so beautifully in his novel "A Soldier of the Great War," what almost every gay man, in a subtler, quieter way, has also learned: "The war was still in him, and it would be in him for a long time to come, for soldiers who have been blooded are soldiers forever. They never fit in. . . . That they cannot forget, that they do not forget, that they will never allow themselves to heal completely, is their way of expressing their love for friends who have perished. And they will not change because they have become what they have become to keep the fallen alive."
At the time of this writing, almost three times as many young Americans have died of AIDS as died in the entire Vietnam War.

V.
 
IN CAMUS'S NOVEL "THE PLAGUE," THE DESCRIPTION OF HOW PLAGUES end is particularly masterful. We expect a catharsis, but we find merely a transition; we long for euphoria, but we discover only relief tinged with, in some cases, regret and depression. For some, there is a zeal that comes with the awareness of unsought liberation, and the need to turn such arbitrary freedom into meaningful creation. For many more, there is even -- with good reason -- a resistance to the good news itself because "the terrible months they had lived through had taught them prudence." The reactions to the news, Camus notes, are "diverse to the point of incoherence." Many refuse to believe that there is any hope at all, burned by dashed expectations one time too many, "imbued with a skepticism so thorough that it was now a second nature." Others found the possibility of an end too nerve-racking to bear and almost dared the plague to kill them before it was too late.
And even now, among friends, there are those who refuse to be tested for a virus that, thanks to the new treatments, might be eliminated from the bloodstream. And there are those who are H.I.V.-positive who are still waiting to take the drugs and are somehow unable to relinquish the notion that being positive is a death sentence that they can endure only alone. And there are those many who, having taken all the drugs they can, have found that for some reason the drugs will not work for them and watch as their friends recover while they still sink into the morass of sickness made all the more bitter by the good news around them. And those more who, sensing an abatement of the pressure, have returned, almost manically, to unsafe sexual behavior, as if terrified by the thought that they might actually survive, that the plague might end and with it the solidarity that made it endurable.
You can already feel, beneath the surface, the fraying of the bonds. A friend in New York, H.I.V.-positive for 10 years, contemplates breaking up with his boyfriend because he suddenly realizes he is going to live. "I felt safe where I was," he tells me. "But now I feel like an attractive person again. It's more what you're radiating inside -- the feeling that, finally, you're not a potential burden. I mean, maybe I'm not a potential burden." Another positive friend, this one an AIDS advocate of hardened credentials, feels the meaning of his life slipping away. "At some point, you just have to go on," he says. "You say that was a great period in your life, but it's a big world and at some point you have to find a way to slip back into it and try and be a happy citizen. What I want is a boyfriend I love, a job that doesn't make me crazy and good friends."
But normalcy, of course, is problematic for gay America. The "normalcy" of gay life before AIDS is something few can contemplate and fewer remember. There are ways (the circuit parties) in which that history is repeated as farce, and ways (like the small revival of sex clubs) in which it is repeated as tragedy. But the solidarity of the plague years is becoming harder and harder to sustain. For the first time, serious resentment is brewing among H.I.V.-positive men about the way in which AIDS has slowly retreated from the forefront of gay politics. And among the longest-term survivors, there is a depressing sense that a whole new generation of post-AIDS gay men have no understanding of the profundity with which their own lives have become suffused.
Take John Dugdale, a 36-year-old photographer living in New York, tall and chiseled, with dark hair and even darker eyes. (His self-portraits accompany this essay.) But when Dugdale looks at you these days, he merely looks toward you. Some time ago, he became almost blind from an AIDS-related virus. He took the new drugs, experienced euphoria as they obliterated the virus from his blood, crashed again a few months later as the virus returned, then experienced yet another high as his health improved once more. He knows his own survival is tenuous and is depressed by the shallowness of a culture that is clearly beginning to move on. As we chatted recently, he recalled with not a little edge a particular moment at the Black Party in New York earlier this year. It concerned a friend of his with AIDS, a body builder who still prized himself on being able to consort with the best of the competition. There was one problem: he had lesions on his body, lesions he refused to have treated. And when he took his shirt off that night to dance with the throng, the lesions were all too visible. Not so long ago, they might have been viewed as war medals. Now, they're something different. "This guy came up to him," Dugdale recalled, "and said: 'Would you please put your shirt on? You're ruining it for everybody else.' "
For some, of course, the ebbing of AIDS could mean that the old divisions between H.I.V.-positive and H.I.V.-negative men could heal. With a less catastrophic diagnosis, the difference in life span -- and self-definition -- between negative and positive men might narrow. But there is also another possibility: that with a smaller and smaller percentage of gay men having H.I.V., the isolation of those infected will actually increase, and that those with full-blown AIDS could feel more intensely alone than before.
Even at the showing of the AIDS Memorial Quilt in Washington this year, the divides were subtly present. There were those who went to see the quilt itself or went to the candlelight vigil and those who went only to the many parties that filled the weekend. (In truth, many went to all.) And the internal tensions were palpable. It is as if many H.I.V.-positive men have emerged from transformingly deep spiritual experiences only to re-enter a culture that seems, at least in part, to be returning to the superficial. And the lifting of the veil of terror has served, paradoxically, only to isolate them still further in a subculture that has less time and less energy to sympathize or understand. The good news from the laboratory has robbed them not simply of the drama and intensity of their existence but also of the recognition of that drama and intensity. And even among their own kind.
 
VI.
 
A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE END OF AIDS AND THE END OF MANY other plagues: for the first time in history, a large proportion of the survivors will not simply be those who escaped infection, or were immune to the virus, but those who contracted the illness, contemplated their own deaths and still survived. If for some, this leads to bitterness, for others it suggests something else entirely. It is not so much survivor guilt as survivor responsibility. It is the view of the world that comes from having confronted and defeated the most terrifying prospect imaginable and having survived. It is a view of the world that has encompassed the darkest possibilities for homosexual -- and heterosexual -- existence and now envisions the opposite: the chance that such categories could be set aside, that the humanity of each could inform the humanity of the other.
Greg Scott is a Washingtonian I've known for years. We're both in our early 30's, and as the plague has unfolded over the last decade it has affected us in different ways. Greg is from a traditional Southern family, and when he was thrown out of the Navy for being a homosexual, he threw himself into years of furious activism. When I first came to know him, he was renowned in D.C. for hanging around bars and staring wildly at passers-by as a prelude to either lecturing or seducing them. For a short period of time, he would follow me around D.C. screaming "Collaborator!" to punish me for the sin of writing or voicing politically incorrect views. But we both knew, at some level, that we were in the epidemic together, and so when I saw him slowly declining over the last two years, I felt a part of myself declining as well. My friend Pat once described Greg as "hanging by the same length of rope" as he was, so for some time I half-expected to see Greg's face in the crowded obituary columns of the local gay paper along with the dozens of other faces I had known or seen over the years. When I wrote an op-ed piece a year ago hailing the latest breakthroughs in AIDS research, Greg came up to me in a bar and regaled me. "This is not a survivable disease!" he yelled over the music. "What do you know about it, anyway?"
So I learned to avoid Greg as far as I could. I never relished our meetings. Since he didn't know I was positive, too, our conversations had this false air about them. The solidarity I felt was one I could not fully express, and it ate away at me. I occasionally spotted him walking his dog in the neighborhood, his body, always thin, now skeletal, his large, staring eyes disfigured by lesions, his gait that of a 60-year-old. When my parents visited, I pointed him out from a distance on the street, in some doomed attempt to help them understand: "See. That's my friend Greg." Read: "See. That's my friend Greg. Do you see what this is doing to us?" Last fall, Greg was taking morphine twice a day. He was on a regimen of 60 pills a day and was virtually bedridden. So when I caught sight of him five months ago, I literally jumped.
I had grown used to the shock of seeing someone I knew suddenly age 20 or 30 years in a few months; now I had to adjust to the reverse. People I had seen hobbling along, their cheekbones poking out of their skin, their eyes deadened and looking down, were suddenly restored into some strange spectacle of health, gazing around as amazed as I was to see them alive. Or you'd see them in the gym, skin infections still lingering, but their muscles slowly growing back, their skull-faces beginning to put on some newly acquired flesh. This is what Greg now looked like, his round blue eyes almost tiny in his wide, pudgy face, his frame larger than I remembered it: bulky, lumbering, heavy.
In one of those bizarre coincidences, I bumped into him the day I quit my job as editor of The New Republic. He was one of the first people I was able to tell, and from the minute I spoke to him, I could tell he was changed. The anger was somehow gone; a calm had replaced it. He seemed to understand intuitively why I might want to take time to rethink my life. As we parted, we hugged awkwardly. This was a new kind of solidarity -- not one of painful necessity, but of something far more elusive. Hope, perhaps? Or merely the shared memory of hopelessness?
Since then, I've become used to Greg's describing the contours of what he calls his "second life." And he describes its emergence in a way that is shared by more people than just him. The successive physical and material losses of his illness stripped him, he recalls, of everything he once had, and allowed him, in a way that's unique to the terminally ill, to rebuild himself from scratch. "There were times I was willing to accept that it was over," he says. "But things were never fully tied up. There were too many things I had done wrong, things I wanted to amend, things I still wanted to do. I was hanging on tenaciously out of some moral judgment of myself because I knew I hadn't got it right the first time."
In his progressive illness, Greg had lost first his energy, then his ability to digest food, then his job, then his best friend and then most of his possessions, as he sold them off to pay for medications. But he hung on. "In the early days," he remembers, "I couldn't imagine going through all that to stay alive. My friend Dennis would say that I'd never go that far. But then he died. Looking back, it's absurd the lengths I went to. I'd never realized I cared so much about myself." (Greg's story brings to mind that of another friend: his illness finally threatened his sight, and he had to decide whether to pursue a treatment that involved an injection of a liquid directly into the eyeball. In other words, he had to watch as the needle came closer and closer and finally penetrated his eye. I remember asking him how on earth he could go through with it. "But I want to see," he told me.)
"When you're in bed all day, you're forced to consider what really matters to you," Greg elaborates. "When the most important thing you do in a day is your bowel movement, you learn to value every single source of energy. You go into yourself and you feel different from other people, permanently different." Some gains are subtle. "It sparked a new relationship with my grandmother. Like me, she was suddenly finding she couldn't drive her car anymore, so we bonded in a way we'd never bonded before. You suddenly see how people are valuable. I mean, if you're healthy, who has time for this old lady? And suddenly this old lady and I have so much in common. And I still have that. That's a gain. I have an appreciation and love for her that I never fully had before." Some gains are even more profound. "My grandfather would say, 'You don't squeak under the bottom wire unless you're meant to.' And I feel that there's this enormous responsibility on me that I've never felt before. And it's a pleasant responsibility. I mean, lay it on me."
Responsibility is, perhaps, an unusual word for Greg to be using, and until AIDS it was not one usually associated with homosexuality. Before AIDS, gay life -- rightly or wrongly -- was identified with freedom from responsibility, rather than with its opposite. Gay liberation was most commonly understood as liberation from the constraints of traditional norms, almost a dispensation that permitted homosexuals the absence of responsibility in return for an acquiescence in second-class citizenship. This was the Faustian bargain of the pre-AIDS closet: straights gave homosexuals a certain amount of freedom; in return, homosexuals gave away their self-respect. But with AIDS, responsibility became a central, imposing feature of gay life. Without it, lovers would die alone or without proper care. Without it, friends would contract a fatal disease because of lack of education. Without it, nothing would be done to stem the epidemic's wrath. In some ways, even the seemingly irresponsible outrages of Act-Up were the ultimate act of responsibility. They came from a conviction that someone had to lead, to connect the ghetto to the center of the country, because it was only by such a connection that the ghetto could be saved.
And in the experience of plague, what Greg felt on a personal level was repeated thousands of times. People who thought they didn't care for one another found that they could. Relationships that had no social support were found to be as strong as any heterosexual marriage. Men who had long since got used to throwing their own lives away were confronted with the possibility that they actually did care about themselves and wanted to survive and failed to see themselves as somehow inferior to their heterosexual peers. A culture that had been based in some measure on desire became a culture rooted in strength. Of course, not everyone experienced such epiphanies. Some cracked; others died bitter or alone. Many failed to confront the families and workplaces and churches in ways that would have helped provide the capacity to survive. But many others did. And what didn't destroy them made them only more resistant to condescension.
And as gay culture shifted in this way, so did gay politics. The radicalism of Act-Up segued into the radicalism of homosexuals in the military and same-sex marriage. From chipping away at the edges of heterosexual acceptance, suddenly the central ramparts were breached. Once gay men had experienced beyond any doubt the fiber of real responsibility -- the responsibility for life and death, for themselves and others -- more and more found it impossible to acquiesce in second-class lives. They demanded full recognition of their service to their country, and equal treatment under the law for the relationships they had cherished and sustained in the teeth of such terror. AIDS wasn't the only thing that created this transformation of gay demands, but it was surely linked to them at a deep psychological level.
Plagues and wars do this to people. They force them to ask more fundamental questions of who they are and what they want. Out of the First World War came women's equality. Out of the second came the welfare state. Out of the Holocaust came the state of Israel. Out of cathartic necessity and loss and endurance comes, at least for a while, a desire to turn these things into something constructive, to appease the trauma by some tangible residue that can give meaning and dignity to what has happened. Hovering behind the politics of homosexuality in the midst of AIDS and after AIDS is the question of what will actually be purchased from the horror. What exactly, after all, did a third of a million Americans die for? If not their fundamental equality, then what?

VII.
 
LAST, THE THINGS I WANT TO remember.
In the past six months, I have begun to believe I will live a normal life. By normal, of course, I don't mean without complications. I take 23 pills a day -- large cold pills I keep in the refrigerator, pills that, until very recently, made me sick and tired in the late afternoon. But normal in the sense that mortality, or at least the insistence of mortality, doesn't hold my face to the wall every day. I mean I live with the expectation that life is not immediately fragile; that if I push it, it will not break.
It is a strange feeling this, and a little hard to communicate. When you have spent several years girding yourself for the possibility of death, it is not so easy to gird yourself instead for the possibility of life. What you expect to greet with the euphoria of victory comes instead like the slow withdrawal of an excuse. And you resist it. The intensity with which you had learned to approach each day turns into a banality, a banality that refuses to understand or even appreciate the experience you have just gone through.
Of course, I remember feeling this banality before and I remember the day it ended. I remember the doctor offering me a couple of pieces of candy, before we walked back into his office and he fumbled a way of telling me I was H.I.V.-positive. I've thought about that moment a lot in the past few months. When my doctor called recently to tell me that my viral load was now undetectable, part of me wanted to feel as if that first moment of mortality had been erased. But, of course, that moment can never be erased. And not simply because I cannot dare hope that one day the virus might be wiped completely from my system, but because some experiences can never be erased. Blurred, perhaps, and distanced, but never gone for good. And, in fact, beneath the sudden exhilaration, part of me also wants to keep the moment alive, since it allowed me to see things that I had never been able to see before.
I saw, to begin with, that I was still ashamed. Even then -- even in me, someone who had thought and worked and struggled to banish the stigma and the guilt and the fear of my homosexuality -- I instinctively interpreted this illness as something that I deserved. Its arrival obliterated all the carefully constructed confidence in my own self-worth. It showed me in a flash how so much of that achievement had been illusory -- how, in a pinch, I still loathed and feared an inextricable part of who I was.
The diagnosis was so easily analogized to my sexuality not simply because of how I got it but also because it was so confoundingly elusive. I felt no sickness. I had no symptoms. There was nothing tangible against which I could fight -- no perceptible, physical ailment that medicine could treat. So it seemed less like an illness than like some amorphous, if devastating, condition of life. Suddenly, it existed as my homosexuality had always existed, as something no one from the outside could glean, something I alone could know and something that always promised a future calamity.
For days after my diagnosis, I went through periodic, involuntary shaking spasms. My head literally sank onto my chest; I found it hard to look up or see where I was going. The fear of death and sense of failure -- and the knowledge that there was nothing I could do to escape this awareness -- kept me staring at the sidewalk. At night, asleep, exhaustion gave way to anxiety as panic woke me up. And then, one morning, a couple of weeks later, after walking with a friend to get some coffee and muffins for breakfast, I realized in the first few sips of coffee that for a few short seconds of physical pleasure, I had actually forgotten what had just happened to me. I realized then that it was going to be possible to forget, that the human mind could find a way to absorb the knowledge that we are going to die and yet continue to live as if we are not. I experienced in some awful, concentrated fashion what I used to take for granted.
From then on, I suppose, I began the journey back. I realized that my diagnosis was no different in kind than the diagnosis every mortal being lives with -- only different in degree. By larger and larger measures, I began to see the condition not as something constricting, but as something liberating -- liberating because it forced me to confront more profoundly than ever before whether or not my sexuality was something shameful (I became convinced that it was not), and liberating because an awareness of the inevitability of death is always the surest way to an awareness of the tangibility of life.
And unlike so many others who are told they are going to die, and so many people who had been told they were H.I.V.-positive before me, I had time and health and life ahead. In one way, as I still lost friend after friend, and as others lived with griefs that would never be expunged, I experienced this with a certain amount of guilt. But also, as someone graced by the awareness of a fatal disease but not of its fatality, a heightened sense of the possibilities of living. I realized I could do what I wanted to do, write what I wanted to write, be with the people I wanted to be with. So I wrote a book with a calm I had never felt before about a truth I had only belatedly come to believe. The date I inscribed in its preface was two years to the day since my diagnosis: a first weapon against the virus and a homage to its powers of persuasion.
And for a precious short time, like so many other positive people, I also sensed that the key to living was not a concentration on fighting the mechanics of the disease (although that was essential) or fighting the mechanics of life (although that is inevitable), but an indifference to both of their imponderables. In order to survive mentally, I had to find a place within myself where plague couldn't get me, where success or failure in such a battle were of equal consequence. This was not an easy task. It required resisting the emotional satisfaction of being cured and the emotional closure of death itself. But in that, of course, it resembled merely what we all go through every day. Living, I discovered for the second, but really the first, time, is not about resolution; it is about the place where plague can't get you.
Only once or twice did I find that place, but now I live in the knowledge of its existence.
So will an entire generation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "GERICAULT'S RAFT" (1996), BY DOUG AND MIKE STARN. (pg. 53); "THE ARTIST'S MOTHER" (1994), ONE IN A SERIES OF SELF-PORTRAITS MADE BY JOHN DUGDALE TO RECORD HIS DUEL WITH AIDS. (pg. 55); "SELF PORTRAIT WITH BLACK EYE" (FEBRUARY 1996), BY JOHN DUGDALE. (pg. 56); "SELF PORTRAIT GRINNING" (JUNE 1996), BY JOHN DUGDALE. (pg. 58)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (55%); TREATMENT ACTION GROUP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREATMENT ACTION GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AIDS & HIV (90%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BEACHES (70%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, ANDREW MARTIN MARKOWITZ (57%); DAVID HO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



209 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Where A Room Is A Calling Card

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP; HERBERT MUSCHAMP is the architecture critic of The Times.

 BODY:
MY respect for Japanese etiquette is not everything it should be. On my first trip to Tokyo, in August, I forgot to pack business cards. On the other hand, I did take the precaution of booking myself into the legendary Okura Hotel, so I did not entirely lose face. The Okura gives the face of those who stay there an instant lift. The hotel is in the Toranomon district, just across the street from the United States Embassy, and a privileged ambassadorial aura rubs off on the Okura and its guests. A room here is itself a calling card, a credential that identifies the lodger as a Somebody, or at least as somebody willing to go along with the way the Japanese expect visiting Somebodies to behave. There may be better hotels in Tokyo. Fancier, more expensive, and more modern hotels are numerous throughout the city. Let them all try harder. There is only one Okura.
Opened in 1953, the Okura Hotel is a lovingly maintained period piece. A friend describes the hotel's architecture as Eisenhower Modernism. Cruel but apt. The hotel's main building is a boxy bit of business, a low rise block of glass and concrete, its facade adorned with ditsy perforated screens. Even the names of the hotel's restaurants evoke the flowery hospitality of the postwar years. Breakfast? Try the Camellia Corner, with lighting fixtures evidently designed to evoke the aurora borealis. For dinner, there's the fabulous Orchid Room, featuring Continental cuisine. Cocktails? The Fifties had the right idea. Why bother with martinis if you can't order them straight up in a penthouse bar called the Starlight Lounge? 
 No one, however, stays at the Okura for the food. At breakfast, the scrambled eggs are a faintly chicken-flavored foam. For lunch, there are sandwiches in several varieties of moistened cardboard. Nonetheless, you may well find yourself ordering frequent rounds of bland dishes simply for the pleasure of watching the spellbinding grace with which they are served. Japan is justifiably famous for elaborate courtesy, but at the Okura, service rises to the level of an art form. Stylized but not stiff, formal but not intimidating, it's like a martial art from which the martial element has been subtracted.
On arrival, you are greeted by a lineup of white gloved bellboys. Even if you're the sort of person who ordinarily insists on carrying your bags from the taxi to the check-in desk, you will refrain from doing that here. The staff does not stand there looking servile, overburdened, or confused. Instead of trying to be helpful, they help. They are your partners in a dance. The choreography with which they relieve you of your bags is so lovely that it would be philistine to protest. If you held onto your luggage, you would feel as if you had stolen it.
The arrival, however, is merely a curtain raiser for the full kabuki performance that awaits you when it's time to eat. The basic movement goes something like this. The waiter or waitress puts down the plate, stands back, but not straight up. The body remains slightly bent, slightly twisted in a sideways, nearly imperceptible bow, while the arms, acting as a kind of counterbalance to the swiveled hip, gesture toward the dish, the palms of the hands turned outward. It's a real presentation, a grand gesture of offering. The Okura is not a cheap place to stay, but as tipping is virtually unknown in Japan, you may find yourself thinking that a visit here is the bargain of a lifetime. You can't order a peanut without being treated to this amazing floor show, whether you choose the Belle Epoque, the Highlander Bar, the Toh-Ka-Lin or the Sazanka.
Order breakfast in your room, if only to spare yourself the glare of the Camellia Corner's northern lights. 7 A.M. The doorbell rings. Blurrily, you answer it. A waiter stands framed by the doorway. He does not barge over the threshold crying "Room service!" He allows a moment for jet-lagged eyes to adjust to the shock. Then: "May I . . . come in?" No one has said "May I?" to you for years, certainly not in such a sincere tone of voice. The pause between the words suggests a reservoir of politesse that, in the West, was drained dry centuries ago. Your overpowering impulse is to throw your arms around this person and say, Where have been all my life? Of course you may come in.
You need things laundered. You have already placed your clothes in the crisp paper bag provided for that purpose. It is embossed with the hotel's logo, a circle of three ginkgo leaves. You regret wrinkling the bag. But it's pleasant to know that your fine washables will on no account touch plastic, even if they are made of it. The laundry is returned a few hours later, in immaculate shape, with a handwritten note from the housekeeper. "Dear . . ., we are so sorry that we could not remove this stain! We did the best we could, but, unfortunately, the stain would not come out." Stain? What stain? Unless, perhaps, it's a tear stain, for the little note sounds so disconsolate you can almost hear the sound of sobbing as you read it.
Young ladies dressed in kimonos stand by the elevators in the main lobby and on the concourse level below. They do nothing but smile, nod and say good morning. At first you think, how weird to employ a living person to provide an ornamental touch, as if she were a human version of the handsome bowls of flowers that grace the hallways. Later it may occur to you that the service performed by these women is functional as well as decorative. For you must smile back. This accomplishes for your mood what the elevator does for your body.
FEW people stay at the Okura because of the decor. The guest rooms are comfortable but unexciting. Though there are some traditionally furnished Japanese accommodations, most of the rooms are like the Orchid Room's cuisine: blandly Continental. Tasteful lamps, pastel fauteuils, somewhat ceremoniously arranged. But there are pluses: a fax in each room, for instance, with idiot-proof instructions for international dialing. Beside the bed there's a convenient console with switches to control the lights and the electrically operated curtains, and buttons that bring in four stations of taped music. Atop the minibar there's a little hot water heater for brewing tea or coffee. But who would want to forgo the charms of room service for a bag of instant Sanka?
Nonetheless, the hotel's public rooms are wondrous, an immaculately preserved relic of a time when modern architects sought to recast the austerity of modern architecture for the era of postwar prosperity. Golden light, open space: that's the predominant effect of the Okura's famous lobby, perhaps the world's most celebrated meeting place of East and West. Clean, wide, open, flowing spaces, suffused with the radiance of indirect lighting bounced onto golden screens and wall reliefs, are accented by slim, pendant chandeliers, their glass globes molded in the shape of shells. You glide down four low steps -- it's the ultimate conversation pit -- toward a broad expanse of wheat-colored carpet that rolls on and on, seemingly toward the horizon.
Low modern easy chairs, of relaxed, slightly flying-saucer contour, are arranged in groups around elliptically shaped coffee tables. The chairs, and those sitting in them, are silhouetted against the lobby's rear wall, a translucent surface that recalls shoji screens. This arrangement affords a social strategy as well as an esthetic effect. People here can recognize arriving guests before they are recognized themselves. This gives them time to rise, step forward and take the initiative in the ritual exchange of bows.
The design owes more to the "organic" esthetic of Frank Lloyd Wright than to the machine age sleekness of the International Style. Indeed, the Okura is more characteristically Wrightian than the Imperial Hotel, the fabled building Wright designed for Tokyo in 1914. But the Okura's grand flow of space signifies something very different from Wright's idea. For Wright, the open floor plan symbolized America, an expansive continent, drawn out in space, wallowing in space, neither wanting nor needing to feel confined within walls. Japan, by contrast, is a tiny, constricted country. Space here is an ultimate luxury, a quantity that is a quality, something to be treated as if it were gold. The expansiveness of the Okura's great interiors must be appreciated as a refuge from deprivation.
So must the hotel as a whole. Today the Okura sits in the capital of a great industrial giant, a global economic superpower, maker of the world's most desirable electronic products. It takes a certain stretch of the imagination to envision the hotel rising in a city, indeed a civilization, that was recently reduced to wartime rubble.
The stretch should nonetheless be made. We've seduced ourselves, in the West, into thinking that we're "post modern," whatever that may mean. Here one regains an appreciation for modernity as a condition where efficiency and courtesy may coexist, are perhaps even inseparable. In the West we tend to think of service as being Old World, undemocratic, upstairs-downstairs, that sort of thing. Here one gains the sense that there may be a link between Japan's postwar regeneration and the seductive power of a voice that knows how to ask "May I . . . come in?"

The Hotel Okura is at 2-10-4 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105; telephone (81-3) 3582-0111, fax (81-3) 3582-3707. A night's stay for two people ranges from $370 to $735.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A traditional Japanese room at the Okura Hotel. (pg. 14); The lobby of the Okura Hotel, a grand flow of space in a country where space is the ultimate luxury. The hotel's boxy main building evokes the 50's. (Kaku Kurita for The New York Times) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: OKURA HOTEL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; OKURA HOTEL (TOKYO) MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



210 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 14; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: A Graceful Hop From State to Stage

BYLINE: By CYNTHIA WOLFE BOYNTON 

 BODY:
TWO years ago, Pauline Kezer pirouetted out of public office and into the arts. But as the former Secretary of State marks the completion of her first year as chief executive officer of the Hartford Ballet, she has proved she is not that far removed from the political mindset.
With the same focus on economic development, enthusiasm and a "bent for helping people" that earned her four terms as State Representative from her hometown of Plainville, she has put the once-faltering ballet on its best fiscal ground in years. The fund-raising drive she led early this year netted a record $1.2 million for the ballet, and new promotions helped boost subscriptions more than 20 percent. Added Thursday night performances have also attracted downtown workers usually in a rush to leave the city on weekends. 
 "When I was hired for this job, there were a few people who said, 'Oh my God, a politician.' But I'm one who not only understands the state, but its people," said Mrs. Kezer, 54.
She's banking on those people to support her. In a step designed to help the Connecticut economy as much as the ballet, Mrs. Kezer is taking the Hartford Ballet to the Klein Memorial Auditorium in Bridgeport for three productions this season.
The first, "Fire and Ice: A Tribute to the Russian Ballet," took place in early October and attracted 1,500 people -- fewer than Mrs. Kezer had hoped for, but "not bad" overall, she said.
"The Nutcracker" is scheduled at the Klein Dec. 13, 14 and 15 and "Director's Choice: Four by Kirk" on April 18, 19 and 20.
One of the goals of the performances, Mrs. Kezer said, is to get Fairfield County residents -- especially those who live near the New York border -- to look toward Bridgeport for arts and entertainment, rather than toward Broadway. "For us, the challenge is to get the ballet out to a larger audience. But instead of bringing the people to Hartford, we are bringing the ballet to them," Mrs. Kezer said. "People think it's wonderful that we want to bring something of quality to Bridgeport and keep it there. It's going to be our second home."
The company will continue performing at its base, The Bushnell, and has 27 performances of five ballets planned as part of this, its 25th anniversary season. (The Hartford Ballet and the Boston Ballet are the only full-time professional companies in New England.)
"You know how I feel when I watch a performance? Like a proud parent at a graduation," Mrs. Kezer said. "The dancing is just so beautiful and amazing. The more I see it, the more I want to see it. And to be able to share this with people, especially those seeing it for the first time, is really special."
But Mrs. Kezer believes it is more than the prospect of beautiful dancers and music that will interest residents in performances and make the program a success. The arts, she said, can play a significant role in Bridgeport's revitalization. Restaurants, lounges and convenient stores, all will feel the effects of the ballet if the estimated 8,000 people show up this season at the Klein, she said.
In Hartford, the ballet attracts approximately 50,000 people each year to the downtown area, Mrs. Kezer said, creating about $3 million for area businesses.
The arts also create jobs, she explained, and have traditionally done well in Bridgeport, which for years has supported the Bridgeport Symphony, Downtown Cabaret and Polka Dot Playhouse.
"But for that survival, you have to take risks," Mrs. Kezer added. "So instead of just putting our toe in the water, we jumped right in."
The community has certainly helped. Senior citizen groups and local Girl Scouts have volunteered to usher at performances, and a Bridgeport Advisory Council was formed to help make dancers feel at home. City officials chipped in by rushing to finish a new, monitored parking lot directly across the street from the Klein so people would feel safe on arriving there.
All this support is gratifying to Mrs. Kezer, but not surprising. A former science teacher and mother of three daughters, Mrs. Kezer pointed out she has suffered few failures. Yes, she conceded, there have been disappointments. In September 1994, for example, she lost the state Republican gubernatorial primary to John G. Rowland by more than 30 percent. But success, she said, has always followed the down times.
"If I didn't take the chance to run for governor, I'd never have the ballet today, and this is very exciting for me," she explained. "It's the place I should be giving my energies to right now."
Her move out of politics shocked a lot of people, however. After more than a decade at the Capitol, the public perception was that she would stay in government. Even Mr. Rowland had said after the primary that there would always be a spot for her in his administration. But, as Mrs. Kezer put it, "I'm not good at being the second banana."
She is, instead, the kind of person who thrives on taking charge and effecting change. "That's why I find the Hartford Ballet so appealing," explained Mrs. Kezer. "There are so many things that need to be done to get this company fiscally stable. So as long as it stays challenging, I'll stay."
Next on Mrs. Kezer's agenda is working with the ballet's artistic director, Kirk Peterson, to rebuild the "American Nutcracker," which the company is to perform at the Foxwoods Casino in Ledyard for Christmas 1997. There are also plans in the works for more regional performances, perhaps in Torrington or in Springfield, Mass., she said, as well as the task of raising hundreds of thousands of dollars over the next few months to reach year-end fund-raising goals.
Right now, she's also busy accepting compliments from people who saw Hartford Ballet dancers on the September cover of Dance magazine.
"For my friends not in the ballet world, I explain that getting on the cover of that magazine is like a politician getting their face on the cover of Time magazine," Mrs. Kezer said. "It's a big thing, and it says this company is going places."
Comfortable in the ballet's new offices at The Hartford Courant Arts Center on Farmington Avenue, Mrs. Kezer is focused on the future -- though she notes the oddity of much of her work taking place at The Bushnell, which is an infamous spot from her past. The theater was the site of the 1994 Republican primary with Mr. Rowland, where during delegates' voting Mrs. Kezer was caught on the floor in a push-and-shove scuffle with a security guard.
Today, that same floor is a site of inspiration -- a spot Mrs. Kezer uses, so far successfully, to choreograph the ballet's future. "Even after I move on, the music and the dance of this place will never wear out for me," Mrs. Kezer said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pauline Kezer, after years in the political arena, is building a financial base for the Hartford Ballet and seeking a wider audience. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD BALLET HARTFORD BALLET (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD BALLET

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING BALLET (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); 

PERSON: BOYNTON, CYNTHIA WOLFE; KEZER, PAULINE PAULINE KEZER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



211 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Edward Maum Sheehy;
Just What Do the Lawyers Think?

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
AS the newly elected president of the Connecticut Bar Association (founded 1875), Edward Maum Sheehy oversees 11,200 member lawyers.
Mr. Sheehy spent 17 years working on the association's client security fund, set up to compensate victims of dishonest lawyers. "The number of lawyers involved in this is very small but the amount of money taken is very large," he said. The fund is running out of money, and Mr. Sheehy is studying ways to replenish it. "We are concerned about the integrity of our profession," he said. 
 The association also operates a solo practitioner and small firm resource center in Rocky Hill where those fresh from law school may, at no cost, use a basic law library, get financial advice, find out how to set up an office and train personnel and even how to deal with stress.
"One of the things we are proposing is having a mentoring program where a younger lawyer can look to a more experienced lawyer for guidance and advice on a particular case," Mr. Sheehy said.
Mr. Sheehy, of Woodridge, is a partner in the Bridgeport law firm of Williams, Cooney & Sheehy.
Recently he discussed some of the Bar Association's priorities for 1996-97 and some of his personal concerns about the practice of law in Connecticut. Following are excerpts from that conversation:
Q. What can be done to insure that, as Federal funds dry up, the poor receive legal services?
A. The Legal Services Corporation is funded by Congress. The funding has leveled off at $275 million, which has resulted in a severe reduction in staff at the three legal services programs in Connecticut.
What the Connecticut Bar Association has done is set up a Law Works for People program; 1,900 attorneys have volunteered to handle cases that the Legal Services Corporation cannot handle itself because of a shortage of staff.
We have also lobbied our Congressional delegation to continue to fund the Legal Services Corporation.
A number of people will still go unrepresented. It is essential that everyone have access to the judicial system regardless of ability to pay. There is also a need at the Federal court for pro bono attorneys on a volunteer basis.
Q. Is there a serious backlog of cases to be tried?
A. Right now there are about 20,000 civil jury cases pending. The organized bar is concerned about that and so is the Judicial Department. Former Chief Justice Ellen Ash Peters recommended a plan for the creation of 20 additional judgeships phased in over the next five years. We are going to work hard for that.
We're also concerned about adequate funding for the Judicial Department. There were layoffs this spring. The clerks' offices were closed for several hours each day because of the shortage of staff. Some of those people have been rehired, but not all.
The law libraries in some of the larger cities were closed on Wednesdays -- Hartford, New Haven, Stamford and Bridgeport. That's been rectified, but that was for a period of four to six weeks.
Less than 2 percent of the State's General Fund is allocated to the Judicial Department and yet the department is asked to solve a myriad of problems in our society from the constitutionality of our school system to a small claims matter.
Q. Is too much money being diverted to the construction and expansion of prisons?
A. The Judicial Department has come up with an alternative sanctions program, alternative means of disciplining people convicted of crime -- home release monitoring and that sort of thing results in savings. Prisons are an essential element of the rehabilitation and punishment process but they are expensive.
Q. What do you think of the quality of judicial appointments in Connecticut?
A. The judicial appointments go through the Judicial Selection Commission, which screens all candidates. I would say overall the quality of judicial appointments has improved during the course of the operation of that commission. No one can be appointed by the Governor until they get the approval of this commission, which consists of six lawyers and six lay people. They have an elaborate questionnaire each applicant must fill out. They interview each applicant and check their references and background. There is always a need for even more qualified judicial appointments.
There are at least six appointments up for consideration by the Governor within the next couple of months.
There are 157 trial judges in Connecticut. There are the judges that sit on the Appellate Court and the Supreme Court. Former Chief Justice Peters proposes that 20 more judges be added for the civil court. At least 50 percent of the civil cases are family related. There are 14 judges alone assigned to juvenile court
Q. Is the jury selection system as fair as it could be?
A. The jury system is essential to our whole judicial process. Now the process is you get called for one day. If you are questioned that day and not chosen you are free for the next three years. Some judicial districts do require prospective jurors to come back the next day if the lawyers didn't get a chance to ask questions. Again, if they are not chosen on the second day they are free for the next three years.
The source of persons called is the motor vehicle list so almost everybody gets called. Judges are exempted, not lawyers.
Q. What can be done about dishonest lawyers.?
A. The client security fund, established in 1960, tries to make whole clients from whom lawyers have stolen. Over the past 36 years, that fund has paid out $4.5 million in claims against 68 former lawyers. In order for someone to recover from the fund the lawyer has to have been disbarred or resigned.
There have been a number of lawyer defalcations in the past few years. Right now the amount of claims pending against the client security fund is in excess of $8 million. We raise in dues from the Connecticut Bar Association members approximately $450,000 a year. Through simple arithmetic you can see that the fund does not have enough money to compensate those clients whose money has been taken.
The Bar Association is proposing that every lawyer licensed in the state of Connecticut, not just our members, be required to pay a $100 annual fee to be deposited into the client security fund. We estimate that would generate between $1.1 million and $1.5 million per year. That should be adequate to handle the claims presently pending.
The fund only covers situations that arise from the attorney-client relationship. In a number of situations lawyers have gotten involved with a client in investing money which would not be not covered.

 Q. Connecticut has three law schools. What are the employment prospects in Connecticut for new law school graduates?
A. Prospects are not as rosy as they were 10 years ago, even five years ago. More than 800 lawyers passed the last bar exam. Although a number of firms have hired additional lawyers in the past year, a number have cut back or not increased their numbers, due to the economy.
Q. The legal profession has a public relations problem. Why is that?
A. We surely don't get the publicity for what we do, but I don't think we are doing it for that purpose. It's just the nature of a person who does become a lawyer.
Just look at lawyers and what they do in their communities, the amount of time so many devote to pro bono services, not only the Law Works for People program, but to civic and charitable organizations. They are active in government. They give advice to people who in some cases can't afford to pay for it. I think that lawyers provide a great service to our communities unmatched by any other profession.
Q. Is Connecticut considered a litigious state?
A. In Connecticut the number of civil cases brought in a given year stays about the same. I don't think there has been a litigation explosion in Connecticut. I think there's been an increase in the amount of criminal cases, family cases and juvenile cases.
Q. Does dispute mediation bypass litigation.?
A. Built into the court system is what they call alternative dispute resolution. For the most part it is voluntary.
You can have a mini-jury trial, binding or nonbinding. You can have binding or nonbinding arbitration. In arbitration, evidence is presented, either through summaries or a questions and answer format. An arbitrator makes the decision, binding or nonbinding. Mediation is usually a discussion among the parties and their lawyers without a formal presentation.
The bottom line on this is trying to get cases resolved without going through the entire court process.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Maum Sheehy, Connecticut Bar Association head, on judgeships, jail and alternative dispute resolution. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT BAR ASSN WILLIAMS COONEY & SHEEHY LLP (55%); CONNECTICUT BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); CONNECTICUT BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (54%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BAR ASSN CONNECTICUT BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); CONNECTICUT BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (54%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LAWYERS (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); LAW LIBRARIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LIBRARIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); JURY TRIALS (60%); 

PERSON: POLK, NANCY; SHEEHY, EDWARD MAUM EDWARD MAUM SHEEHY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



212 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 2A; Page 1; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: HOLIDAY MOVIES;
Pout or Shout, They're Coming to Town, in Force

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
LISTEN TO THE SOUND OF HOLIDAY CHEER IN Hollywood.
"Unbelievably nerve-racking," said Sherry Lansing, chairman of the Paramount Motion Picture Group, which has five films opening over the holidays. "There's so much competition this year, so many choices, that good, quality films can get lost. We're literally cannibalizing each other." 
 "It's insane -- a ridiculous amount of movies are coming out," said Scott Rudin, a prolific producer who has three movies opening this season: "Ransom," "Mother" and "Marvin's Room."
"I'm leaving town," said Stephen Herek, director of the forthcoming live-action version of Walt Disney's "101 Dalmatians." "It's too nail biting."
And Steve Golin, the producer of "The Portrait of a Lady," observed, "If you're not terrified, you're an idiot."
In the real world, the holiday movie season begins on Thanksgiving weekend. In Hollywood, the season began on Friday with the opening of the thriller "Ransom," in which Mel Gibson plays a rich man whose young son has been kidnapped.
The strategy for the season sounds simple: start the race early, before the rest of the mob. It doesn't always work, of course. Last year the first studio hopeful was Jodie Foster's "Home for the Holidays." It didn't make it.
The holiday movie season is always an anxious time in Hollywood, even scarier than summer, which is terrifically scary. This year the seasonal anxiety is particularly acute because so many films will spew forth. At least 25 major films will open across the country in November and December, and at least 23 more will be seen briefly in a few major cities like New York and Los Angeles. Last year, the holiday was equally crowded. Darwin could have used these seasons in Hollywood as a testing ground.
Part of the explanation is economic. The five weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas account for as much as 15 percent to 20 percent of annual ticket sales. Each day between Christmas and New Year is, according to exhibitors, like Saturday at the movies. And in contrast with 1995, the holidays this year fall in midweek, making the weekends potentially even more lucrative. So from a financial point of view, the glut makes sense.
But the issue is more complicated. In addition to the desire to score big at the box office, there is the desire to cram as many potential Oscar candidates -- whether for best picture or best actor or actress -- into that little envelope before year's end, when Oscar voters will presumably have the best chance of remembering possible nominees.
Christmas-themed movies are, of course, a natural for this time of year, as are movies that simply feel all snuggly and warm, whether or not they have explicit holiday themes.
Finally, the frenzy seems to beget its own frenzy, as movie makers simply pile in, as if driven by some lemminglike urge to compete. The studios are seemingly indifferent to the fact that there may be such a thing as too many movies in too short a time.
Every holiday needs to have an action film. Whatever the quality of "Daylight" (opening Dec. 6), in which Sylvester Stallone saves a bunch of New York motorists trapped in a tunnel beneath the Hudson River, it is the only big special-effects action movie of the season.
"We've got a built-in audience with a big star and a great concept," said John David, the producer of "Daylight." "And there's nothing on the market quite like us."
Similarly, Barbra Streisand's "Mirror Has Two Faces" is the only romantic comedy arriving before Thanksgiving, giving it a clear opening for predominantly women's audiences before a tide of comedies opens around Christmas. (Other films that are aimed at specific audiences and that seem to have a clear field include "Star Trek: First Contact" and "Beavis and Butt-head Do America.")
At one end of the spectrum are holiday films intended for children, like "101 Dalmatians," starring Glenn Close as the wicked Cruella De Vil; "Jingle All the Way," an Arnold Schwarzenegger comedy, and "Space Jam," a $100 million extravaganza that pairs the basketball star Michael Jordan with the Looney Tunes animated gang about which Gerald M. Levin, the chairman of Time Warner, offered an amazingly candid description: " 'Space Jam' is not a movie. It's a merchandising event." Also in this category is Tim Burton's "Mars Attacks!" with Jack Nicholson and Ms. Close, which might be seen as a children's movie for adults.
At the opposite end of the spectrum are films considered Oscar-worthy. In December, just before the awards season, comes a surge of serious Hollywood movies in limited runs. The rationale? Good movies that opened much earlier in the year will somehow be forgotten by the academy voters and that odd group of journalistic hangers-on called the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, whose raison d'etre is to award the Golden Globes in January.
Is it really necessary to set off a flood of quality films after five or six arid months? Of course not. Academy Award winners like "Silence of the Lambs," "Forrest Gump" and "Dances With Wolves" were released earlier in the year without losing Oscar momentum -- or suffering at the box office. In fact, only one of last year's nominees for best picture, "Sense and Sensibility," came out during the holidays. The others -- "Apollo 13," "Babe," "Braveheart" and "The Postman" ("Il Postino") -- were released much earlier in the year. "Braveheart," the big winner, was released in May.
Similarly, this year the academy may remember earlier entries, like Frances McDormand in "Fargo," Denzel Washington in "Courage Under Fire"; Samuel L. Jackson in "A Time to Kill," John Sayles's film "Lone Star" and fall movies like "Michael Collins" with Liam Neeson, Stanley Tucci's "Big Night," Mike Leigh's "Secrets and Lies," and perhaps Brenda Blethyn from that movie.
But Hollywood persists, however illogically, in loading Oscar candidates into the last five weeks of the year. This year's Oscar buzz surrounds films like "Shine," an Australian film about a troubled pianist; "The Crucible," the movie adaptation of Arthur Miller's play; Milos Forman's "People vs. Larry Flynt," about the pornographer; "The English Patient," which opens on Friday; Kenneth Branagh's "Hamlet"; "Evita," the movie musical about Eva Peron and Jane Campion's "Portrait of a Lady," which stars Nicole Kidman.
In addition, Oscar hopes are being pinned on certain performers in holiday movies, among them, Debbie Reynolds in the comedy "Mother"; Shirley MacLaine in "The Evening Star" (the not-quite sequel to "Terms of Endearment"); Emily Watson in "Breaking the Waves"; Helen Mirren in "Some Mother's Son"; Lauren Bacall in her supporting role in "The Mirror Has Two Faces"; Joan Allen for her supporting role in "The Crucible"; James Woods for his supporting role in "Ghosts of Mississippi"; Diane Keaton in "Marvin's Room"; Woody Harrelson and Courtney Love in "The People vs. Larry Flynt"; Kristin Scott Thomas in "The English Patient"; Madonna in "Evita," and someone (maybe Goldie Hawn) in Woody Allen's musical, "Everyone Says I Love You."
Sometimes studios and film makers seem to go out of their way to maneuver their movies into the holiday season, despite the horrendous traffic jam, on the ground that their movies feel so, well, Christmasy. Take "One Fine Day," a romantic comedy starring Michelle Pfeiffer and George Clooney as single parents who collide in New York. "We were thinking of next year, maybe late winter or early spring," said Peter Chernin, until recently chairman of Fox. "But audiences loved it, and we thought if there's such a thing as a holiday mood, this plays into it."
Another movie that got wedged into the end-of-the-year sweepstakes is "Jerry Maguire," in which Tom Cruise plays a slick sports agent who loses his job and finds his soul. "I knew we were heading into heavy traffic," said Cameron Crowe, the writer and director. "But I just felt this movie had a December feeling. This time of year people take stock. They think about their lives. I do. There's a happy-sad kind of hoping for the best. It was just -- right for December. Of course it helps to have Tom Cruise."
ALSO BIG THIS YEAR ARE films featuring angels, among them "Michael," a Nora Ephron comedy in which John Travolta plays an unlikely and unshaven angel, and "The Preacher's Wife," Penny Marshall's remake of "The Bishop's Wife," about an angel who comes to help a troubled ministry, starring Whitney Houston alongside Mr. Washington.
Another movie with a hopeful message is the widely anticipated "Shine." "The summer would have been inappropriate in terms of how this feels as a movie," said Ruth Vitale, president of Fine Line Features, which bought the movie at the Sundance Film Festival. "This is a serious but a feel-good movie, and releasing it at the end of the year, when it's fresh in people's minds in terms of the Oscar, is perfect for us."
Finally, there are films like "Marvin's Room," based on the much-praised Scott McPherson Off Broadway play about a family coping with terminal illness. It ended up in the holiday rush whether or not anyone had intended it that way.
"At one point we thought of September for 'Marvin's Room,' " said Mark Gill, president for marketing at Miramax, which is distributing the film. "But then Diane Keaton came out in 'First Wives Club,' and it became inappropriate to release it then. We also thought we'd have better luck if we went later." In addition to Ms. Keaton, the ensemble cast of "Marvin's Room" includes Meryl Streep, Robert De Niro, Leonardo DiCaprio, Gwen Verdon and Hume Cronyn.
Although official numbers show that Christmas really is a bonanza for movie makers, it still feels as if Hollywood is overdoing things this time of year. But the competitive mind-set endures.
"It's like saying my child is better than your child," said Mr. John N. Krier, president of Exhibitor Relations, a company that monitors box office and film trends.
Or, as Ms. Lansing added, with some bewilderment, "Who's going to see 10 films in one week?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Geoffrey Rush in "Shine," about a troubled pianist--Hollywood persists in loading Oscar candidates into the year's final weeks. (Mark Tillie/Fine Line Features); Delroy Lindo and Rene Russo in the thriller "Ransom"--Its opening Friday marked the real start of the holiday movie season. (Lorey Sebastian/Touchstone Picture); "The Crucible," the movie adaptation of Arthur Miller's play that is opening later this month--Oscar buzz is already surrounding the film. (Barry Wetcher/20th Century Fox) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE GROUP INC (58%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (83%); THANKSGIVING (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); TICKET SALES (60%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD SCOTT RUDIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



213 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 70; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Just Speculating

BYLINE: By John Rothchild; John Rothchild is a financial columnist for Fortune magazine.

 BODY:

THE HIGH-RISK SOCIETY
Peril and Promise in the New Economy.
By Michael J. Mandel.
227 pp. New York:
Times Business/Random House. $25.
 
THE TROUBLE WITH PROSPERITY
The Loss of Fear, the Rise of Speculation, and the Risk to American Savings.
By James Grant.
348 pp. New York:
Times Books/Random House. $30.
 These two books are so completely at odds, it's remarkable that they were published in the same month by the same house. "Americans are angry and worried" is the "Call me Ishmael" that leads off "The High-Risk Society." With pink slips flying and Social Security in doubt, says Michael J. Mandel, the economics editor of Business Week, the meek will not inherit the condo at Lake Tahoe. To get anywhere in this high-risk society, we all have to run risks: take the demanding job over the cushy one, put money in stocks instead of a bank. 
 The author of "The Trouble With Prosperity" couldn't agree less. As far as most stocks are concerned, James Grant, the author of "Money of the Mind," prefers money in the bank. His first line might as well be "Americans are giddy and deluded." In particular they are deluded about stocks, which these days are being snapped up at crazy prices. As Mr. Grant describes the rise of speculation in the 1990's, it sounds as though he's talking about Mr. Mandel: "America was becoming financially bolder. It was coming around to the philosophy that there was more to be feared in not making money than in risking its loss. Such, of course, is the psychological hallmark of every boom."
 According to Mr. Mandel, before we became the high-risk society we lived in the Age of Security, where jobs were here today, here tomorrow, and where people could get ahead without taking chances. But in Mr. Grant's view, there never was an Age of Security, because in every economic cycle fortunes are made and lost, industries are started or shut down; what's good for the Farm Belt may be bad for the Rust Belt, and while they're popping corks in the Texas oil patch, they're circling the want ads in Silicon Valley. The risk in every era is the same. A euphoria develops around a certain kind of investment, and people end up overpaying for whatever it is: stocks and Manhattan real estate in the late 1920's, bonds in the 50's, gold in the early 80's, commercial real estate in the late 80's and so on. Large chunks of capital are foolishly deployed, resulting in large losses to the owners of the capital and a misallocation of resources.
 Mr. Mandel's notion that inhabitants of the high-risk society should automatically invest in stocks is to Mr. Grant's way of thinking too popular not to be dangerous. He reminds us that in the 50's, during the Age of Security Mr. Mandel writes about, the average investor preferred bonds, which everyone knew was a risk worth taking, while stocks were disparaged as something to bet on when the horses weren't running. Because of their popularity, bonds were selling for crazy prices, so they yielded a pittance (3 percent) at a time when inflation was on the rise. Not surprisingly (at least not to Mr. Grant), stocks produced many happy returns in the 50's, while the bondholders got clobbered. Bonds lost roughly 80 percent of their value from 1946 to 1981.
 Neither book is an investment guide per se, but this reviewer can't help noticing that whenever Mr. Grant finds people paying unreasonable prices for whatever's popular, the least popular alternative (stocks in the 50's, gold in the 70's, bonds in the 80's) becomes the source of great wealth for the oddballs who invest in it. Today, the oddball choice would be raw materials, because in the 14 years during which stocks have gone up, commodity prices have gone sideways or down, which to a Grant disciple means they'll make up lost ground in the next cycle. Naturally, Mr. Mandel predicts the opposite: because commodities have done nothing for 15 years, they will continue to do nothing.
 In the high-risk society, Mr. Mandel sees government in retreat: less regulation, less consumer protection, big holes in the safety net. He is alternately thrilled and disturbed that people are being left to succeed or fail on their own. But what irks Mr. Grant about today's high finance is that the financiers aren't allowed to fail. By lowering interest rates in the early 90's and providing the easy credit that saved the likes of Citicorp and the Bank of America, the Federal Reserve created the flood of cash that has lifted stocks to a precarious height.
 On the readability scale, Mr. Mandel's book is low-risk and low-gain, short on anecdote and long on generality and annoying repetition. In one painful stretch of 30 lines, we find "uncertainty," "high levels of uncertainty," "far less certainty," a "rise in uncertainty," "the certain career paths," "increasingly uncertain alternatives," "such uncertainty," "economic uncertainty" and "the uncertainty," along with "the old rules for success do not work in an economy where the sources of growth are also the sources of uncertainty." Mr. Grant's book is demanding in spots, because it requires a working knowledge of Wall Street mechanics, but witty and informative throughout. Readers of his popular newsletter, Grant's Interest Rate Observer, will recognize the prose. In recent years, Mr. Grant's chronic bearishness on stocks hasn't helped his readers get any richer, but who else can make interest rates interesting, not to mention downtown real estate, the bond market, Federal Reserve policy and other subjects dear to Wall Street?
 A recurring theme in his narrative is the skyscraper Mr. Grant can see from the window of his own office. Built in 1929 during the lower Manhattan boom, 40 Wall Street was expected to produce $3.9 million in revenues, a yield that didn't materialize until the mid-1950's. Mr. Grant's account of the owners, the tenants and the debts at 40 Wall is 67 years' worth of cyclical history crammed into one building. There was never an Age of Security at 40 Wall.
 Mr. Grant notes the astounding popularity of mutual funds -- 7,773 and counting -- making the fund industry as overbuilt and overcrowded as lower Manhattan before the great crash of '29. "Like the Manhattan skyscrapers of the 1920's and the Texas oil rigs of the 1980's, the white elephants of the 1990's," he writes, "will bring grief to their sponsors and drama to the next recession."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HIGH-RISK SOCIETY, THE (BOOK); TROUBLE WITH PROSPERITY, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS WEEK (72%); TIMES BOOKS (72%); HIGH-RISK SOCIETY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGH-RISK SOCIETY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); WRITERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); 

PERSON: ROTHCHILD, JOHN; MANDEL, MICHAEL J; GRANT, JAMES MICHAEL J MANDEL (97%); JAMES GRANT (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



214 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 4; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Habitats/64 Havemeyer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn;
A Former Convent Becomes a Co-op

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
IT is an imposing building, on Havemeyer Street in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, a former convent made of mellowed brick piled four stories high, complete with turrets and enormous windows.
For years, this 100-year-old building was derelict, bought from the Sisters of the Order of St. Dominic in the late 70's by the caretaker of the Church of the Annunciation across the street -- originally the Catholic church with which the convent was affiliated -- who allowed the building to fall into the city's hands for nonpayment of taxes. 
 It is a familiar drama, seen acted out across the city with slightly different characters. Some magnificent building, its original use part of the neighborhood's nostalgia, no longer useful, allowed to crumble and become an eyesore; impossible to think of a new use; too expensive to even tear down.
But this building is different, thanks to the efforts of Katie Kirwin and a group of other hardy home renovators, who persevered since 1982, when they asked the city to declare the old convent at 64 Havemeyer Street between North Fifth and North Sixth Streets a homesteading site. Two weeks ago, the 4 who are left from the original group of 11, joined by 7 others, started to move in.
When they petitioned for the city's permission to homestead the building, the vaulted ceilings and the decaying murals in the second-floor chapel -- now someone's studio apartment -- were still there, but most of the other original details were long gone. It took three more years for approval from the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which needed complete financial documentation from all the original homesteaders.
It then took another three to four years for demolition, which Ms. Kirwin said consisted of tearing out the old plaster and replacing some of the joists with structural steel. At that time, the group had very little professional help. The People's Firehouse, a neighborhood redevelopment group named for its initial battle to keep a local fire station, offered to help.
"But we were so arrogant," Ms. Kirwin said. "We thought we'd get it done so much quicker -- and here we are, 11 years later and only four of us made it through to occupancy."
Ms. Kirwin herself has an interesting story. When the project began, she was living in Greenpoint, in another old building, fighting the landlord in a buildingwide rent strike. "One of the criteria for acceptance into the homesteading program was that you had to be in a 'difficult' housing situation," she said. "Well, talk about going from the frying pan into the fire."
About a year after the group began the demolition, Ms. Kirwin began to notice she was a bit unstable on her feet; it took another year to diagnose her problem as multiple sclerosis. Diagnosis, she said, is not always easy; she would be very unsteady, then the symptoms would disappear. But soon after the initial diagnosis, the disease affected the whole right side of her body. She began using crutches in 1989, a wheelchair two years later.
"The diagnosis came right when I was changing jobs -- you can imagine how stressful," said Ms. Kirwin, who went to work for the city's Municipal Archives, where she still works part-time. "So after a year of demolition, I basically became the group's record keeper."
ALTHOUGH the group initially worked as a team -- each person pitching in on the whole building -- after a while the homesteaders progressed to their own spaces: The members of the group with more time and money got more done. A few homesteaders even got home improvement loans.
"The quality of the work was erratic," said Karen Ansis of the New York Landmarks Conservancy. "By the time we got involved, they were kind of at a stalemate; they'd run out of money and the place was only 40 to 50 percent finished."
Ms. Kirwin credits the Conservancy with being "a lifesaver."
"We applied for the first round of the Conservancy's City Ventures Fund in 1988," she said. Eventually, the homesteaders received a series of grants and low-interest loans: from the Astor Foundation, from the National Trust, from Con Edison and more from the Conservancy.
There were also services donated: Although the building's architect, Judith Saltzman of Li/Saltzman, was paid for some of her work, more was donated, according to Ms. Ansis, who manages two of the Conservancy's various grant and loan programs.
The convent homesteaders had found themselves in deep trouble.
"By 1991, 1992, it had become apparent that if we went for a conventional mortgage, our maintenance fees would no longer be affordable," Ms. Kirwin explained. Aided by the Conservancy, the group applied for and received a "recoverable grant" from New York State's Housing Trust Fund for $776,210 -- a sum that will remain a grant as long as the homesteaders comply with the state's low-income regulations, which mandate that occupants make no more than 80 percent of the city's median income, currently $42,000 for a family of four.
Major work was stalled until March of this year, when the project hired a general contractor, R and R Contracting, supervised by Brian O'Connor, and things really started to move.
But during the interim, the homesteaders kept paying their monthly dues, which rose from $50 to $125 during the long wait; the money was necessary to pay for insurance and other services for the partly gutted building.
When the contractors came in, several of the apartments were already sheetrocked, with electricity, but others were little more than shells.
"My unit wasn't as far along," said Ms. Kirwin, "because I couldn't do the extra work."
Last week, Ms. Kirwin's ground floor unit, which was adapted for people with disabilities and was part of the convent's refectory, looked spiffy, and Mr. O'Connor was consulting with her about the slope of the ramp he was installing alongside the building.
Back in 1989, the convent became a co-op, and the homesteaders bought their derelict floor space for $250. Since then, Ms. Kirwin estimates she and her fellow owners have put in a significant amount of money -- it is difficult to figure exactly how much -- in materials and sweat equity. Although the maintenance fees of the homesteaders are still being calculated, Ms. Kirwin estimates she will pay between $150 and $200 a month for her studio; if there had been no subsidies, the projected maintenance would have been $487.
The market value of the space is also tough to determine because it's hard to find comparables for a studio in a convent in Williamsburg. But even if the apartment is worth, say, $100,000, it is unlikely Ms. Kirwin could ever sell it for that much. Part of the restrictions on the state grant say that the apartment must be sold to another low- to moderate-income purchaser -- and that limits the sale price.
Regardless of the financial details, she said she is thrilled to finally have a home -- and she has a handsome one.
All the 11 units -- most of them studios -- have high ceilings, from the chapel studio to the three-bedroom garret loft on the top floor. Hers is no exception; she has 11-foot ceilings and 7-foot windows. Her studio -- a large living room and a kitchen -- overlooks the rear garden, now laid with turf and accented with paving stones.
"It used to be a parking lot," said Mr. O'Connor, the contractor. "Suddenly, it's a garden."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1985, the city allowed homesteaders to take over this former convent in Williamsburg. Katie Kirwin, one of the original homesteaders at 64 Havemeyer Street. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LANDMARKS CONSERVANCY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); RELIGION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; KIRWIN, KATIE KATIE KIRWIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



215 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 14; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Plan for an Access Road Upsets Stony Brook

BYLINE: By RAMIN P. JALESHGARI 

 BODY:
RESIDENTS of the towns of Brookhaven and Smithtown say they are on edge over development, road work and diminishing open spaces. Even a land-use study is raising concerns.
One study, financed by Brookhaven and called "Transportation Link Between SUNY Stony Brook and the Flowerfield Property," examines the need for an access road to an industrial zone, Gyrodyne Flowerfield. The site straddles the Smithtown-Brookhaven line south of Route 25A and west of the State University at Stony Brook. 
 "This study was initiated by Brookhaven's Industrial Development Association and paid for by a grant that organization received from New York State Economic Development," the Brookhaven Engineering Director, James Graham, said. "It was considered necessary, because Gyrodyne is a property viable for multiuse development. Gyrodyne's continued development over the next 20 years is dependent upon proper road access to the site."
The link would connect Route 25A and Nicolls Road, crossing Stony Brook Road.
"We are worried by the highly detailed nature of this study," said Lance Malomo, who lives on Route 25A in St. James. "The town has gone through a lot of effort and money to examine something that is just 'a possibility.' " A group that Mr. Malomo is associated with has protested at the entrance to the 320-acre site, owned by the Gyrodyne Company of America Inc., at Route 25A and Mills Pond Road.
Open since 1917, Flowerfield became a commercial site related to military technology in the 1950's and was later rezoned for light industrial use. Gyrodyne has been a public company since 1951. Today the complex features biomedical and electronics manufacturing, offices, a catering site, fairgrounds and the largest day-care center on Long Island.
"It would be unrealistic to think that an area like Gyrodyne, comprising hundreds of acres of commercially zoned land, would never be developed," said the Smithtown Community Development Director, Frank DeRubeis. "When it does, transportation will ultimately become a crucial point. It's more prudent to examine those possibilities now, before they become a major problem."
Gyrodyne's president, George Papadakos, said that among the possibilities were a day camp, an arts center, one-family houses and apartment complexes. Another use might be offices and manufacturing space for companies that have passed through the so-called high-technology incubator at the university.
Also considered was closing the Long Island Rail Road station in nearby St. James, to clear the way to reopen the Flowerfield station, which closed in 1958.
The Brookhaven study also reviewed the State University's plans and the potential effects on traffic. SUNY is planning 22 projects, including a 12,000-seat stadium, that would increase the building space on the campus by 48 percent.
The study predicted that fully developing the Gyrodyne site and the university plans would generate 23,000 vehicles by 2015. The last State Transportation Department study, in 1993, reported 18,800 vehicles a year.
A planning group in the department indicated that the projection followed the yearly growth of 1 percent for the last 10 years.
"Given the current and past traffic volumes on that portion of Route 25A, the route is already insufficient," Mr. DeRubeis said. "We know that we need transportation alternatives there already. What would happen if Gyrodyne was further developed? Even if they pursued low-residential usage of the grounds, it would present a further traffic problem. Hence the need for this study."
The Brookhaven Highways Superintendent, Harold Malkmes, agreed, saying Stony Brook Road was his main concern. "The study talks about an overpass at what would be at the Gyrodyne Road and Stony Brook Road intersection," Mr. Malkmes said. "I would agree with anything that takes traffic off Stony Brook Road. Life for residents along that route has become unbearable because of the increased volume of SUNY traffic."
A SUNY alumna, Jill Smith, said, "From what I understand, an overpass from Gyrodyne over Stony Brook Road would intersect the university's South Drive, a road with already unbearable traffic."
Mr. Malomo said he first heard about the road plan as a rumor, adding: "When I went to officials here in our Village of Head of the Harbor, which begins across 25A from Flowerfield, they claimed to have not seen the plan and couldn't comment. It was my feeling that any plans for Gyrodyne or roadways around it would affect our community, and our representatives should be in on the research phase before it was too late.
"When the study came out those same village employees that claimed ignorance were interviewed and had not registered protest of any of items registered in the study. I was shocked and stunned."
Valerie Vignona, president of the Long Hill Civic Association, representing a nearby community, said her group was also unaware of the study. "We've known that Gyrodyne has wanted to develop its property for over three years," Ms. Vignona said. "In fact, based on that desire, the company put in a proposal into the state for an access road to the university and its high-tech incubator. But it was voted down."
That proposal was presented in the Cuomo administration's Jobs Bond Act, but did not pass the Legislature. "This time around," Ms. Vignona said, "we haven't heard anything as yet from Gyrodyne or McLean Associates, the company hired to do the study. No calls, no letters. Long Hill residents are concerned that they were not part of the interview process. They feel it is a sign that they won't be part of the planning process if that time comes."
Features on the study in The Smithtown News have prompted anger at local legislators, Gyrodyne and the university.
The president of the university, Dr. Shirley Strum Kenny, wrote in an open letter on Oct. 3 in The Smithtown News: "SUNY Stony Brook has no need for this road. The existing roadway network surrounding our campus is more than adequate to handle our existing needs, as well as whatever growth might be contemplated in the future."
"I feel that public outcry is premature," Mr. Papadakos said, "especially since the study only speaks about possible uses for Gyrodyne, and then only at a projected date 20 years into the future. Our record here over the last 70-plus years has shown our positive commitment to the local community. For example, we have planted over 10,000 trees and shrubs on our property since the 1960's."
Mr. Papadakos also pointed out that the company had not applied for building permits.
The regional director of the State Transportation Department, Edward Petrou, said no firm plan had been presented.
The Long Island Rail Road also appears to have problems with the plans. "Of the possible uses studied at the Flowerfield property, the reopening of an L.I.R.R. station at the site is not currently feasible," a spokeswoman, Susan McGowan, said.
Ms. McGowan also said the railroad did not intend to close the St. James station in the near future.

GRAPHIC: Map of Smithtown and Brookhave, Long Island highlighting proposed roadway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GYRO (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GYRODYNE CO OF AMERICA INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GYRODYNE FLOWERFIELD (SUFFOLK COUNTY); SMITHTOWN (NY); BROOKHAVEN (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); ELECTRONICS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); TRENDS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); 

PERSON: JALESHGARI, RAMIN P LANCE MALOMO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



216 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Massage Therapy Gains Sign of Acceptance

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW 

 BODY:
WHEN Loretta Filippelli of Holtsville received her diploma in massage therapy from the New Center for Wholistic Health Education and Research and passed the state examination to become a licensed massage therapist, she never expected a college degree, too.
In September the New Center became the New Center College, after the Board of Regents approved four-semester associate's degrees with a major in massage therapy. The program is the first in the nation to offer a degree in massage therapy. 
 "For massage therapists, this gives us more recognition and greater respect," Ms. Filippelli, who has started her own practice, said. "It's a first step toward having the medical profession see us as more credible."
A study in The New England Journal of Medicine in 1993 by Dr. David Eisenberg, director of the Harvard University medical education programs on alternative medicine, reported that 12.6 million Americans used massage therapy in 1990, making 77 million visits to therapists. That year Americans spent $14 billion on alternative medicine, often referred to as holistic medicine, and made a total of 425 million visits to alternative therapists, exceeding the 388 million visits to primary-care doctors.
The president of the New Center College, Steven Schenkman, said: l "Many disillusioned individuals are looking beyond a Western medical system that relies heavily on invasive treatments like surgery and medications with many possible side effects."
The new status, he said, "is part of the evolution of a profession that has been recognized in Eastern cultures for 5,000 years, but is just first becoming recognized and respected in the West."
For students, he added, graduating with associate's degrees is a jump from receiving a trade license at a vocational school to obtaining a professional degree.
The program, which has 350 students, started in 1981. The center also has programs in acupuncture; herbal medicine; Oriental medicine; amma therapy, or specialized massage therapy, and holistic nursing. Mr. Schenkman said the center was planning for bachelor's, master's and clinical doctorate degrees.
At the start of the semester, massage therapy had its largest enrollment, 105 new students. The four-semester program requires 63 credits, leading to an associate degree in occupational studies, with a major in massage therapy. The academic dean of the program, Dr. Robert Borzone, said the curriculum combined courses in Western medicine and Oriental medicine and included clinical internships.
The public is becoming more open minded to complementary medicine, Mr. Schenkman said, adding:
"One of the biggest changes is the realization that this is not a threat to Western medicine, as researchers have found that most patients who seek holistic health care do not abandon their mainstream providers."
Changing attitudes are created new demands on insurance companies. Last month Oxford Health Plans Inc. announced plans to create an alternative-medicine network in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, starting in January.
The manager of alternative medicine for Oxford, Dr. Hasaan Rifaat, said the plan would have four components, a network of providers, insured benefits, education and information and mail-order products.
Oxford said it was recruiting six types of providers, massage therapists, chiropractors, acupuncturists, yoga teachers, diet and nutrition counselors and, just in Connecticut, naturopathic doctors. Customers would receive a list of the providers who would charge a special rate, without referrals from primary physicians, said Dr. Rifaat, who added that the fees would be announced in January. Employers would be able to buy benefits for alternative medicine, for a 3 percent increase in premiums. That would cover chiropractic and acupuncture treatments, with employee co-payments of $10 to $20.
Oxford is expanding to alternative medicine because of customer demand, Dr. Rifaat said. A marketing survey found great interest in alternative therapies, he said, adding, "Our goal is not to have alternative medicine replace conventional medicine, but to expand the choices for our members."
The senior vice president for marketing at Vytra Health Care in Melville, John Kaegi, said Vytra had been considering alternative medicine. "We are trying very hard to build strong relationships between our members and the doctors in our network," he said. "We feel that there is a great need for holistic medicine. But at the same time we feel that the personal physicians are the best judges of treatment for their patients and we'll support whatever the doctors feel is appropriate for their patients. We'd rather defer to the doctors than dictate to them what we feel is necessary for their patients."
The Oxford move will increase demand for holistic therapies, Mr. Schenkman said. "It shows that a major insurance company has carefully studied these healing modalities and validated them," he said, "as well as recognizing that there are standards for education and certification bodies for licensure. This will not only bring more patients to holisitic practitioners, but more people will be interested in pursuing careers in these fields."
Massage therapy has been gaining recognition, Dr. Borzone said, and research shows it has many positive physical and psychological effects.
Dr. Noah Finkel, an orthopedic surgeon and the chief of staff at Huntington Hospital, said he often prescribed massage therapy as part of rehabilitation for patients who had sore necks and backs from car accidents. Aside from being relaxing and soothing, massage releases endorphins, he said, relaxing the muscles.
"Massage can really help you function better," Dr. Finkel said. "There is no downside to massage therapy, except as an economic issue. This has been the conflict for organized medicine and insurance companies. Who's going to pay for it? For how long? And for what indications? In physical therapy there are ways you can define improvement, but in massage therapy, it is more difficult to define an endpoint."
There is no endpoint in massage therapy, Dr. Borzone said, because it not only involves treating a condition as does physical therapy, but also helps maintain health. The effects can be measured, he said, quantitatively and over time, in terms of range of motion and blood pressure.
Patients have reported added energy, better sleeping and improved breathing and digestion. "There are many levels of massage therapy," Dr. Borzone said. "For some people, it's a one-hour vacation, while for others it's a therapy that treats medical conditions."
At the Long Island Jewish Pain and Headache Treatment Center in New Hyde Park, massage therapy is one method to treat chronic pain, said Dr. Robert Duarte, a neurologist at the center.
Physicians have many ways to help with chronic pain. "Many traditional methods," Dr. Duarte said, "have not worked or have not worked to a degree of patient satisfaction. Massage therapy has proven to be very beneficial for headaches and back pain. It not only feels good, but helps to alleviate muscle tension and increase circulation."
Doctors are frequently skeptical about holistic treatment, Dr. Duarte said, but are becoming more open-minded as they hear from patients. "They are starting to become aware that these techniques could be, and should be, used along with traditional modalities," he added.
Therapists from the New Center College have been treating people with Alzheimer's disease who suffer from agitation and anxiety at the Broadlawn Manor Nursing Care Center at South Oaks Hospital in Amityville. The staff of the home reports significant improvement after treatments, said Anneke Young, a practitioner at New Center College, who directs the program.
One patient, a frequent pacer, was found snoring peacefully in her bed after a treatment of massage therapy, Ms. Young said.
The Island Park Medical Care Practice, an outgrowth of the Long Beach Medical Center, is scheduled to open this month. A group of doctors and practitopmers from the New Center College formed this practice to integrate traditional and complementary methods, said Dr. Myles Gombert, medical director of Long Beach Medical Center. The practice will include internal medicine, adolescent medicine and pediatrics, as well as podiatry, midwifery and massage therapy.
For massage therapists, changing attitudes among doctors and insurers, along with the opportunity for an associate's degree, means additional career opportunities, said Tiffany Nixon of Uniondale, a student in the last semester of the massage program. "People graduating are going in all different directions," Ms. Nixon said, "from opening up their own practices to sports medicine to massage therapy in the theater."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Learning methods in therapeutic massage, Denise Delise, a therapy student, gives a massage to Joanne Danzer. (Photographs by Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OXHP (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW CENTER COLLEGE OXFORD HEALTH PLANS LLC (60%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW CENTER COLLEGE HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MASSAGE MASSAGE SERVICES (96%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); CURRICULA (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (68%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA DAVID EISENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



217 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, Downtown's Attraction

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
IN East Hartford the town green is only six months old. A vacant office building was torn down to make space for it. In downtown Stamford, efforts to create an entertainment district have attracted a dozen new restaurants and a half-dozen nightclubs in the last year and a half. In Milford this summer, a city marina opened -- bedecked with a rose garden, walkway and patio -- beckoning customers to downtown businesses.
Around Connecticut, communities are paying more attention to their downtowns or Main Streets. Some started a few years ago, and are seeing results. In downtown Manchester, for example, there were about 25 commercial vacancies in 1993; now there are 3, said Robert Turin, the downtown manager. 
 Many towns are still at the talking stage, trying to determine what direction to take to fill vacant retail and office spaces, attract more people and improve deteriorating buildings and streetscapes.
"What's happened in Connecticut is some of the downtowns have deteriorated so much, a sense of urgency has developed," said Mary Ellen Brigham, who teaches retailing, marketing and strategic selling at the University of Connecticut.
Other towns, like Simsbury, have not deteriorated but are looking for ways to retain their charm while nurturing small businesses that could be a draw for visitors.
The realization among local officials is that with malls and big stores attracting behemoth crowds, most downtowns will never be the epicenters of society they once were. But many are working to maintain or improve the economic vitality and quality of life of their town centers, because they see the entire community linked to their success.
Mr. Turin, of Manchester, said "this is a town that 20 years ago, on a Thursday night, you couldn't move downtown. It was the place to go." He said it wasn't likely to be like that again but he added, "it's mostly leased and it looks pretty nice for a town of 50,000."
The trend is to try to capitalize on existing attributes, such as architecture and waterfronts, as well as to offer goods, services and conveniences that malls do not.
Danbury officials, for example, believe that the days of major retail anchor stores in their downtown are gone; as a result they are negotiating to develop an ice skating arena, says Susan E. Affleck-Childs, executive director of the Danbury downtown business district organization called CityCenter. The ice rink and the Danbury Railway Museum, which opened last April in a former train station, would function similarly to large anchor stores, attracting large numbers of people, she explained.
Ms. Brigham, of UConn, who is also a consultant to towns and retailers, said "What I'm seeing now in Connecticut, and it's just a reflection of what's being done elsewhere in the country, is a more grassroots look at downtown, from the standpoint of what they're unique at, what is their character. And, downtown groups are trying to create an environment that works for that character and customers they already have, or those that are close by that they might not be capturing."
She said that in the past revitalization was often tied to massive structures like malls, coliseums and civic centers, with the hope that they would become magnets for downtown areas. (The Stamford Town Center, the Hartford Civic Center and the New Haven Coliseum are examples.) For the most part, however, people who went to those attractions didn't patronize businesses outside of them, she said.
Now, more towns are attempting to find their centers' niches. This year, five communities are getting help from the Connecticut Main Street Center program. It is part of the National Main Street Center project affiliated with the National Trust for Historic Preservation. East Hartford, New London, Simsbury and Torrington were the first Connecticut municipalities chosen to participate. They don't receive money, but they get assistance that would cost them money to purchase on their own. For instance, consultants in specialties like architecture, design, planning and retail sales help towns devise strategies for their communities. Information and contacts are provided from towns with similar problems and characteristics that have improved their town centers.
Interest in the Main Street Center program, which is supported by Connecticut Light and Power, is growing. Last year, nine Connecticut municipalities applied, said Lisa Bumbera, the program director. Last month, representatives from 30 towns attended a workshop on the program, she said. Up to three towns will be chosen to participate in 1997, she explained, adding that participating towns are in the program for five years.
East Hartford, a participant, is trying to overcome massive competition from the Buckland Hills Mall and surrounding commercial development in Manchester, as well as from West Farms Mall in West Hartford, said Tana M. Parseliti, coordinator of Main Street Plus, the downtown program in East Hartford. A former school is being renovated for use as a community cultural center. The Sage-Allen department store, which closed in 1989, has been rehabilitated to house new businesses. The first tenants are a health club, an executive awards company and a security firm.
Among strategies being used to rejuvenate town centers is the establishment of downtown taxing districts. In those areas, businesses agree to pay a surcharge on top of their local property taxes to finance revitalization of a downtown area. The hope is that they receive a return on their money in the form of more customers and more business.
In Middletown, businesses rejected a proposal to have a special taxing district there. But New Haven downtown businesses recently voted to establish one.
Danbury has had one since 1988. Its budget is about $130,000 a year, said Ms. Affleck-Childs, its executive director. After six years, she said, "the challenges remain, the opportunities are still there. I think what this says is the downtown revitalization process is not a short-term, quick-fix kind of deal. Downtowns didn't get in trouble overnight. They're not going to come out of it overnight."
Stamford, where downtown businesses long complained of not reaping benefits from the Stamford Town Center, has had a special taxing district since 1992 with an annual budget of $650,000. (The town center is the largest financial contributor.) Sandra Goldstein, the district manager, said streets are cleaned seven days a week, bulbs in street lights are replaced as soon as they burn out, flowers are planted, graffiti is removed -- all in the interest of creating "a safe, secure, pedestrian-friendly downtown."
"We still have miles to go," said Mrs. Goldstein, who pointed out that the next challenge is attracting more retail businesses.
Housing is seen as important to a downtown's success because it creates built-in customers for businesses as well as an atmosphere of vitality. Condominiums built in downtown Norwalk have helped the business climate there, Ms. Brigham said. In Stamford, a 400-unit housing complex is under construction on Broad Street, and another 600 units are planned for downtown, Mrs. Goldstein said.
In many places, returning buildings to their original facades as well as creating old-fashioned streetscapes have become popular sprucing-up techniques. And improving traffic patterns and parking are viewed as paramount to being customer-friendly. In Manchester, shoppers get free parking; there are no meters downtown. Long-term parkers -- business owners and employees -- pay a monthly fee for parking-lot spaces farthest from the stores, leaving the close spots for customers. The parking revenue goes to the special taxing district, Mr. Turin explained.
Events like festivals and concerts, are ubiquitous because they are considered essential to introducing people to businesses they might not know exist downtown.
The point officials involved in downtown revitalization stress is that when there are successes, such as new businesses opening, the job has just begun. A flow of customers has to be not only created but maintained.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Downtown Stamford getting livelier: J. Seward Johnson's statue "Who's in Charge," above; Karen Kipp at work in a streetscape program, below, and inside Polly Esther's, bottom. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARCHITECTURE PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); TRAINS (63%); WINTER SPORTS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); ICE SKATING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



218 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 6; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: SLAMMING THE DOOR

 BODY:
No matter how modest the house or apartment, the two generations of children who grew up in postwar economic prosperity in the United States and in my case, Canada, assumed they would return from school each day to the predictable familiarity of home: a place to eat, do homework, reconnect with siblings and parents and generally get on with growing up, secure and fairly well satisfied with life. But as DeParle wrote, how do you do all that for a child when you live on $4.75 an hour?
 
GILLIAN NORRIS-SZANTO
St. Davids, Pa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; FEDERAL AID (US) CHILDREN (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (86%); 

PERSON: NORRIS-SZANTO, GILLIAN; DEPARLE, JASON

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



219 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 4; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: More Electrified Track on Way

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
A CONTROVERSIAL $1.7 billion railroad electrification project has been approved by the State Department of Environmental Protection, with construction work expected to begin in the next few weeks.
Connecticut was the last state to approve the project, which will electrically power 156 miles of track between New Haven and Boston. Sixty-eight miles of rail will be electrified in Connecticut. When the project is completed in October 1999 it will allow electric trains to travel from Washington, D.C., to Boston, and reduce the trip time between New York and Boston from 4.5 hous to 3 hours. By 2010, 34 electric Amtrak trains able to travel as fast as 125 miles per hour are expected to travel the route daily. Presently only 18 Amtrak trains travel between New York and Boston each day with maximum speeds of 90 M.P.H. 
 This project will make Amtrak profitable, said Thomas M. Downs, president of Amtrak, and show that American passenger rail transportation is the future.
Not really, say its critics. After squandering millions of taxpayers' dollars, Amtrak will still be unable to compete with other modes of transportation, says Christopher Percy, of Waterford, a marine environmentalist. The Amtrak right of way that runs right along the coastline of southeast Connecticut will be a more dangerous obstacle forever impeding people from reaching the waterfront or going between Long Island Sound and local embayments, he said. Since first being proposed in 1991, the project has faced stiff resistance from coastal residents and businesses.
Coastal residents and local marine environmentalists said earthen and concrete railroad causeways had blocked the circulation of water between Long Island Sound and local coves and embayments and environmentally degraded waters that were important habitats for shellfish and fin fish. They said the railroad corridor needed to be fixed before it was electrified.
In 1992, $100,000 of Federal and state money was appropriated to study the environmental impact of coastal transportation corridors. But none of the coves or embayments adjacent to railroad causeways were included in the study. The study concluded in 1993 that the Amtrak railroad corridor did not pose a significant environmental problem.
Recreational boaters and marina owners led by the Connecticut Marine Trade Association then became the most significant opposition to the project.
They said the operation of five moveable bridges over the Connecticut River, Niantic River, Shaws Cove, Thames River and Mystic River impeded boat traffic between Long Island Sound and embayments. They said that if Amtrak increased the number of passenger trains traveling daily between New York and Boston from 18 to 52, as was originally planned by Amtrak, marine businesses and the state's coastal economy would suffer.
In addition shoreline businesses dependent on rail freight service said they were concerned the planned increase in rail passenger service would disrupt rail freight service.
Gov. John G. Rowland campaigned against the project, but later changed his position, after Amtrak addressed the concerns of Connecticut residents and businesses, said Governor Rowland's press secretary, Dean Pagani.
Instead of 52 trains each day between New York and Boston, Amtrak will only have 34 trains, said Mr. Pagani. Instead of keeping the bridges closed until sailboats or larger motor boats request an opening, the bridges will remain open from Memorial Day to Columbus Day, until trains are approaching. Five rail sidings will be built to minimize the impact of increased passenger service on existing freight service, Mr. Pagani said.
In response to concerns voiced during hearings in September, Amtrak also agreed to the installation of deflectors and diverters on power lines to lessen the danger of birds being electrocuted. Amtrak will also provide an inspector, acceptable to the State Department of Environmental Protection, who will oversee construction in Connecticut.
Amtrak seems to have addressed recreational boaters' main concerns, said Walter L. Shieferdecker, owner of the Essex Island Marina, and a member of the Connecticut Marine Trade Association.
The hope for David Hersant, president of Citizens for a Sound Environment Inc. (a group composed of coastal residents opposed to electrification), is that Congress may still withhold funding, deciding not to waste the taxpayers' money.
Congress must still appropriate $500 million over the next three years to complete the electrification.
The citizens' group is awaiting a decision in Federal District Court in New Haven on an injunction that would halt construction on the project. The group says that Amtrak did not consider more sensible and less environmentally damaging alternatives such as creating a passenger rail corridor in less environmentally sensitive areas inland, or using trains with gas turbines rather than electrical engines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (CONN) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; BOSTON (MASS); NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL FREIGHT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FISHES (71%); MARINAS (65%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (60%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM THOMAS M DOWNS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



220 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 16; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

VICTORIAN WOMEN
 A symposium on Elizabeth Colt, Harriet Beecher Stowe and other artistically focused Victorian women is scheduled for Saturday from 9:30 to 4 at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford. It is related to the exhibition of Sam and Elizabeth Colt's material possessions and the cultural, economic and political influence they wielded.
Connoiseurship, literature, philanthropy, the civic uses of art and the arbiters of taste will be discussed in 45-minute talks by various experts. 
 Reservations, including admission to the Colt exhibition, cost $25 and a box lunch is available for $13. The number is 860-278-2670, extension 3049, for more information.

RUDE, BUT FUNNY
"Ubu Roi," Alfred Jarry's jarringly vulgar play of a century ago has been revived by the Oddfellows Playhouse Teen Repertory Company, to be performed on Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8 P.M.; next Sunday at 3; Nov. 22 at 8; and Nov. 23 at 3 and 8. All performances will be at the Playhouse, 128 Washington Street in Middletown. Jarry was a teen-ager when he and two classmates created the piece. Constructed in Punch and Judy style, but using live actors, it began as a parody of one of the boys' unpopular teachers. Eight years later it was presented in Paris as an outrageous farce, rebuking contemporary French politics. This production, called "Ubu Rex" is recommended for older teen-agers and adults. Tickets for the preview on Thursday are $4, thereafter the prices are $6 and $8. The number is 860-347-6143 for reservations.

'ROMEO' RELOCATED
A multiracial production of "Romeo and Juliet" imported from Britain will have two performances in Connecticut this week: on Friday at 8 P.M. at the Garde Arts Center in New London, and on Saturday at 8 P.M. at the Lyman Center for the Performing Arts at Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven.
Produced by the Haworth Shakespeare Festival with a cast of actors from the Royal Shakespeare Theater and the Royal National Theater of Britain, the play's text remains intact, but its venue has been moved from 16th-century Verona to contemporary South Africa. The protagonists are no longer Montagues and Capulets but Zulu families.
The Haworth Festival has specialized in revitalizing Shakespearean plays as 20th-century dramas, having done so with an all-black "Macbeth" prior to the "Romeo and Juliet" production.
Danny Carrick, one of England's young directors, put "Romeo and Juliet" on stage, and Francis Gallop, the production designer, has costumed the cast in regal African fabrics.
Tickets in New London are priced from $16 to $30 and may be reserved by calling 860-444-7373. The theater is at 325 State Street. New Haven ticket prices are $16, or $14 for people over 65. The number is 203-392-6154 for reservations.

NEPTUNE'S JOURNEY
In 1796 the 350-ton, full-rigged Neptune set sail from New Haven for the Far East. Two years and 8 months later it returned with a treasure trove of tea, silk, porcelain, 80,000 South American sealskins and other luxury goods.
A new exhibition at the New Haven Colony Historical Society traces that journey and the daily lives of the 36 men in the crew, their 30-year-old Captain, Daniel Greene; his mate, 26-year-old John Hurlbut, and the 21-year-old ship's doctor, David Forbes. Five men died during the voyage, from scurvy, flu and drowning.
Their ship, which carried 20 cannons, rounded Cape Horn twice and called at a number of ports including the Falkland Islands, Patagonia, the Sandwich Islands and Macao. The historical society's display of porcelain, sea chests, medical handbooks, engravings, paintings, items of clothing, albatross eggs, a stuffed penguin and a grass skirt has been drawn in part from relics of the voyage, and from museum collections appropriate to the period.
The historical society is at 114 Whitney Avenue in New Haven and is open Tuesday through Friday from 10 to 5, Saturday and Sunday from 2 to 5. Admission is $2, $1.50 for adults over 65, and $1 for children 6 through 16. A guided tour and Chinese tea-tasting at no extra charge is scheduled for Nov. 24 at 3 P.M. The number is 203-562-4183 for more information.

PROVOCATIVE ART
A provocative exhibition of contemporary art by Hachivi Edgar Heap of Birds, a Cheyenne Arapaho from Norman, Okla., is at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford.
Works by Mr. Heap of Birds may be seen through Nov. 24, the outdoor portion displayed on the lawn facing Main Street. Titled "Dunging the Ground" it refers to the massacre of the Pequots in 1637, when Capt. John Mason wrote in his account that "this was God crushing his enemies, burning them in fire, dunging the ground with their flesh . . ."
Mr. Heap of Birds first learned of the war that all but destroyed the Pequot population last summer during a visit to Foxwoods Resort Casino, where a presentation celebrated the rebirth of a Pequot cultural identity.
Indoors there is an installation called "16 Songs/Issues of Personal Assessment and Indigenous Renewal," conceived and executed by Mr. Heap of Birds and artists from the Boomali Aboriginal Artists Cooperative in Sydney, Australia, and the Tandanya National Institute of Aboriginal Art in Adelaide.
Sixteen works by the Australians and several abstract paintings and drawings by Mr. Heap of Birds are involved with words -- resistance, new growth, patience -- pointing up a common bond of travails concerning sovereignty and civil rights at opposite sides of the globe.

CIVIL WAR DIARIES
The nature of civil wars tends to be more heartbreakingly personal than those fought in foreign lands by strangers. And America's Civil War is brought up close, personal and in meticulous detail in five diaries kept by a soldier from Stamford named Noah Webster Hoyt.
His notebooks have been reproduced by the Stamford Historical Society in one volume that also contains biographical and bibliographical information. The price is $14.95. A reception for the book will be held at the society's headquarters, 1508 High Ridge Road, today from 3 to 5 P.M. when the originals, stored in the society archives for years and yellowed with age, will be displayed under glass.
Noah Hoyt was a 26-year-old carpenter when he answered the call for volunteers in 1862 and enlisted in Company A of the 28th Regiment Connecticut Volunteers, the unit credited with helping gain control of the Mississippi River for the Union. He was joined by 177 fellow-townsmen, many of whom were school chums and co-workers; 37 never returned. For more information the number is 203-329-1183. ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: GARDE ARTS CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARDE ARTS CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (78%); FRANCE (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (68%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ADOLESCENTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TICKET SALES (75%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); BRITISH MONARCHS (68%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (62%); 

PERSON: ELIZABETH COLT HARRIET BEECHER (79%); EDGAR HEAP (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



221 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: With Help From the Top, Democrats Gain

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
WHEN James H. Maloney, a Danbury Democrat, was campaigning for the Fifth District Congressional seat, he attended 32 candidate forums. In all but one, he was the only major party candidate there because the Republican incumbent, Gary A. Franks, of Waterbury, declined the invitations. Mr. Maloney attributed his victory in last Tuesday's election partly to just this difference: his presence at such events and his opponent's absence.
"The irony is, had he participated in the dialogue, he may very well have ended up winning the election," Mr. Maloney said of Mr. Franks, a three-term Congressman. 
 With his victory, Mr. Maloney became the first Democrat to represent the Fifth District since William R. Ratchford held the seat from 1979 through 1984. And Mr. Franks became the first incumbent United States Representative from Connecticut to lose since Mr. Ratchford was defeated in 1984 by John G. Rowland, now the Governor.
For Mr. Maloney, the focus now turns to working in Congress, where he said he plans to concentrate on education, economic development and providing services to constituents in his diverse district, which includes the cities of Danbury, Meriden and Waterbury, blue collar Naugatuck Valley towns, and wealthy Fairfield County suburbs.
Mr. Maloney's victory gives Democrats a 4-to-2 majority in the state's Congressional delegation, the first time since the 1982 election that they have held such an edge.
In the General Assembly, Democrats took a 19-to-17 majority in the State Senate, pending expected recounts in two districts, and expanded their majority to 97-54 in the State House of Representatives, pending any recounts. For the last two years, Republicans held a 19-17 majority in the Senate and Democrats had a 91-60 margin in the House. For the remaining two years of his current term, Governor Rowland, a Republican, will be facing Democratic majorities in both houses of the General Assembly.
In the Congressional races, the surprise was that the closest contest was in the Sixth District where the incumbent seven-term Republican, Representative Nancy L. Johnson of New Britain, squeaked by her Democratic challenger, Charlotte Koskoff of Plainville.
Representative Sam Gejdenson, Democrat of Bozrah, who won re-election in the Second District by only 21 votes two years ago, had a much more comfortable margin of about 12,000 votes this time around. He defeated his three-time Republican challenger, Edward W. Munster, of Haddam, who said he will not run again.
Two other Democratic Representatives, Barbara Bailey Kennelly of Hartford and Rosa L. DeLauro of New Haven, easily won re-election in the First and Third Districts, respectively.
Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Stamford, defeated his Democratic challenger, Bill Finch of Bridgeport, in the Fourth District which extends from Greenwich through Bridgeport.
Voters on Tuesday also approved an amendment to the State Constitution guaranteeing certain rights to crime victims. Among other guarantees, victims may make statements before approval of plea bargaining and sentencing, and be notified of court proceedings and status of the defendent, and receive restitution. Members of the Connecticut chapter of the organization Survivors of Homicide have said they will propose increasing these rights in the future.
As for the new General Assembly, which takes office in January, Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, Democrat of West Hartford, who plans to seek the Senate position of President Pro Tempore following his election to a sixth term, set a conciliatory tone for the relationship between the Democratic legislators and the Republican Governor.
"Let's discover what we can agree on. Let's discover what we can work on," said Mr. Sullivan, adding, "Our goal would be to find very few opportunities where there would be bills vetoed by the Governor."
State Senator George Jepson, a Stamford Democrat who was re-elected to a fourth term, has said he will run for the post of Senate Majority Leader. He previously served two terms in the House.
In the House, the incumbent Speaker, Thomas Ritter, Democrat of Hartford, is expecting a challenge from Representative William Dyson of New Haven for the presiding officer's post.
Both Democrats and Republicans said Democrats got a boost from President Clinton's overwhelming success in the state. The Republican State Chairman, Chris DePino, called it remarkable that so many Republican candidates did win in the wake of what he called a "Clinton tidal wave." He also said that many Democrats were successful because they ran on what he called Republican issues -- cutting taxes, reforming welfare and reducing the size of government.
"We're going to hold their feet to the fire to make sure they not only talk the talk, but walk the walk," said Mr. DePino, who was uncontested in his own race for re-election to a State House seat from New Haven.
Mr. Gejdenson said he was helped in his eastern Connecticut district not only by the Clinton plurality, but also by the way Mr. Clinton articulated the Democrats' positions on such issues as Medicare, education and the environment.
This, he said, helped voters "see the differences much more clearly this time" between him and his challenger. "We won by more than 21 votes," the elated Democrat joked in an interview. Mr. Gejdenson, who won re-election to a ninth term and is the dean of Connecticut's House delegation, said he will focus on campaign finance reform, student loans and trade issues in the next two years.
Mr. Maloney acknowledged that he benefited from Mr. Clinton's performance in his district. It was the first time that a Democratic Presidential candidate carried the Fifth District since 1968 when Hubert H. Humphrey was the Democratic candidate.
According to the Secretary of the State's office, 1.97 million people were registered to vote. The number of unaffiliated voters has grown 21 percent since 1988, while Democratic and Republican registrations have dropped. The Secretary of the State's active voter list shows 727,381 unaffiliated voters, 668,247 Democrats, 470,774 Republicans and 3,511 minor party members.
Mr. Franks attributed his loss to negative television advertising waged by his opponent. He said he had the lead in the race until Mr. Maloney ran an advertisement featuring a rat. It was meant to show that Mr. Franks had run-down rental properties in Waterbury. Mr. Franks said he no longer owns the properties. But Mr Maloney contended that the Republican sold them to a corporation in which he owns stock.
"We had him as the incumbent accountable on a whole range of issues," Mr. Maloney said. "I think it's the job of a challenger to hold an incumbent accountable for his tenure in office."
Mr. Franks, who was one of two black Republicans in the House, also complained about allegations by Mr. Maloney that a $100,000 advance Mr. Franks had received for his autobiography from a publishing company owned by Rupert Murdoch was a quid pro quo for votes that would benefit Mr. Murdoch.
"All is fair in love and politics," Mr. Franks said after his loss. The Republican's re-election campaign was marked by a low-key style in which he declined a number of invitations for speaking engagements and press interviews, as well as the forums mentioned by Mr. Maloney, and was slow to respond to Mr. Maloney's criticisms.
On election night, he described himself as a victim of "six years of personal smear campaigns," saying that personal attacks "have all been lies." His first comment to his supporters on election night was, "To a degree, I feel relieved." He has talked of running for the United States Senate.
In the State Senate, in a closely watched race in the 28th Senatorial district, the Republican incumbent, Fred H. Lovegrove of Fairfield, overcame a well-financed challenge by Thomas G. Ganim, Democrat of Easton. Mr. Ganim, the brother of the Mayor of Bridgeport, Joseph P. Ganim, raised more than $175,000, compared with average spending of $17,074 by State Senate challengers two years ago, according to Common Cause of Connecticut.
Nearly 20 percent of the incumbent state legislators were unopposed, the largest number in at least 20 years, said the Secretary of the State, Miles S. Rapoport. The Democratic State Chairman, Edward L. Marcus, said that trend is not healthy.
"Uncontested elections can make the office holders feel they are kind of invincible and why should they care," he said. "They can create a group of pretty cocky, self-important people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative-elect James H. Maloney, Danbury Democrat, and a supporter celebrate victory. (The Associated Press) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (54%); STATE SENATE (67%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (67%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (72%); APPROVALS (64%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: MALONEY, JAMES H; FRANKS, GARY A (REPR); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); MCCARTHY, PEGGY ROSA DELAURO (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



222 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Rezoning Commercial Land to Meet Housing Needs

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FOR half a century a 65-acre site in the middle of the Essex County suburb of Nutley was home to ITT. But over the last few years the sprawling building that once housed the company's avionics and military and electronics division was torn down, including its 325-foot research tower.
The vacant site, bounded by River and Kingsland Roads and Washington Avenue, has since been rezoned for housing. And now a developer is advancing plans to reshape it into a residential community of up to 615 homes. The project would cost more than $50 million, including the price of the land. 
 In Hanover Township a 41-acre site off Route 10, approved for 500,000 square feet of office space that was never built, also has been rezoned. There, plans are moving forward for a subdivision of 40 single-family detached houses that would cost more than $13 million, including the cost of the land.
The two projects, along with a spate of others in various stages of the approval process in such towns as West Orange and Fort Lee, underscore developer interest in turning commercially zoned land into housing.
Most of the sites are in North Jersey where large chunks of vacant land are in short supply and the demand for housing, at this time at least, is greater than for office or industrial space, developers, local officials and industry analysts said.
It is an important new trend because "there are no alternative uses for most of these sites," said Robert Burchell, an urban planning professor at the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
The sites are appealing for residential use for many of the same reasons they were appealing for commercial use: They are sizable and near highways and job centers.
Still, their commercial potential was never realized, despite an improving office and industrial market. The office sector alone "is at a break point with Class A space in short supply," which could be depleted by next year leading to new construction, said Donald P. Eisen, senior managing director of the New York area at the East Rutherford office of the Cushman & Wakefield brokerage.
Companies will look to be on superhighways, like Interstates 287 and 78 and farther west and south in the state where the labor markets are, said Mr. Eisen. Closer-in sites can work if they are near highways and developers are creative, he added.
Rezoning them to housing, however, also raises a number of issues for towns that are grappling with ways to expand their tax base while preserving residents' quality of life. A key concern is that such development not overburden municipal services, particularly roads and schools.
Those are concerns of officials in Mine Hill. After years of litigation that ended in a 1991 settlement the Morris County township rezoned 240 commercially zoned acres on Canfield Avenue for 800 town houses and condominium and rental apartments.
"There is a demand for start-up housing in that area," said Jeffrey Freireich, of the $60 million project that still must be approved by the township. He is executive vice president of the Kushner Companies of Florham Park, which owns the site and sued Mine Hill.
MEANWHILE local officials, worried the project would double their community's population of 3,300, are exploring the possibility of buying the property. "That question goes to the electorate this winter," said Joseph J. Bell, the Mine Hill Township lawyer, noting there would be a special referendum early next year.
But Dr. Burchell said switching to housing could make sense for some municipalities because of market trends. He said up to 75 percent of the housing demand for the next 15 years will be from baby boomers -- empty-nester and childless couples -- as well as single people. Providing zoning opportunities for housing catering to this "mobile middle class" could put the land into productive use, generate a reasonable revenue stream and have limited impact on local services, he said.
To work, Dr. Burchell said, such projects should be upscale gated communities. They would also offer many recreational amenities and someone else to do the maintenance for buyers as well as a low bedroom count for towns, he said.
That is the direction of the residential community proposed for the former ITT property. Nutley officials found the site held no promise for commercial use now or in the near future and rezoned it for housing last February. The decision came after months of heated discussions and deliberations over the potential impact of putting housing on the site, among the last large developable tracts in the community. (Indeed, a residents' group has filed a lawsuit against the rezoning.)
The project, which still must be approved by the township planning board, represents the first sizable residential development proposed in Nutley in decades. As now envisioned it would be a gated community of up to 615 units -- from single-family homes to luxury town houses and condominium apartments. Among the amenities planned are a clubhouse, swimming pools and fitness trail. It would be built by Town and Country, a division of Whiteweld, Barrister & Brown, a real estate investment company with offices in Woodcliff Lake and Manhattan. The company is under contract to buy the site from ITT contingent on approvals, said Joseph L. DiBernardo, senior vice president of Town and Country.
Mr. DiBernardo said his company became involved in the site 18 months ago because finding so large a tract so close to Manhattan in a "sweetheart" of a residential suburb was rare. He said the mix of housing and prices -- in the low $100,000 to $300,000 range -- would appeal to "multiple markets," from empty-nester and professional couples to the elderly and some families, which would keep the number of school-age children in check. He said he was hopeful construction would start this spring.
"The objective now is to make sure everything that the developers promised is realized and that Nutley comes out with the best project" with the least amount of impact on services, said Mayor Gary J. Furnari who took office after the rezoning.
In Hanover, township officials rezoned the 41 acres off Route 10 after seeing the office developer go bankrupt and the site sit idle for 10 years. Deputy Mayor Sal Iannaccone said the reason was simple: "There is a glut of offices on the market nearby and though the site was approved for offices that use was incompatible with its residential neighbors."
Housing also "is the best ending" because it will generate less traffic, Mr. Iannaccone said, noting that it would have limited impact on schools. And because the homes will be clustered, 26 acres will be left as public open space, some of which will turned into a soccer field, he said.
THE project, which still must be approved by the township's planning board, is to have 40 homes, averaging 2,400 square feet in size, and set on one-quarter-acre lots. Prices are expected to be in the $300,000 range, said Joseph Forgione, a principal at Sterling Properties Group of Livingston, the developer. The company purchased the site last year from Citibank, which took it back through a foreclosure in the late 80's.
Mr. Forgione said his company had purchased the site because "there is a pent-up demand for new housing in the area." The site's location in a desirable town and close to major roadways, including I-80 and I-287 was another factor, he said, noting that construction would begin once the approvals were granted.
A similar story is unfolding in Fort Lee. There Avalon Properties, based in New Caanan, Conn., with offices in Princeton, has been pursuing a rezoning since 1992 for 13 acres off Route 4 that could accommodate 850,000 square feet of offices. Instead it wants to build 350 high-end rentals in six four-story buildings at a cost of $53 million, including land. The design was modified from 525 units in three taller buildings, to meet neighbors' concerns.
"We see an enormous gap in the rental market in Fort Lee, where rental housing hasn't been built since 1972," said Jeffrey B. Albert, an Avalon vice president. "Properly zoned sites for multifamily housing just do not exist, they have to be created; and some of the best sites around are those zoned for office." He said he was optimistic construction would start next summer.
Fort Lee Administrator Peggy Thomas said that, while the option was that the site remain undeveloped, community concerns over the project's impact on schools still must be addressed.
And in West Orange township officials are considering a developer's request to rezone 55 acres off Route 280. The site is approved for 900,000 square feet of office space.
Roseland Property Company of Roseland together with BNE, a Livingston-based development company, wants to build a community of six single-family homes and 198 town houses. It would cater to the empty-nester market in the area, which is strong, said Marshall B. Tycher, a Roseland principal. He said the project would cost more than $45 million, including the cost of the land.
Murray L. Palent, president of the West Orange Township Council, said he supported the rezoning. The housing project, would put a dormant site to use and though it would produce less tax revenue than the commercial project it would produce less traffic and, like the community's other town-house projects, not have an impact on municipal services, said Mr. Palent. "It could be a win-win for West Orange," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rendering of town houses proposed for Nutley development. (Licht/Levine); Drawing of a residence in proposal for a housing complex in West Orange. (The Martin Architectural Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NUTLEY (NJ); WEST ORANGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); AVIONICS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE DAVID DAVIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



223 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3130 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Have Harlem on Their Mind

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
LONG past its legendary prime, the great crosstown thoroughfare wheezed with decay. Mammoth projects intended to stimulate redevelopment were announced by Mayor after Mayor, Governor after Governor, while news reports conveyed assurances that a rebirth of the fabled strip was right around the corner. But the corner was never turned.
Then, major retailers woke up to the fact that there was still a lot of pedestrian traffic on the street. Consumers, in other words. Momentum began to build; not through massive state intervention but a patchwork of smaller-scale private investment. Soon, the area had even attracted the Walt Disney Company. 
 No, this is not another tale of 42d Street. But those involved with the latest attempts to rebuild 125th Street (officially Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard) are mindful of the mid-Manhattan success story, which followed years of inertia and skepticism.
"If they can get 42d Street under way, we can certainly get 125th Street under way," said Barbara Norris, president of the not-for-profit Harlem Commonwealth Council, which controls several key properties along the street, including the site of the $56 million Harlem U.S.A. shopping and entertainment center.
Gov. George E. Pataki sounded a similar theme, saying: "You don't succeed in moving forward if you rebuild Wall Street and 42d Street but ignore 125th Street. We think we're going to find success with all three."
Some modest success is already evident, as three big retailers who have recently discovered 125th Street -- Duane Reade Drugs, Rite Aid Pharmacy and Blockbuster Video -- all report brisk business.
"Something's getting ready to happen, as opposed to the constant paralysis, analysis and talk, talk, talk," said Deborah C. Wright, president and chief executive of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation, which is to share $300 million over 10 years in Federal, state and city funds with the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation.
"The important signal to send to the private community is that we're getting started," said Ms. Wright, who was formerly the city's housing commissioner.
Two weeks ago $11.2 million in financing was authorized for Harlem U.S.A. by the New York Empowerment Zone Corporation, which oversees the Federally designated zone in Manhattan and the Bronx where redevelopment projects can qualify for government aid and tax credits.
Charles A. Gargano, the state's Commissioner of Economic Development and chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said the goal was to "give the private sector the confidence they need and then move out of the way."
"I can think of no area facing as intense development activity as 125th Street," said Randy Daniels, senior vice president and deputy commissioner for economic revitalization at the Empire State Development Corporation, who has lived in the Sugar Hill district of Harlem since 1980.
For all of the hopeful talk, however, there is no firm timetable yet for any of the major projects. And 125th Street can be as daunting as it is promising. African Square, at the intersection of Seventh Avenue (Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard), rivals almost any mid-Manhattan crossroads for crowding, bustle and energy. But 125th Street has more than its share of shuttered storefronts, vacant lots and deferred dreams. A sign at the corner of Old Broadway, for example, announces an impending renovation sponsored by the City of New York -- Edward Koch, Mayor.
"Sometimes," Councilwoman C. Virginia Fields said, "the gap is too wide between announcements and a readiness to do something. That leads to discouragement."
Speaking of the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, which was dissolved and reconstituted as the Harlem Community Development Corporation, Councilman Adam Clayton Powell 4th noted, "There were too many projects on the drawing board and too few bricks were laid."
So what makes the current prospects any different from all the false starts of the past? For one thing, Ms. Wright said, "There's a readily identifiable and real pool of capital that can make some of the projects a reality."
CHARLES MILLARD, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said a reduction in crime had allowed stores to stay open later. He also said the Giuliani administration's crackdown on street vendors had cleared away what had been a pedestrian hazard.
"All over the neighborhood you see revitalization," said Phillip Morrow, the president of the South Bronx development corporation, who lives in Harlem and was formerly development director for the Harlem Urban Development Corporation. He discerns a confluence of events, beginning with the reopening of the Apollo Theater in 1983 and leading to "more home ownership, middle-class blacks moving back, renovating buildings and buying condominiums.
"You've got people with money to spend in their pockets on 125th Street," he said.
That has not escaped the attention of national and regional retailers, who have begun to settle in on the street.
"The suburban marketplace has become saturated," said Darren Walker, director of development and public affairs at the Abyssinian Development Corporation, an independent offshoot of the Abyssinian Baptist Church and co-developer of the $15 million Pathmark project on East 125th Street.
"Let's be frank here," Mr. Walker said. "It's not altruism that's driving it. It's the bald fact that there's money to be made in urban communities."
Ms. Wright noted that there were more than 500,000 people in upper Manhattan. "The real question is why did it take the Gap so long to figure that out?" she asked. "That having been said, the thing that is going to push this strip over the top has not yet happened. It's going to take something like Harlem U.S.A. to take the cover off."
Harlem U.S.A. would occupy an L-shaped parcel on the south side of 125th Street, between St. Nicholas Avenue and Eighth Avenue (Frederick Douglass Boulevard). The project is being developed by Grid Properties and the Gotham Organization, in association with an affiliate of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, which owns most of the land. The building has been designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and the Simmons Design Group of Brooklyn.
On the first and second floors of the glassy 275,000-square-foot structure would be a Disney Store of 6,000 square feet; Gap, 6,000 square feet; Chase Manhattan Bank, 6,000 to 7,000 square feet, replacing the branch that is now on the site; Showman's Cafe, 5,000 square feet, replacing the club that is now on the site; Radio Shack, 2,500 square feet and Watch World, 500 square feet.
A 15,000-square-foot book store and a 15,000-square-foot music store are also expected to be part of the project, said Drew Greenwald, president of Grid Properties.
Ms. Norris said the board of the Commonwealth Holding Company, a for-profit subsidiary of the council, "did not want a strip of discount retailers who were going to compete with existing businesses."
Above the stores would be a nine-screen Cineplex Odeon movie theater, with as many as 3,000 seats. Above that would be a 2,000-seat mini-arena with an ice-skating rink, operated by Recreation World.
Mr. Greenwald hopes tenants will be found for 75 percent of the space by year's end, with leases signed for as much as 50 percent. The developers expect to meet 10 percent of the cost with their own equity, 10 percent through the state's Metropolitan Economic Revitalization Fund and 60 percent through conventional bank financing. The other 20 percent would come through the Empowerment Zone Corporation.
One key parcel on St. Nicholas Avenue is owned by the city, which intends to sell it to the Harlem U.S.A. project through a sole-source contract, rather than going through a request for proposals. "We want a fair price, but mostly we want their project to be completed," Mr. Millard said.
The city's economic agency is also lending $1.5 million to the Pathmark project, which would include a supermarket and a Chase Manhattan Bank branch in a 53,000-square-foot structure between Lexington and Third Avenues. There would also be an underground parking garage. The project is being developed by the Community Association of the East Harlem Triangle and Abyssinian. It was designed by Garrison McNeil & Associates.
The bulk of the financing is an $8.3 million loan from Chase. "We have put our financial resources and influence behind this so other private-sector investors would be able to see that it is possible to make a successful investment in the Harlem community," said Carol Parry, the bank's managing director for community development.
Other financing consists of a $2.5 million equity investment from a real-estate fund known as the Retail Initiative; a $1.1 million loan from the Metropolitan Economic Revitalization Fund; a $1 million loan from the Local Initiatives Support Corporation; a $700,000 grant from the Empire State Development Corporation and $400,000 grant from the Federal Government.
The developers are now reviewing design elements on a line-by-line basis, Mr. Walker said, since the general contractors' bids came in higher than expected.
Also in the pipeline are more tentative projects like a Magic Johnson Theater, with at least 10 screens and 3,000 seats, between Third and Second Avenues. The Magic Johnson chain is being developed nationwide as a joint venture between Sony Theaters and the Johnson Development Corporation.
Councilman Powell said the theater could be the anchor for a mall that would occupy the entire block. "This could be the biggest economic development project in the history of Harlem," he said.
The president of the Los Angeles-based theater chain, Kenneth Lombard, was a bit more restrained. "We're very committed to making the project happen," he said, "but as with all projects at this stage, there are a lot of loose ends we need to tie up."
Still evolving is the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Diagnostic and Treatment Center proposed at Morningside Avenue, which would be developed by the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and the Commonwealth Holding Fund. The building would include an 18,000-square-foot primary care center and 13,000 square feet of retail space. But the overall size of the building has yet to be determined, said Maureen Connelly, a spokeswoman for the project, as that would depend on the needs of potential commercial tenants in the upper floors.
Councilwoman Fields has voiced her concern that the building be more strongly oriented to commercial and retail uses, in keeping with the nature of 125th Street.
Even more tentative are the state's plans for the site on Lenox Avenue (Malcolm X Boulevard) that had been set aside for the 22-story Harlem International Trade Center, an office tower and hotel that was scrapped last year by the Pataki administration. Mr. Daniels would say only that he was working on a "significant retail and commercial project."
As nebulous as these undertakings may be, there have been tangible signs of progess on 125th Street. Earlier this year, Carver Federal Savings Bank moved into its new $5 million headquarters, a four-story, 25,000-square-foot granite-clad building near Lenox Avenue, designed by the Simmons Design Group. Its earlier headquarters were destroyed by a fire in 1993.
"We could have put this building somewhere else," said Howard Dabney, vice president and chief lending officer at Carver. "But that's not our commitment. That's not our mission. We think Harlem is a viable place to do business."
Elsewhere on the street, the Metro-North Commuter Railroad is currently rebuilding its station above Park Avenue. New windows have been installed throughout the 13-story Theresa Towers office building on Seventh Avenue. Leonard Goldman, whose family owns the Theresa, said an elevator modernization was also in the works.
The gleaming structure is known in the history books (and on a fading sign on its western facade) as the Hotel Theresa, once renowed as the "Waldorf of Harlem." It was designated an official landmark in 1993.
There are two other official landmarks on 125th Street: the Apollo Theater, near Eighth Avenue, and the former Mount Morris Bank, at Park Avenue. The Apollo has had its problems -- state officials have written off as unrecoverable about $11 million in loans for its renovation. And the bank has been abandoned so long that small trees are growing out of its cornices and windows.
THESE are not the only trouble spots. Having constructed a new building at 125th Street and Fifth Avenue, the National Black Theater finds itself without the $1 million needed to bring an adjacent older structure up to code. Moreover, state officials want to install a real estate firm to manage the property, which includes commercial tenants. The building was designed by Gerard Paul and its facade includes reliefs by Ade Bisi, a Nigerian artist.
Barbara Ann Teer, founder and director of the theater, resents the state's intrusion. "We're the only building that has no graffiti," she said. "The tenants are satisfied and we are 100 percent rented. Yet we need professional management?"
City officials have transferred management of the 10-year-old Mart 125, a two-level indoor market with vendors' stalls, to the Masjid Malcolm Shabazz Mosque, which operates the lots on 116th Street to which street vendors were relocated. "The mart was supposed to be an incubator for small entrepreneurs but became tainted by politics," said Mr. Daniels. "You didn't have to pay rent if you knew the right person."
But Councilwoman Fields still believes the mart offers a "real opportunity to help stabilize 125th Street" if it is turned over to a cooperative composed of the merchants.
Another disappointment is the Ben & Jerry's Homemade ice-cream parlor at Fifth Avenue, which opened with much fanfare in 1992. "It has not been one of our more profitable stores," said Lee Holden, a spokesman for the company. Although the store is still open, its future is unclear because the building is for sale. "Definitely, we want to maintain a presence in Harlem and are looking at options," Mr. Holden said.
More recent arrivals in more heavily trafficked locations have fared much better.
Cater-corner from the Harlem U.S.A. site, is a 7,000-square-foot Duane Reade drugstore. It opened in May 1994 and is now "one of the fastest-growing" outlets in the 60-store chain, said Anthony J. Cuti, chief executive of Duane Reade.
"We wanted to be in Harlem because we felt that the community was underserved," Mr. Cuti said. "We felt that this was an opportunity for us and would be a welcome contribution." He said a "significant effort" had been made to hire the store's 35 employees from the neighborhood.
Four months after Duane Reade arrived, Rite Aid opened a block away. It moved to its current location, a 7,000-square-foot store directly across 125th Street from the Harlem U.S.A. site, in January 1995. About 25 people work there.
More prescriptions are now filled there than in any of the 110 other Rite Aid stores in the city, said John Lewandowski, the market manager for the New York metropolitan area. Business at the store exceeded projections and expectations, he said.
Last March, a 3,500-square-foot Blockbuster Video store opened near Lenox Avenue. The Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation is "very pleased at the reception the store has received," said a spokeswoman, Mariesa McClafferty. She said the store was receiving an average of 150 membership applications a day.
At the corner of Eighth Avenue, the city's second Krispy Kreme Doughnut franchise, a 1,200-square-foot shop, is to open next month, making it the northernmost outpost of the famed Southern chain. The first New York store is in Chelsea, on 23d Street.
The choice of the second location was easy, said Jonathan E. Faber, vice president of operations. "We drove to Harlem, we saw the volume, we saw the rejuvenation going on," he said. "Krispy Kreme, we figured, would be perfect up there. It was pure instinct. We just saw a future."
The building into which Krispy Kreme is moving is owned by the United House of Prayer for All People. It gained national notoriety last year when one of the commercial tenants, Freddy's clothing store, was set ablaze by a gunman who killed eight persons, including himself. The incident followed a dispute between Freddy's white proprietor, Fred Harari, and a black subtenant, Sikhulu Shange of the Record Shack.
"That's past history," Mr. Faber said. "It could happen anywhere. We saw it as a totally isolated incident."
WHETHER coincidental or symptomatic, the fire at Freddy's reminded New Yorkers that racial tension has long been part of the streetscape, as residents chafed at the dominance of white businesses and landowners. That is not likely to abate as more large corporations move in, driving rents up.
"One camp would prefer that all the businesses on 125th Street remain or be community owned," said Kevin McGruder, chief operating officer of the Abyssinian Development Corporation. "But I don't think that's realistic. When you look at the demand, people are going out of the community to get the things they want; a lot of times to get things these retailers are going to bring. The businesses aren't being universally welcomed, but my sense is that a majority of people want that. They're leaving the community to go to the movies."
Or to go to a good drugstore, Mr. Morrow said, until Duane Reade arrived. Some people even cross state lines to buy groceries. "Anybody who's mobile uptown goes to New Jersey or Westchester to shop," Mr. Daniels said. "Until you get a Pathmark on 125th Street, you're not going to keep those dollars in the community."
To judge from an informal survey, uptown customers think there is room and need for both local merchants and larger operators. "Across the board, we're hearing people say they want more black-owned businesses," said Barbara Askins, president of the 125th Street Business Improvement District. "But they also want a Modell's, a brand-name clothing store, a Conway, a Tad's steakhouse."
Ms. Askins's office has been distributing questionnaires asking, among other things, what businesses people would like to see on 125th Street. One respondent said he wanted to see an African market -- and an airlines ticket office. Another wish list reflected the fact that Harlem residents are hard-pressed to find the most basic amenities.
The respondent, a young teacher who lives on upper Madison Avenue, hopes to see a Gap on 125th Street, as well as Domino's, Parade of Shoes, TCBY, Staples and Wendy's. But there is something else, she said: "A nice clean deli and fruit stand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harlem U.S.A., with 275,000 square feet, would include a Disney Store, Gap, nine-screen Cineplex Odeon theater and ice-skating rink. (Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and Simmons Architects); Newcomers to 125th Street like Duane Reade, Rite Aid and Blockbuster Video are now found among such landmarks as Theresa Towers (center) and the National Black Theater (detail at right). (Jack Manning/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Rendering of planned Pathmark, which will include Chase bank branch. (Garrison McNeil & Associates); Site of Harlem U.S.A. shopping and entertainment center on 125th St. (Jack Manning/The New York Times) (pg. 6)
 
Map of the proposed Harlem U.S.A. showing the location of various stores. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (71%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (71%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (66%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (71%); BB LIQUIDATING INC (66%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); WINTER SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



224 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
Where the Memories Outnumber the Men

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

DATELINE: ORADELL

 BODY:
One thing could be said for this day. At least Fred Hansen didn't know the guy now resting in a box.
Mr. Hansen, 84, a World War II veteran who is food chairman for American Legion Post 41, was trying to make a little bit of money for the post by renting out the lodge for a stranger's wake. But the process brought up something most uneasy. And as Mr. Hansen prepared the coffee and set up the food trays for this man's remembrance in Oradell's Veterans Memorial Building, he was overcome with thoughts of other veterans who had recently succumbed to age. 
 "My post commander died last week and we had two others go out last month," said Mr. Hansen, a 52-year Legion member who was an Army corporal in North Africa in World War II. "We're trying to keep this place going but I fear the handwriting is on the wall. We're dropping like flies."
As they gather Monday to observe Veterans Day, members of the Legion and the nation's other leading veterans' group, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, may well wonder who will lay the wreaths and march in the parades when they no longer can. The Legion and the V.F.W., products of the first World War and the Spanish-American War, respectively, are facing the prospect of a sharp membership loss as their mainstay, World War II veterans, die off.
This is certainly true in Oradell, where the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars share a lovingly self-built meeting hall. On the walls are names or portraits of their dead friends, most prominently Staff Sgt. Thomas H. Cordes, a blue-eyed radio operator and gunner in a bomber squadron who was one of the first hometown boys shot down in the air war in Europe. In cabinets are their helmets, ribbons and other mementos of combat, while behind the bar and flanking the rickety meeting table is the flag for which they fought.
The groups' meetings are a bittersweet remembrance, half taken up with talk of the recently dead, otherwise wondering how to keep their organizations afloat. While each lodge can boast more than 120 members, many are men already in their 80's who have joined both groups in an effort to artificially increase their numbers. And a good meeting night still brings out only about 15 of the faithful.
After opening prayers, the pledge of allegiance comes with a sharp salute, minutes are read and it's down to business at a recent V.F.W. meeting. "Is there a comrade or a family of a comrade in distress?" asks Bill H. Wassmann the post commander, to a flurry of response and follow-up questions about who gets a fruit basket. (Only the bedridden or the families of those who died are eligible.)
Commander Wassmann, at 67, is the spring chicken of the bunch. A Korean War veteran, he joined up in Oradell after his own post in nearby Emerson closed for lack of members and he has been re-elected president nearly every year since. He'd love to pass the torch, if only there was a young man ready to take overe. So far, there isn't.
"We had a wake a while ago and we have been having a lot more lately," says the commander, searching his men for an answer to their future. Motions are made for a Christmas recruitment party and there is discussion of forming a group involving both the Legion and the V.F.W. that brings in families and sons. But the moments are filled with more hope than solution.
The problem is perhaps that all wars are not created equal, nor have combatants always come home to a ticker-tape parade. These social organizations grew strong on the euphoria and camaraderie that came out of World War II, and their original members carried the same sense of unity that the whole country felt at the time.
Though wars continued, with Americans being called on to fight in Korea, Vietnam and the Persian Gulf, that defining togetherness has never been re-established, neither on the battlefield nor at home.
"In general, we are no longer a nation of joiners," said Col. John Dwyer, a spokesman for the New Jersey Department of Military and Veterans Affairs who, along with two brothers, was drafted for Vietnam.
"When we came back, the time was different than after World War II, and we were different," he said. "We were not like our fathers. We had mustaches, long hair and wanted fast cars. We weren't joiners and there was little outreach to us asking us to be a part of things."
Vietnam veterans account for only 25 percent of the V.F.W.'s national memberships, while more than 45 percent come from World War II, said Walter Merklin, the organization's state adjunct quartermaster and a Vietnam veteran.
"I got involved after going to a bowling league sponsored by the V.F.W.," said Mr. Merklin. "Then slowly I began to realize how important these organizations were to protecting veterans rights and entitlements, and I became more heavily involved."
To other veterans who have so far resisted joining the groups, he says: "Look at the U.S. Congress, we're losing more and more vets there, and that means there's less protection for our rights. The V.F.W. has to stay strong in order to keep what veterans deserve."
Combined, the American Legion and the V.F.W. still have about 5 million members nationwide but the numbers are getting smaller, with posts like those in Oradell losing 15 to 20 members a year.
When the men of the Oradell Veterans Memorial Building were young, things were different. The American Legion and the V.F.W. were strong lobbies, championing the rights of those disabled while fighting for their country and of the orphans and widows so often left behind.
They helped bring about the Veterans Administration in 1930 and wrote the G.I. Bill of Rights, which gave education and economic assistance to a generation of young men following World War II.
Now these posts survive on meager budgets of a few thousand dollars and age has slowed their community work. In Oradell the members take pride in doing things that they say the younger generation doesn't; providing 280 pairs of socks to paraplegics at the Veterans Memorial Home in Paramus and buying special wheelchairs for people with Alzheimer's Disease. They also coordinate Boy Scout activities, help out as school crossing guards and sit on the boards of the local charities and historical societies.
These men in their twilight years say they often are the only regular visitors to go down to veterans' hospitals.
"You'd be surprised how many of them are sitting in their wheelchairs with no socks and things," said Dan Ryan, 75, a former Navy sailor on an Atlantic minesweeper. "Sometimes I think, but for the grace of God, I could be there like that too."
John Farrell, a 74-year-old former Seabee, leaned over the post bar to add: "Some people think we just sit around here like a bunch of drunks. But we're out there in the community, we're doing our part."
Over beer and pizza, Oradell's veterans often now discuss why time has chosen to pass by both them and their mission of remembrance. Some figure younger veterans are afraid they would be dominated by this tough older crew. Others suggest that the young might think they are stodgy, a belief they counter by noting that several of "the boys" are voting for President Clinton because they don't like Bob Dole's tax cut idea or his stance on abortion.
Every year they send out invitations to join up during their Memorial Day poppy drive -- a commemoration of war dead stretching back to World War I -- and they always encourage the Vietnam veterans to join their ranks at parades on Memorial Day and the Fourth of July, parades that have gotten shorter every year.
"But I can't think of a one that has joined," Mr. Farrell said.
As posts close, he believes, the country will lose more than just meeting places for some aging soldiers. "We are the conscience of what the country has gone through," he said. "We are there to remind people and Congressmen that there are still veterans lying in hospitals, that there was a Pearl Harbor and a death march. It's like the Holocaust, we need to recall these things to make sure they don't happen again."
Before the Oradell meeting breaks up, there is another prayer, a way to close with just such a remembrance. Like most things, it doesn't always go without a hitch, laughter erupting in the final moments when the Bible is opened to the wrong place, a passage that would be more appropriate at a funeral.
"You sure this is the right page?" Ray LaCour, 80, a World War II radio operator, said jokingly to his friends. "I don't think this is the one we want."
He turns to "suffer thy children" and it has a much better ring.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Empty chairs were easy to find at a recent meeting of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Oradell; the group shares the hall with the local American Legion post. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "By the Numbers: War and Peace"
 
More than 10 percent of all adults in New Jersey were military veterans in July 1995, federal records show. More specifically, there were 124.3 veterans for every 1,000 civilians age 18 and older.

 Wartime Veterans

 Persian Gulf War 22,000
 Vietnam era 195,000
 Korean conflict 118,000
 World War II 242,000
 World War I 400
 Total wartime: 577,400

 Peacetime Veterans

 Post-Vietnam 70,000
 Between Korea and Vietnam 89,000
 Other peacetime 5,000
 Total peacetime 164,000
 Total wartime and peacetime: 741,400

 Source: Federal Department of Veterans Affairs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEGION; VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS AMERICAN LEGION (91%); AMERICAN LEGION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION; VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS AMERICAN LEGION (91%); AMERICAN LEGION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; ORADELL (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AFRICA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: VETERANS WORLD WAR II (90%); VETERANS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (78%); WORLD WAR I (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (51%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



225 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Behind the Good News, a Patchwork of Reasons Why Taxes Rise and Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
When Governor Whitman sliced state income taxes by 30 percent, her critics predicted that a resulting freeze in state aid to schools and municipalities would send local property taxes soaring. Last week, the Governor shared some happy news with the taxpayers (and with fellow Republicans preparing for next year's elections): it hasn't happened.
At a news conference in Trenton on Monday, she announced that total property tax collections had risen just 3.66 percent statewide from 1995 to 1996. The average tax increase during her term (4.2 percent) has been smaller than in those of her three predecessors: James J. Florio (5.4 percent), Thomas H. Kean (9.6) and Brendan T. Byrne (6.5). 
 But as rosy as the overall picture may be, it obscures some important details.
Mrs. Whitman did not mention that in 282 towns and cities, nearly half of those in the state, property taxes went up more than the statewide average; 43 had double-digit increases. While many towns have benefited by tightening their fiscal policies and attracting new taxpayers -- offices, stores and industries -- the less fortunate are struggling with flat state aid, increasing school enrollments, declining property values and shrinking budget surpluses.
Generally, these municipalities fall into two categories: growing towns in counties like Hunterdon, Burlington and Monmouth, where a surging population is putting heavy demands on local schools and municipal services; and older cities and blue-collar suburbs in the state's long-settled northeast corner, where taxpaying employers are shrinking or closing their plants.
What follows is a closer look at 13 communities, to show why some have seen taxes go up and others down. Often, it turns out, the answer has less to do with statewide tax policies than Governor Whitman and her critics would have you believe.
 
HOBOKEN: DOWN 4.09 PERCENT New revenue helped, including $5 million from United Water of New Jersey, which has begun managing the city's water system, and $7 million from the Port Authority, which is developing a commercial and residential site on the waterfront. The city is collecting taxes more aggressively, and a new pay scale requires police officers to work eight years, rather than three, to reach the top pay grade.
 
ATLANTIC CITY: UP 10.06 PERCENT As the Governor has urged, the city is tightening pay for municipal workers and improving tax collections. (Casinos pay 74 percent of local property taxes.) But officials say such belt-tightening will take time. Last year, $8.9 million in budget surplus was used to keep property taxes down, but the surplus fund has about dried up. In addition, Federal aid has dropped $4.5 million.
 
ROXBURY: UP 6.15 PERCENT Of Morris County's 39 towns, only Roxbury and four others have increases over 5 percent this year. State funds provide about a third of the money for its schools, but Trenton's aid has been flat for three years and school enrollment is growing. Catherine Cross, the school business administrator, said the tax increase was "strictly a function of state aid."
 
WILDWOOD: DOWN 4.70 PERCENT Officials used surpluses and reserves to cut taxes. The retirement of old municipal bonds cut expenses by about $200,000, and a reorganization of several city departments reduced salaries by about $145,000.
 
RARITAN: UP 10.04 PERCENT This once rural Hunterdon County township is one of many on the outer ring of suburbia struggling with rapid increases in the number of schoolchildren. School taxes, which account for 71 percent of township taxes, jumped about $2.1 million to help pay for a new elementary school and additions to three others.
 
MILLBURN: UP 6.94 PERCENT A big culprit was a $2.2 million increase in Essex County taxes. A $250 million expansion at the Short Hills Mall increased Millburn's total property values; at the same time, values dropped in some other Essex towns, shifting the county tax burden in Millburn's direction.
 
BERNARDSVILLE: UP 7.69 PERCENT As in Millburn, development here made the total value of property rise faster than in the rest of Somerset County. Other factors included a rise in the town budget and new wings for an elementary school and the middle school.
 
WOODCLIFF LAKE: DOWN 1.38 PERCENT For the second year in a row, officials used $600,000 in budget surplus to keep municipal taxes stable, helping make Woodcliff Lake one of only 5 of Bergen County's 70 towns to lower taxes. School taxes also dropped because of a $1.8 million budget cut at the regional high school. A new A&P and some new homes came onto the tax rolls, helping reduce tax rates for other property owners.
 
BERGENFIELD: UP 0.75 PERCENT Officials put the brakes on years of tax increases by dropping health insurance benefits for the Mayor, the Council and some part-time workers, cutting sewer expenses by installing storm drains to prevent runoff from seeping into old sewer pipes, and increasing the use of surplus funds.
 
WALL: UP 8.09 PERCENT A New Jersey Natural Gas propane storage tank was removed, denying the township about $1 million in taxes. And pension costs for the police jumped about 50 percent, to $120,000, because the state reduced payments to the fund.
 
CHERRY HILL: DOWN 0.38 PERCENT Taxes stayed essentially flat because of a $500,000 increase in investment income; reduced health benefits for police officials, public-works employees and some other town workers; a reduction in teachers and larger class sizes, and a crackdown on delinquent property taxpayers that pushed the collection rate to 99 percent.
 
SAYREVILLE: UP 16.21 PERCENT The increase in this blue-collar industrial borough underscores the risk of relying on surplus funds to stabilize taxes in a given year. Last year, $3.3 million was used. This year, only $1 million was available, and taxpayers had to fill the gap. And general municipal expenses rose $1.3 million.
 
HILLSIDE: UP 7.71 PERCENT Long gone are the steel and pharmaceutical mills that once paid most of the tax bill. Now homeowners, many of them aging, face a rising burden. "We're landlocked, with no new space left to build and no new ratables coming in," said Rosemarie McClave, the township treasurer. "A new mall would be wonderful."

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey highlighting cities and growing suburbs with increased property taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WATER DELAWARE (52%); UNITED WATER WORKS (52%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAXES; PROPERTY TAXES PROPERTY TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



226 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: TRIBECA;
Right-to-Play Turf War: Kids vs. Dogs

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
It's not much to look at: an empty, blacktopped space next to Public School 234 in TriBeCa. But the 9,000-square-foot lot on Chambers Street is at the center of an intense conflict between school and community board officials, who have permission to use it as a playground, and local dog owners, who have been using it to exercise their pets.
Formerly weed-choked and strewn with garbage, the space was first rented by Community Board 1 in May 1993 for $1 a month from the city's Economic Development Corporation for use as a "community playground," said Paul Goldstein, the board's district manager. Parents and other school volunteers cleaned it up, and the city spent roughly $70,000 to pave and fence it, Mr. Goldstein said. Soon, pet owners who had used the lot when it was derelict began to use it again as a dog run. 
 A dispute quickly arose, and it has grown. Officials first tried to cut off the dog owners' access by locking the gates of the fence surrounding the lot, but the locks were repeatedly broken. Bob Townley, a neighborhood man who has two children in P.S. 234 and who runs an after-school program and a day camp there, said that this summer the smell of dog urine and feces in the lot had been so overwhelming that children at the camp could not play there at all.
At a raucous Community Board 1 meeting last month, the school's principal, Anna Switzer, and the board's chairwoman, Anne Compoccia, offered to allow one-fourth of the lot to be used as a dog run if a group could be organized to clean and maintain the run. But many dog owners at the meeting refused, bristling at the suggestion that the school and the children had greater rights to the space than they and their pets did. "I will always use it," Jeff Cohen, a dog owner, said last week. "I don't believe anyone has the right to divide it up." The day after the meeting, copies of a bitterly worded flier were posted near the school. "Dog owners are not anti-school," the fliers said. "Why then is the school anti-dog-owners?" Similar themes were scrawled on the school's back wall facing the lot.
Other dog owners have been more conciliatory. About 20 recently established Dog Owners of TriBeCa to accept the board's offer as they search for a permanent solution. They are drafting a proposal for the community board to consider. Yvonne Fox, a local pet store owner who helped get the group together, said members hoped a permanent dog run could be created nearby when the reconstruction of West Street was completed. BERNARD STAMLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); COMMUNITY BOARD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY BOARD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TRIBECA (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PLAYGROUNDS; DOGS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH DOGS (91%); PETS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (71%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD PAUL GOLDSTEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



227 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Caution: Economic Statistics Are Wrong

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Imagine you had spent much of your professional life trying to explain something, only to learn that it was all a mistake. What you thought had happened was simply an illusion created by faulty statistics.
As Gilda Radner used to say, "Never mind." 
 That is the position in which more than a few economists, pundits and politicians are likely to find themselves when Congress's Advisory Commission to Study the Consumer Price Index, chaired by Michael Boskin, reports on just how much the index overstates inflation.
That report, having been delayed until after the election, will provide ammunition for those who want to save the Government money by holding down the inflation-indexed increases in Social Security benefits.
But the implications of substantial overstatements in inflation go much further than that. It may be that much of the economic debate of the last few decades has been based on the wrong premises, and therefore is simply irrelevant.
If you have studied, and believed, the economic statistics issued by our Government in recent years, you know the following: Economic growth in the current recovery is the slowest in memory. Real wages in this country have been falling for years, and living standards have stagnated.
Some part of that litany was used successfully four years ago by Bill Clinton when he ran for President. Bob Dole tried to use some of it this time, but most voters seemed ready to trust their own impressions, not numbers cranked out by economic statisticians.
As Robert Barbera, the chief economist at Hoenig & Company, points out, all of those statistics are vitally influenced by inflation estimates. And if you use lower inflation figures, then the other statistics look much better.
Consider productivity gains -- essentially how much output per worker is growing. The figures bounce around with economic cycles, but if you average the figures over longer periods, you see a steady decline. Last week the Government reported that year-to-year growth in productivity was just two-tenths of 1 percent for the third quarter. For the 90's, it is averaging just under 1 percent a year, one-fourth what it used to be.
If that were true, it would be hard to see how American business could make any money, or could be competitive. All that money spent on computers, all that downsizing, all that reorganizing accomplished nothing.
Why are the numbers wrong? The Government starts by measuring output, from which it subtracts inflation to get real growth. And that is the figure used to compute productivity. But if inflation is overstated, real growth is understated. And if that happens for a sustained period, the differences can become substantial.
In fact, America's companies have accomplished a lot in terms of productivity and competitiveness, as investors know quite well. Patricia Chadwick, the chief investment strategist at Chancellor Capital Management, cites those gains in recommending shares of European companies, which she says are just starting to follow the American path toward increased productivity and competitiveness.
It has been no secret that inflation numbers were overstated, but most analysts have ignored the wider implications. Those who watched the Dow got a better picture of the economy than did those who studied the Government's misleading statistics.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Can This Be True?" shows year-over-year growth in labor productivity (seven-year moving average), 1960's to 1990's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (66%); HOENIG & CO LTD (66%); CHANCELLOR CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (50%); ADVISORY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVISORY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



228 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROWNSTONE BROOKLYN;
Park Slope Boom Spreads South

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
Eugenio Duval is poised to rise with, or be crushed by, the good times descending on his lower Park Slope street corner. The problem for the 39-year-old bodega owner is deciding what to stock his shelves with.
In a 30-minute period last week, Mr. Duval's store near the corner of Seventh and Prospect Avenues sold a lottery ticket to a middle-class Hispanic woman, cigarettes to an elderly white woman, baby formula to a young black father and two pints of malt liquor to a white working-class couple. But he was stumped by the request of a long-haired young man in his 20's. "Do you have any organic eggs?" the man asked politely. 
 Mr. Duval, a Dominican immigrant, was stumped. He and the owners of the other new businesses opening up in the South Slope are eager to ride the tide of commercial growth spreading down from the North Slope, but none is quite sure how to do it. The same area started to grow in the 1980's but then bottomed out. Now, trendier businesses, drawn by rents that their owners say can be half that of North Slope properties, are moving in, following the influx of higher-income tenants to apartments south of Ninth Street.
While real-estate brokers in the neighborhood predict that a boom in the area will draw more upscale businesses with a wealthier clientele, owners of both old and new businesses say the situation right now is a gamble. For Mr. Duval and other merchants who cater to working-class customers, the danger is they will fail to adapt and be driven out of their suddenly prime locations.
For Adiz Fernandez, a 23-year-old who along with her boyfriend turned a boarded-up storefront into the stylish Computer Caffe, the danger is that she is too far ahead of the neighborhood. "I see it as a developing area," she said as a customer ordered a cappuccino. "Four new businesses have opened here."
In the last few months, a hair salon called Bohemia has opened up on Seventh Avenue and 15th Street next door to the Computer Caffe, where customers can use computers while sipping coffee. On the other side of the avenue, Sanctuary, a gay and lesbian bar, is opening, and an abandoned storefront is being turned into a French restaurant. A mountain bike store and cigar store and smoking salon have also opened nearby.
Across the street from the Computer Caffe, V & E Beverage's cash register is still encased in floor-to-ceiling bulletproof glass. After surviving the neighborhood's bad times, Enrique Torrellas, manager of the family-owned liquor store for the last seven years, fears being forced out of business. If he increases his prices, he predicted, his customers will turn to discount liquor stores. "We'll see what happens next year," Mr. Torrellas said. "Maybe we'll leave."
Lori Falco, the 35-year-old owner of See-Gar, a cigar store, smoking salon and gift shop that opened last month, fears the same rising rents, but hopes gentrification is not inevitable. She said she opened the store on Seventh Avenue near 13th Street because it was a growing area, but also because of Park Slope's diversity, which she said she would hate to see disappear. Her cigars range from 80 cents to $13 each.
"I have a 70-year-old man who comes in here and loves his 89-cent cigars," she said. "It's just nice when you go from an old man like that to a dad with a kid to a doctor to a construction worker to a woman who wants to try cigars." DAVID ROHDE

GRAPHIC: Photo: See-Gar, a cigar store and smoking salon, is new on Seventh Avenue. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PARK SLOPE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TOBACCO STORES (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); SMOKING (71%); TABLE EGGS (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (64%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); LOTTERIES (56%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID EUGENIO DUVAL (85%); ENRIQUE TORRELLAS (57%); PARK SLOPE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



229 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
For Government Workers, Safer Roads to Retirement

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
FOR years, many government workers have put their money into tax-deferred retirement plans that were less secure and more limited than the plans of many private-sector workers.
But an obscure provision of the new Federal minimum wage law has erased many of the drawbacks of these accounts, which are called 457 plans and are offered to 8.3 million employees in 10,000 state and local governments. (Federal workers have their own version of these plans.) 
 The most important change in the statute, which was signed by President Clinton in August, requires employers to put employees' money into a custodial account, a trust or an annuity contract, where the funds cannot be reached by anyone but the participant. Before this change, 457 funds were the property of the governmental body that created the plan. As such, they were subject to creditors if the entity ran into trouble.
"This change is going to increase participation and confidence in the plans," said Joseph G. Metz of Buck Consultants in New York, which specializes in employee benefits. "We will have more public employees saving because they won't be so fearful."
Taking the money away from the employer has long been the rule for 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans; the latter cover workers at public schools, universities and other nonprofit organizations. The difference in rules may help explain why participation rates in those plans are higher than in 457 programs. About 78 percent of the employees eligible for 401(k)'s contribute to them, according to Access Research of Windsor, Conn., but only 20 percent, or 1.7 million, of those eligible for 457 plans are enrolled.
No money in 457 plans has ever been lost because of a government insolvency, but the recent bankruptcies of Orange County, Calif., and of several small water districts elsewhere in the country showed the plans' vulnerability. Money in the Orange County 457 plans would have been used to pay off creditors were it not for a special arrangement worked out by county officials, lawyers, investment bankers and others.
"The counties, cities and states are pretty solidly heeled, but then came Orange County, and a light bulb went on," said Arthur N. Caple, president of the National Association of Government Deferred Compensation Administrators. "People got concerned."
The law requires existing plans to end employer ownership by Jan. 1, 1999. New plans must incorporate the change when they start enrollment.
To account for inflation, the law also permits increases in the maximum annual contributions to 457 plans. Ever since the plans were approved by Congress in 1979, the limit has been 33 percent of salary or $7,500, whichever is less. In contrast, 401(k)'s, which are indexed for inflation, had a maximum contribution this year of 25 percent percent of salary or $9,500, whichever is less.
Like all the 457 provisions except for employer ownership, this one takes effect on Jan. 1.
Under the new law, employees can also borrow money from their plans. Previously, they could only take money out of a 457 account for a medical emergency or other financial disaster. The new provisions, which generally allow people to borrow half their account balances, up to a maximum of $50,000, mirror the loan options that 401(k)'s have long had.
Also, workers will no longer have just 60 days after leaving their jobs to commit to a date for the first payout from their plans. Many public employees, like police officers, leave their posts at relatively young ages after 20 years; picking a starting date for payouts in such cases can be difficult.
The new law still directs participants to choose a beginning payout date upon leaving employment. But it allows them to change their minds once, as long as the new date is later than the first one.
"A lot of people don't think about this until they leave, and then they find that the law is very cumbersome," said Georgette Gesterly, director of pretax benefits for New York City, which has 75,000 members in its 457 plan. "So, a change like this is helpful."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "No, Thanks"
The assets are small in so-called 457 plans, the tax-deferred accounts for state and local government workers. . .
 
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
$34B $38B $42B $47B $55B
 
. . . and one reason is the plans' low participation rate compared to other tax-deferral plans, such as 401(k)'s.
 
1.7 million of the 8.3 million people eligible have 457 plans
 
(Sources: Access Research, Buck Consultants)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUCK CONSULTANTS INC (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); LOCAL GOVERNMENT; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ANNUITIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); APPROVALS (68%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



230 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
The High Cost of Muni Bond Peace of Mind

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY MIDDLETON 

 BODY:
SMALL investors and their big fear of losses are fueling the insured muni bond fund business.
Comfortable with the tax-exempt status and the diversification provided by the national municipal bond funds, but jittery that the next Orange County will pop up in their portfolios, customers increasingly want the guarantee of good credit that insurance confers. As a result, the volume of insured municipal issues coming to market has nearly doubled, from 25 percent in 1990 to 46 percent this year, said David Litvack, a senior director of Fitch Investors Service. 
 Never mind that even in the 1994 bankruptcy of Orange County, Calif., insurers didn't pay out a dime.
In fact, "the actual losses by all bond insurance companies over the last five years have been $130 million, and that's on bonds with a par value of $507.2 billion," Mr. Litvack said. "So we're talking about a percentage default rate on the order of 0.026 percent."
That makes insurance on a municipal bond look very much like suspenders on a well-belted investment. Even in Orange County, reserves were adequate to cover interest payments until the county itself resumed paying them. Susan Keenan, manager of the municipal bond department of Alliance Capital Management L.P., is blunt in her opinion that insurance isn't really needed.
"Frankly, insurance is a marketing gimmick," she said, adding that insurers "write policies to a zero-loss standard, meaning any security they're willing to insure is one they're convinced is not going to default."
 Still, the demand is there.
MUNICIPALITIES like insurance because it can cut their borrowing costs. Insurance replaces New York City's A- credit rating, for example, with the insurer's triple-A.
But equally if not more important, small investors are transforming the marketplace through their purchases of mutual fund shares.
"Mutual fund investors are different than the traditional customers for municipals," said Neil Budnick, director of public finance for the MBIA Insurance Company of Armonk, N.Y., the muni industry's largest underwriter. "They tend to be people who have less money. They care about credit quality more because they can afford to lose less."
The surge in insurance parallels the growth in municipal bond mutual funds. In 1980, muni funds accounted for only 1.1 percent of municipal bond ownership, according to the Federal Reserve Board. By 1990, that was up to 9.5 percent, and in 1991, funds shouldered aside insurance companies as the municipal market's No. 2 player, behind individuals. Currently, funds account for 16.2 percent of the $1.3 trillion municipal bond market, trailing only households, which own 35.5 percent of tax-exempt bonds.
The appetite for insurance on these bonds can be expected to grow, said Joe Mysak, the editor of Grant's Municipal Bond Observer. He said the insured-bond business would get a lift in coming years as defaults rise among issues that came out in the late 1980's and earlier in this decade to finance economic-development projects like stadiums, convention hotels and even civic aquariums.
"There are just rafts of this kind of thing out there, and a lot of them are going to blow up," he said. "These are not insured bonds, and that's why insurance will probably become even more popular, as these things default."
Owners of insured municipal bond funds do, however, pay two -- and possibly three -- prices for the elimination of credit risk. Their first cost is lower yields, currently about 10 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, less than the yields on funds that own uninsured bonds of comparable quality.
They also pay through increased volatility. "An insured municipal bond is definitely more volatile than a comparable bond that isn't insured," said Mark Wright, an analyst for Morningstar Inc.
This is so because, with the credit risk removed, the bonds tend to respond more rapidly to interest rate swings, in the same way as the safest government investments, United States Treasuries. Investors thus face a drop in the value of their insured holdings when interest rates rise. Uninsured bonds react more to concerns about the ability of the issuer to pay on the bonds.
Indeed, many investors could get higher after-tax returns with even greater safety in the Treasury market. The spreads between taxable and tax-free bonds are so narrow at the moment that in many cases, small investors would be better off owning Treasuries.
"Right now, in the one- to five-year maturity range, U.S. Government bonds are more attractive on an after-tax basis for people in the 28 percent and 31 percent tax brackets," said James F. Lynch, editor of the Lynch Municipal Bond Advisory, a monthly newsletter.
The triple-A muni bond yield last Monday, for instance, was 4.2 percent for a three-year bond, which is equal to 5.83 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket and 6.09 percent for those taxed at 31 percent. The comparable Treasury note is yielding 5.91 percent. Even for the taxpayer paying 31 percent, Mr. Lynch said, "you'd probably go with the Government bond if you were conservative."
To Mr. Wright of Morningstar, there is little gain from having the insurance.
"I don't think that under normal circumstances most investors need bond insurance," he said. "Given the current market environment, however, I can see why insured bonds would appear to be very attractive."
THAT environment reflects civic difficulties like those in Orange County and the recent downgradings of the bonds of Miami and Pittsburgh, as well as the fact that, as underwriters have talked small investors into believing that insurance matters, it has come to matter. The avalanche of insured bonds has created "a glut of high-quality paper," said Cadmus Hicks, the manager of credit research for John Nuveen & Company of Chicago, a leading manager of municipal debt.
Insured bonds are so abundant that they yield, on average, only 10 basis points or so less than lower-quality bonds, about half the spread of five years ago. "What that tells an investor is you can have insurance for very little additional price," Mr. Hicks said.
Sophisticated investors typically spurn muni bond insurance. Institutions rely on their own credit research, and well-heeled individuals are urged by their advisers to seek the higher yields of uninsured bonds. "We have always advocated buying noninsured municipal bonds," Mr. Lynch said.
It is the mutual funds that have fueled the demand for insurance. "This is for mom and pop, who don't know too much about what they're buying," said Steve Bauer, manager of the Safeco Insured Municipal Bond fund. "It's a lot easier for a broker to make a sale when he can say this thing is guaranteed."
But among broker-sold funds, the uninsured type continues to be favored. Nuveen's Municipal Bond fund, now yielding 4.65 percent, has assets of $2.8 billion, dwarfing the Nuveen Insured Municipal Bond fund, which has $820 million and yields 4.54 percent. At Alliance, the National Portfolio of the Alliance Municipal Income fund has $650 million in assets, more than twice the $310 million of the Insured National Portfolio.
Among direct-marketed funds, however, the reverse is often true. The Vanguard Group's Municipal Insured Long-Term Portfolio has assets of $2 billion, or nearly twice the $1.1 billion of the noninsured fund, Municipal Long-Term Portfolio. "We don't think it's idiotic to offer insured-type securities," said Ian MacKinnon, head of Vanguard's fixed-income group.
"Insurance provides you with a triple-A rating, but the marketplace doesn't price them that way," Mr. MacKinnon said. "It prices them at a double-A yield, so in a sense you're getting the insurance for free." The market ranks insured bonds below other triple-A credits mostly because of their overabundance.
Because of their strict underwriting standards and the intense competition among the largest bond insurers, the fees being charged are extremely low. Mr. Litvack of Fitch said a typical premium on $10,000 worth of insurance -- the $5,000 face value of a bond plus a like amount in interest over its life -- was $30.
That fee is implicitly paid by the issuing state or locality, but it is quickly recaptured when the higher rating achieved through insurance produces a lower coupon. New York City, among the biggest issuers of insured bonds, currently pays interest of 5.6 percent on insured long-term debt. An A- rating would require it to pay more than 5.7 percent for uninsured bonds. About half the savings are used to pay for the insurance, with the other half accruing to the city and its taxpayers.
Localities with stronger credit ratings don't need insurance and are deaf to the funds' demands. Wisconsin is rated double-A by Moody's and Standard & Poor's, and double-A+ by Fitch, and its bonds trade "as almost cheap triple-A's," said Larry Dallia, the state's assistant capital finance director.
When his office recently issued $30 million of general obligation bonds, it instructed underwriters not to insure the issue.
'OUR bonds don't trade a dime more expensively because they've got insurance," Mr. Dallia said. "They would probably trade at the same price. So why should we shell out the premium and get no economic benefit for it?"
Many observers think that insured bonds can be important in state-only muni funds, where geographic risk cannot be diversified away. All of Vanguard's long-term state-only funds are insured, for example. But in national portfolios, shareholders seldom receive any reward for their caution.
And then there are those downsides, the lower yields and the volatility that can be costly whenever rates rise.
"Insureds trade off more in a down market," said Ms. Keenan of Alliance. They make it up when rates decline, but in the meantime shareholders who bought such funds for peace of mind will find themselves missing out on that, too.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leaders of a Cautious Pack"
Total returns of insured national municipal bond funds through October, ranked by one-year return. Only one share class of a fund is included.

TOTAL RETURNS: 1996 -- 1 year -- 3 year
 
 Alliance Muni Income Insured National A 3.10% 7.44% 5.17%
 Oppenheimer Insured Municipal A 3.63 6.55 4.01
 Executive Investors Insured Tax-Exempt 2.10 6.38 6.26
 Safeco Insured Municipal bond 1.22 6.28 4.23
 Vanguard Municipal Insured Long-Term 2.57 6.27 5.16
 Nuveen Insured Municipal bond R 1.87 5.61 4.55
 Van Kampen American Capital
 Insured Tax-Free Income A 2.11 5.60 4.23
 Fidelity Insured Municipal income 2.28 5.37 4.37
 Franklin Insured Tax-Free Income I 3.00 5.35 4.61
 Voyageur National Insured Tax-Free A 1.66 5.24 4.22
 
Source: Morningstar Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); BONDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); 

PERSON: MIDDLETON, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



231 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: AT THE GATE;
Tickets on Sale! But Is the Show a Dud?

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
THE Ticketmaster Group is about to make an offer that the company hopes will become one of the hottest tickets in town -- shares of its own stock. But unlike a World Series game or a Hootie and the Blowfish concert, this show may not be worth waiting in line for.
That thought may surprise many investors. After all, Ticketmaster, based in Los Angeles, is the nation's largest seller of automated ticketing services, with as much as 85 percent of the market, by some estimates. Among its more than 3,500 clients are 73 professional sports teams, including the Chicago Bulls and the Atlanta Falcons, as well as theaters, stadiums and arenas, like Madison Square Garden in New York. 
 The company sold 53 million tickets in its fiscal year ended Jan. 31 and 30 million in the first half of the current year. And with every ticket sold, Ticketmaster receives a "convenience charge" of $1.50 to $7.
What's more, the company is planning to broaden its business to museums, zoos, amusement parks, state and county fairs, golf courses, ski resorts and trade shows. It also hopes to expand to Australia, Canada and Latin America.
Just last week, Ticketmaster introduced an on-line service that lets Broadway theatergoers check lists of shows and seating locations and to buy tickets on the Internet.
Given such a record, investors might understandably jump at the chance to buy some of the 7.25 million shares -- 32 percent of the company -- that Ticketmaster expects to put on the block tomorrow in its initial public offering. The estimated price is $13 to $15 a share.
Nevertheless, this deal may flop. For one, Ticketmaster has huge debts, largely a result of acquisitions in its expansion effort. After the offering, the company will be $138 million in the hole, a sum equal to about 90 percent of its total capitalization. A range of 25 percent to 50 percent is more typical, said Ryan Jacob, director of research at IPO Value Monitor. And while Mr. Jacob said he was more tolerant of higher debt levels at companies with particularly stable cash flows, like Ticketmaster, several analysts said the heavy debt was still a red flag.
IN fact, in the offering papers filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company acknowledged that debt could be a danger. "There can be no assurance," it said, "that the company's operating cash flow will be sufficient to cover its debt service obligations." The company said the "high degree of leverage may make it more vulnerable to economic downturns."
Although Ticketmaster has had a stable cash flow, the company's performance has faltered recently. In the six months ended July 31, the company lost $2.4 million, or 16 cents a share. And in the last fiscal year, the company had a loss of $8.1 million, or 53 cents a share, compared with a loss of $6.7 million, or 44 cents a share, a year earlier.
These troubles are largely due to the huge interest payments on debt. But, while revenues have picked up in the last few months, they too have been a problem for Ticketmaster. In the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, sales fell to $161 million, from $183 million the previous year. The company attributed the declines to the effects of the Major League Baseball strike and the National Hockey League lockout, as well as fewer concerts by popular musicians in 1995.
Investors also might be put off by the fact that two-thirds of the $92 million the company hopes to raise from the offering will be used to pay down current and future debt. That means that few dollars will be available to improve cash flow, noted Robert Mescal, an analyst with New Issues, a newsletter of the Institute for Econometric Research in Deerfield Beach, Fla.
Of course, the shares may well command an initial premium because of Ticketmaster's well-known name. But Mr. Jacob and several other analysts are less optimistic about its long-term prospects.
"I'm not standing in line for this one," said David Menlow, president of IPO Financial Network, which projects opening premiums on initial public offerings. "Companies with worldwide and nationally recognized names have essentially garnered much of the attention in the marketplace. But I don't think we have the same type of operation here because of the losses they have been sustaining."
Mr. Mescal said Ticketmaster's financial performance was particularly troubling given its domination of the market. "Their losses are increasing in each fiscal period, yet their claim is that they are the leading factor in the sale of tickets," he said. "If they control ticket sales in the major urban areas in most U.S. cities, why can't they make a buck?"
There are other entertainment-ticketing operations, like Moviefone, but none are large enough to compare to Ticketmaster. In some ways, however, the company is similar to Sabre Group, American Airlines' hugely successful reservations service that went public last month. Like Ticketmaster, Sabre charges fees to book tickets, and it is also the far-and-away leader in its market.
Unlike Ticketmaster, though, Sabre has positive earnings -- and they rose 15 percent last year. At a Friday close of $27.375, Wall Street values Sabre stock at a multiple of 19 times estimated earnings.
But with Ticketmaster's losses and debts, many analysts are balking at the estimated share price of the offering. "On a cash-flow basis, we do feel it is being priced a bit rich," Mr. Jacob said.
What is the hard lesson for Ticketmaster? It must take its cue from the actors and athletes whose tickets it sells: Perform well, and the crowds will follow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ticketmaster, known for selling tickets, is about to sell its own shares. Customers wait at its outlet in an HMV store in Manhattan. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Ticketmaster Group" list company financial statistics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TKTM (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER GROUP INC TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (92%); ATLANTA FALCONS (57%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); ATLANTA FALCONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TICKETMASTER GROUP INC ATLANTA FALCONS (57%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); ATLANTA FALCONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); THEATER (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); SPORTS (72%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); RESORTS (71%); GOLF (70%); SKIING (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA RYAN JACOB (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



232 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Old Jockeys, New Horses

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
Give them an inch and they will, of course, want a mile.
Now that mutual fund managers can use prospectuses to promote their previous track records when they join other companies or set up their own shops, there is a push to permit adding those records to their advertising, too. 
 In mid-August, the Securities and Exchange Commission permitted Elizabeth R. Bramwell, former manager of the Gabelli Growth fund, to continue to use her Gabelli record in the prospectus for her Bramwell Growth fund, which she started when she struck out on her own in 1994. In effect, the S.E.C. was dropping the one-year limit it previously placed on any mention of past performance in a prospectus.
The National Association of Securities Dealers then weighed in to make sure its members understood that past-performance data could appear only in a fund's prospectus and not in ads. The N.A.S.D. did not issue a formal ruling because Ms. Bramwell's firm is not registered with the agency. But it made clear that portable track records were not to appear in fund advertising.
Its decision was grounded in previous policy, said R. Clark Hooper, senior vice president of the Office of Disclosure and Investor Protection of N.A.S.D. Regulation. In several instances, the agency has looked at putting past performance into supplemental sales literature but has been stymied on "how to make clear to investors what the performance means and, more important, what it doesn't mean," Ms. Hooper said.
As a result, it was relegated to the prospectus, where the accompanying disclosure put the data in context. The Investment Company Institute, the fund trade group in Washington, gave the arrangement its blessing.
The pressure, however, appears to be building as more managers switch firms and want to promote their previous records.
As of the end of October, the N.A.S.D. had received two formal submissions and several informal inquiries about the policy, although it would not identify from whom. In light of this interest, Ms. Hooper said, the agency will reconsider its policy at its next committee meeting, which has not yet been scheduled.
Likewise, the S.E.C. has been petitioned to take up the matter.
"Historically, the investment company division staff has taken the position that performance data of other accounts shouldn't be included in stand-alone mutual fund advertising," said Jack W. Murphy, associate director and chief counsel in the S.E.C.'s division of investment management. "However, in the wake of the Bramwell letter, we have been asked to reconsider the issue."
 
Dividing the Pie
New England Star Small Cap is the third fund in a series sponsored by New England Funds to be jointly managed by successful managers at several companies outside the firm. The fund will invest mainly in companies with market capitalizations below $1 billion, as well as in overseas companies and fixed-income securities. Overseas issues are limited to one-quarter of the assets.
Management responsibilities are divided among four subadvisers, each of whom will receive 25 percent of new cash; redemptions will also be allocated equally. Spreading the money among the four managers, each with a somewhat different investing style, is intended to help reduce risk in small-stock investing.
The managers are John Wallace of Robertson Stephens; Michael Carmen of Montgomery Asset Management; Steven Reid of Harris Associates, and Christopher Ely, David Smith and Phil Fine of Loomis Sayles. The fund levies a 5.75 percent sales charge.
The two New England funds that are already being jointly managed are Star Advisers and Star Worldwide.
 
New Funds
The Montgomery Emerging Asia fund is intended to capitalize on long-term economic growth predicted for China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, India and other Asian markets. It will not invest in Japan.
Pioneer First, managed by a Russian subsidiary of the Pioneer Group, in Boston, is the first mutual fund approved for Russians by the regulatory agency there under a pilot program established in November.
New Manager
Tim Keefe, former manager of Federated American Leaders and Capital Appreciation funds, has joined the John Hancock fund group. He takes over John Hancock Growth and Income from Ben Hock, who now heads equity research for the firm. Mr. Keefe will also lead the team managing John Hancock Special Value.
 
New Identities
Twentieth Century International Emerging Growth has been renamed Twentieth Century International Discovery. In developed markets, it can now own companies with market capitalizations of up to $1 billion, up from $800 million. A cap of $1 billion has been added for companies in emerging markets.
 Keystone Strategic Development was renamed Keystone Global Resources and Development and will own mostly stocks of companies involved in natural resources and energy. Keystone Fund of the Americas retains its name but will invest at least 65 percent of its assets in Latin American securities and at least 20 percent in securities issued in Canada and the United States.
 
In Brief
The Vanguard Primecap fund reopened to investors on Oct. 31 after closing to new accounts in March 1995.
The minimum investment in the Benham funds has been increased to $2,500 from $1,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Handshakes This Year"
The mutual fund industry continues to consolidate. Last week, the British investment manager Invesco announced that it was acquiring AIM Management Group of Houston for $1.6 billion. The week before, Morgan Stanley closed on its $1.2 billion acquisition of Van Kampen American Capital.
 
 
Month announced -- Fund group acquired, assets ($ mill) -- Acquirer
 
November AIM Management Group; $57,100 Invesco P.L.C.
September Keystone Investments; $11,600 First Union Corporation
 ARM Financial Group (funds); $230 Federated Investors
 Pax World Fund; $500 The Shadek Family
 Lehman Brothers Money Market Funds; $5,000 Federated Investors
July Flagship Resources; $4,400 John Nuveen
June Van Kampen American Capital; $57,123 Morgan Stanley Group
 Heine Securities; $17,000 Franklin Resources
 
Source: Putnam, Lovell & Thornton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PIOG (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); BRADFORD, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (70%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); BRADFORD, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); SALES & SELLING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); BONDS (67%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (62%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE ELIZABETH R BRAMWELL (75%); R CLARK HOOPER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



233 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3587 words

HEADLINE: Bad Cop

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
TOWARD the end of 1993, just before Michael Walsh's world came crashing in, he took a graveyard shift job as a security guard at McDonald's. Sure, it was degrading, but the lunacy at the 30th Precinct was wearing him down, he says. As rumors of stings and informers swirled around the Harlem station house, he found it increasingly difficult to eat or sleep, and his wife started to worry. Moonlighting at McDonald's, he figured, might keep him out of trouble.
It had been a while since he had robbed a drug dealer, and to keep himself from temptation, Michael Walsh, then 32 years old and a seven-year veteran police officer, had stopped making arrests altogether. His last "job" had taken place a few months earlier at a dingy pool hall on West 140th Street, where, responding to a radio call of shots fired, he bumped into a kilo of cocaine in a storage closet. "Never again, so help me God," he remembers telling himself as he stuffed the shrink-wrapped brick in his coat pocket. But later that day, when he asked another officer, Jorge Alvarez, to sell the loot, he sensed something was wrong. 
 For months now, the buzz around the precinct had been pointing to Officer Alvarez as a possible informer. There was no doubt he had changed. No longer outgoing and chatty, he was always on edge and often drank on the job, his bloodshot eyes full of fear, say those who worked with him at the time. One Sunday morning in February 1994, just after roll call, an officer named Stephen Morrissey taunted Officer Alvarez with accusations he was wired. Officer Alvarez took out his revolver and in the scuffle that followed, Officer Morrissey was shot in the foot, prosecutors say. Although the incident was covered up by precinct commanders, the officer's breakdown confirmed Officer Walsh's fear that his friend and frequent partner in crime was working for the other side.
"At that moment, I knew my ship was sunk," Mr. Walsh recalls.
Almost two months after the Morrissey shooting, on the evening of April 15, 1994, Officer Walsh, as usual, was too restless to sleep. Maybe he'd seen too many bad cop movies, but he couldn't shake the sorry image of himself being led away in handcuffs. He cursed himself, his greed and the times he had lied to juries. "And for what?" he thought over and over again. "So I could blow wads of cash at the race track?"
When he turned on the 11 o'clock news, he felt his gut tighten. The top story was about an impending crackdown of rogue officers at an unidentified upper Manhattan precinct. He grabbed the phone and paged Blake Struller, a former partner who was on duty. When the phone rang five minutes later, it wasn't Officer Struller but a strange voice asking for Mikey. No one ever called Michael Walsh "Mikey." Then the line went dead. A moment later, the doorbell rang. He threw on jeans, and woke up his wife.
"Becky," he recalls saying to her, "I think I'm in trouble."
Indeed, Michael Walsh was in more trouble than he had ever imagined. As one of 33 officers arrested in the scandal at the 30th Precinct, Officer Walsh became known as one of the Dirty 30, a uniformed thug who robbed drug dealers, dealt cocaine and lied about his arrests.
"Officers like Mike Walsh broke the very laws they were sworn to uphold," said Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney in Manhattan, whose office prosecuted most of the officers. "The damage he did to public trust of the police cannot be overstated."
To fellow policemen, Officer Walsh also violated a cardinal rule. He ratted on his buddies, shattering the so-called Blue Wall of Silence. The decision to tell all, to testify against former friends, may have reduced his sentence -- from as much as 15 years to 3 -- but it has left him a haunted man. Most of his friends from the precinct have abandoned him, and his wife recently moved back in with her parents. He says he is $60,000 in debt.
In September 1994, Steven Laski, a former partner and one of his closest friends, put a gun under his chin and killed himself shortly after his own arrest. When Officer Walsh showed up at Officer Laski's funeral and encountered the accusing glares from former colleagues, he got back in his car and went home.
"Everyone tried to put the blame on me, but if I hadn't made a deal, someone else would have," he said last week, sitting in the kitchen of the house in Woodside, Queens where he grew up. "I did what I had to do."
The scandal at the 30th Precinct may have been the darkest moment in Police Department history. One-third of the patrol force was caught in its web, a grim testament to the transforming power of drugs and the havoc it has wreaked in New York's most desperate neighborhoods.
"These were guys making $30,000 a year being confronted with car trunks full of hundreds of thousands of dollars," said Daniel Castleman, chief of investigations for the Manhattan District Attorney. "The temptation should not be minimized."
A common thread among those arrested was their low level of education: none held a college degree, and most had been cashiers or store clerks or were unemployed before they entered the Police Academy.
"The bottom line is that the majority of these guys were losers," said Gerald W. Lynch, president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
 
Saying Farewell In Working-Class Queens
 Last month, after Michael Walsh was finally sentenced, a bunch of friends decided to throw him a "going away" party. About 30 of them showed up at Joey's Place, a restaurant on Astoria Boulevard in Elmhurst. There were childhood buddies and a handful of police officers who stood by him through tough times. They ate family-style at a long table, quietly downing plates of roast beef and trying to avoid any talk of what lay ahead for Mr. Walsh. It was an awkward gathering, and the guest of honor was clearly unnerved by all the attention.
"This feels like a cross between an Irish wake and a Sweet 16 party," one friend joked to another.
The last two years have taken a visible toll on Mr. Walsh. Once built like a linebacker, he has gained 30 pounds since his arrest and lost his easy smile. No longer the hard-drinking hell-raiser who would stay out until last call, Mr. Walsh has pulled back into a shell of sadness and shame, his friends say. Because he dreads running into other officers, he usually stays home when he is not driving a cab, his only source of income since being thrown off the force.
"It's not always easy to get Mike to go out," said his friend Keith Pope. "He wears this mask of remorse wherever he goes."
Once, while Mr. Walsh was at a Rangers game, he was recognized by a knot of officers who started calling him a rat. Mortified, he fled the game, telling his companions he felt ill.
On another occasion, he drove to Saratoga Springs, with his cousin. He assumed no one would recognize him there. But while at the race track, he spotted an officer from Internal Affairs who had arrested him. Within minutes, Officer Walsh was in his car racing back to Queens.
With thick arms and an intimidating swagger, Michael Walsh is easy to imagine dressed in blue, twirling a nightstick. He speaks the tough talk of working-class Queens, and while every other sentence is peppered with an expletive, his manner is never gruff, rude or boastful.
"When you first meet Mike, he's surprisingly shy," said Mr. Pope, a taxi dispatcher who gave Mr. Walsh a job driving for the Woodside Garage. "It takes a while before he feels comfortable with people." To his friends and family, Mr. Walsh's slide into crime was more about recklessness than guile.
His mother, Catherine, said: "Mike has always tried to be one of the boys, to not rock the boat. In my view, it was peer pressure and his naivete that got him in trouble."
Michael Walsh never planned on being a cop. Growing up on 65th Street just off Queens Boulevard, he was surrounded by police officers -- uncles, neighbors and family friends who would drop by the three-story Walsh home, hanging their holsters on the downstairs coat rack. But he never dreamed of being one of them; if anything, he looked down on the profession. As a teen-ager, he cursed the local beat officers who would break up the beer parties he and his friends held in a nearby park.
"I can't tell you how many times the cops would tell us to go home, but not before they put our cases of beer in their trunk," he recalled.
He lived across the street from his Irish-born grandparents and rarely strayed far from the tree-lined block of modest, vinyl-sided homes. In those days, everything you wanted was in Woodside, a close-knit, blue-collar place filled with Germans, Italians and plenty of Irish. These days, Mr. Walsh's neighbors are strangers who speak languages he can't understand. "I used to know everyone on the block," he said recently, sitting in front of the large-screen television that dominates his living room. "Now I can count the old-timers on one hand."
Michael Walsh was the third of four children born to Catherine O'Neil, a legal secretary, and Thomas Walsh, who ran a tavern on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. When Michael was 7 and his parents separated, his father moved just two blocks away. Mike was no A student at Power Memorial Academy a Catholic school on the West Side, and playing ball always took precedence over homework, he says. As an adolescent, he sometimes got into trouble with the priests who ran the school.
"Like most of us, Mike could be mischievous, stealing gum from the candy store or jumping turnstiles," recalled a longtime friend, Ed Wiley. "But Mike was basically a good kid."
After graduating from high school in 1979, Mr. Walsh moved to Bedford, Tex., where his mother had relocated several years earlier. After two semesters at a community college, Mr. Walsh dropped out and began working as a hotel banquet manager. Former hotel employees remember him as hard-working, solicitous and honest during his six years there. Michael Walsh, they say, was someone you could trust.
But Mr. Walsh grew tired of the hospitality business and never felt entirely comfortable in Texas. In 1984, encouraged by a New York City detective staying at the hotel, he applied to the Police Department back home, and after a year he received word that he had been accepted.
Six months later, he found himself in the 30th Precinct, which at one square mile, is one of the city's smallest but busiest precincts. By then, the emergence of crack was turning the picturesque blocks around City College into one of the city's most dangerous neighborhoods. In the mid-80's, the precinct's homicide rate began to soar and the nightly pop of gunfire became more common than the blare of car horns.
To a wide-eyed rookie, it was a great time to be a cop, and Officer Walsh embraced his job with zeal, former colleagues say. "There was always action and lots of arrests to be made," Mr. Walsh said. "I wasn't the kind of guy who wanted to stand on a street corner watching the traffic go by." In his first few years on the job, Mr. Walsh took part in more than 100 arrests and received eight citations for outstanding police work.
It was not long after his assignment that Mr. Walsh realized something in the 30th Precinct wasn't right. On the street, tensions between the police and local residents were high and it wasn't uncommon to be called "ladro," meaning thief, by the young men hanging around the pay phones that sprouted like weeds on the avenues. One summer day in 1987, during a raid on a drug-infested row on Edgecombe Avenue, Mr. Walsh says he overheard some veteran officers shout "Payday!" when they found a black gym bag full of cash and drugs. When they realized he was within earshot, they playfully thrust the bag his way and said, "Want some?"
That night, as evidence from the raid was laid out in the muster room, Mr. Walsh noticed the bag's absence. "I was shocked," he said, "but when I mentioned it to some other cops, they just brushed me off."
It didn't take long, however, to cross the line between law enforcer and lawbreaker. According to Mr. Walsh's account, it began with a gift from a colleague, a brown paper bag filled with cash. On a blustery December evening in 1987, Mr. Walsh and his partner responded to a radio call of shots fired, a routine occurrence in Harlem. They arrived at 736 Riverside Drive to find a 21-year-old man in his underwear, splashed with blood, a bullet hole in his thigh. As medics tended to the wounded man, Mr. Walsh made a cursory search of the apartment and found a red suitcase stuffed with money. But before he could turn over the bag to a nearby sergeant, another officer, Fred Novoua, snatched it.
"Don't worry, I'll take care of this," he told Officer Walsh.
A few hours later, while Officer Walsh was changing in the station house locker room, Officer Novoua passed him the bag with $1,500, explaining, "This is your share." Before he could utter a response, Officer Novoua was gone. In retrospect, Mr. Walsh understands his comrade's generosity. It was a test to see if the rookie patrolman could be trusted within the precinct's cabal of wayward officers.
Officer Walsh passed the test.
At first, he contemplated returning the bag, but his desire to fit in, he says, convinced him he was better off doing nothing. "For weeks afterwards I was terrified of getting caught, but the idea of being a rat was even more terrifying," he said. "I guess it was the easy way out."
It wasn't until a year later that he started stealing on his own, he says. Usually he would just grab a fistful of dollars when the opportunity came his way. Once, while responding to a domestic dispute call in an apartment on 153d Street, he spotted a shoe tree in a closet stuffed with hundred-dollar bills. While his partner interviewed the tenants in another room, Mr. Walsh filled his pockets with cash. As time went on, Mr. Walsh says, he got greedier and began searching out known drug spots to rob.
"Everyone seemed like they were doing the same thing, so I thought, well, if they're enriching themselves, why shouldn't I?" he said. "I figured it's only drug money. Who's going to miss it anyhow?"
Beginning in 1989, when he was moved from day tours to the midnight detail, Mr. Walsh found himself among the precinct's most voracious thieves, including Officer Alvarez, who investigators say did little more on his shifts than steal. Officer Alvarez introduced him to the idea that stealing drugs was no different than taking money. An uncle of Officer Alvarez who lived in the neighborhood would sell the goods, and after taking a cut for himself, Officer Alvarez would turn the money over to Officer Walsh.
"I always swore to myself I'd never touch narcotics," he said. "But then somehow I convinced myself that I wasn't really dealing, because Alvarez was doing the dirty work."
Around the same time, he committed the first in a series of perjuries, falsely testifying about arrests he made, often to cover up his thefts. The perjuries were part of the cat-and-mouse games between marauding officers and the dealers, who by the late 1980's, had learned not to leave valuables around and had devised elaborate ways to hide their stashes. Frustrated by the dealers' increasing wiliness, the police began to frisk jittery-looking men on the sidewalk looking for what became known as "felony keys." Because most of the neighborhood's poor residents had inexpensive locks on their doors, anyone carrying high-quality keys was assumed to be a dealer and fair game.
Felony keys often yielded handsome rewards, but in time the dealers outsmarted the police again, installing dead bolts that could be opened only by remote control. That didn't stop the more brazen officers from crashing through apartment doors with sledgehammers, a practice known as "booming." Sometimes Officer Walsh would arrive at a notorious drug location to find a dozen doors smashed in, usually a sign that Nannery's Raiders, a group of eight young officers supervised by Sgt. Kevin P. Nannery, had already passed through.
On one cold February night in 1991, Mr. Walsh and his partner at the time, Blake Struller, broke into an apartment on 140th Street and found a bag with $115,000. It was believed to be the largest single heist ever made in the precinct. Even Mr. Walsh was intimidated by the take. For a week, he was afraid to remove his share ($57,000) from the trunk of his Chevy Blazer.
He says he stole 34 times. Unlike other officers who used the proceeds of their plunder to buy flashy cars or expensive clothing, Officer Walsh spent most of his money, a sum he says totaled $120,000, on alcohol, gambling and loans to friends. After finishing a midnight tour, Officer Walsh would either join a group of officers who drank until dawn at the Blarney Stone in Washington Heights or go alone to Belmont Race Track.
"Sometimes I'd lose $3,000 in one day," he recalled. "Money just didn't mean anything to me."
Family and friends outside the force say they never had any idea Officer Walsh was on the take. "Mike was incredibly generous, but I never thought anything of it," said his mother, who remembers his spending an easy $500 on each of his four nieces and nephews at Christmas.
By the early 1990's, the precinct had descended into a frenzied state of wanton thievery. At one point, Mr. Walsh recalls, someone was stealing weights from the station house gym. Twice, the cable boxes in the television lounge disappeared. Even rolls of toilet paper began vanishing from a storage closet. In 1993, the Mollen Commission began hearings on police corruption with a star witness known as Officer Otto. Testifying in disguise, the officer described an unnamed renegade precinct in which officers ran roughshod over the law, shaking down dealers and pocketing large sums of cash.
Mr. Walsh remembers the nervous banter in the precinct lounge as a group of officers watched the hearings on television. "Everyone was making wisecracks, saying, 'I bet you're Officer Otto,' but deep inside, I think we were all a little worried about what might be coming down."
Officer Otto, in fact, was Barry Brown, a 30th Precinct officer. That fall, as the paranoia peaked, officers began patting one another down for wires. Rumor had it that one or more officers had already been arrested and returned to the precinct wearing bugs. The rumors, it turned out, were true. By late 1993, around the time Officer Walsh began working at McDonald's, three officers, including Officer Alvarez, were gathering evidence against him.
 
'We Got You, Mike, And We Got You Good'
On the night of his arrest, the night the doorbell rang, investigators from Internal Affairs drove him across the Brooklyn Bridge. Michael Walsh remembers thinking there might still be a way out. But when he got to 26 Federal Plaza, he knew the game was over. Plainly visible on a reception desk sign-in sheet were the names of a half-dozen officers with whom he had committed the bulk of his crimes. Later, as Officer Walsh sat under the glare of fluorescent lights, an investigator delivered the punch line he was afraid to hear: they had him on tape.
"We got you, Mike, and we got you good," the officer said. "Think of your family."
Within an hour, Officer Walsh had agreed to cooperate. He didn't cry, beg for leniency or try to explain, prosecutors say. He never even requested a lawyer. William Burmeister, chief of the corruption unit for the Manhattan District Attorney, who was with the officer after his arrest, described him as stoic.
"But beneath the blank expression, you could still see his agony," Mr. Burmeister said. "He had hit rock bottom."
By the time he was released on $250,000 bond the next night, television cameras were already waiting outside his home. Over the next month, he went outside only to see his lawyer or to speak with prosecutors. One frustrated reporter warned his wife that if he didn't come to the door to talk, his newspaper would "rip him to shreds."
During the worst moments of his arrest, his testimony and his betrayal of fellow officers, Mr. Walsh says, he often contemplated suicide.
"Every time it entered my mind, I just thought of Laski and what his death did to everyone around him," he said. "I decided to stick it out."
 
3 Photos, 3 Addresses And an End to Freedom
On Friday, Michael Walsh went to prison. He had a hard time filling his last days of freedom. He made long-needed repairs to his house, got a haircut and said goodbye to a few friends. But mostly he sat in front of the television and paced around his living room like a caged animal.
"I'm trying to think of this as a three-year vacation," he joked on Thursday, the eve of his surrender to Federal marshals.
Although he had asked to be sent to a prison near his mother's home in East Texas, he was dismayed to learn last week that his time would be spent at a minimum-security jail 14 hours away. Counting time off for good behavior, Mr. Walsh will have to serve at least two and a half years.
On his last night, after he had lemon chicken for dinner with his Aunt Lucy at a Queens restaurant, he went out drinking. There was not much else to do: besides the clothes on his back, he was told he could bring only three photographs and three written addresses. At one point that night he sat at his kitchen table, running his fingers through his hair. He did not have much to say.
"Listen," he said, smiling weakly, "you play in life, you pay in life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEFORE PRISON -- His going-away party felt "like a cross between an Irish wake and a Sweet 16 party," a friend said. (Steve Hart for The New York Times); MOMENT OF TRUTH -- Police Commissioner William Bratton visits the station house in 1994 after the first wave of arrests. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); THE BIGGEST HAUL -- At 520 West 140th Street, Officer Walsh took $115,000 from a suspected drug dealer. Even he was unerved by the size of the theft; ( HIGH SCHOOL DAYS -- He never wanted to be an officer. He hated the police. (pg. 22); LAST NIGHT OF FREEDOM -- He dreaded leaving his house. He would flee when other officers recognized him and called him a "rat." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. 23)
 
Charts: "Portrait of a Corrupt Precinct"
 
Number of officers assigned to the 30th Precinct: 192
Number assigned to patrol: 90
Number arrested: 33 patrol officers, including 2 sergeants
Number convicted or pleaded guilty: 26
Aquittals: 2
Time span of crimes: 1986-94
Charges: Drug trafficking, extortion, perjury, civil rights violations, income tax evasion, assault, evidence tampering, robbery.
Crimes: Included shooting a drug dealer and stealing cocaine from his pocket; stealing thousands of dollars from a vouchered safe; beating up suspects; petty thefts like taking tires from the car of a suspected drug dealer; railroad ties from a Metro-North storage yard and toilet paper from a precinct storage closet.
Aftermath: 16 sentenced to date, receiving penalties from probation to 96 months in prison.
Impact: As a result of perjuries, 13 defendents were released from jail and 125 sentences set aside. (pg. 22)
 
 
Officer: Michael Walsh
Age: 35
Precinct: 30th in Harlem
Admitted Stealing: $120,000 in cash and drugs
Places He Spent It: Blarney Stone, Belmont Race Track (pg. 1)
 
 
Map show area of the 30th Police Precinct. (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722211 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); COCAINE (75%); SHOOTINGS (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: WALSH, MICHAEL (FORMER POLICE OFFICER); JACOBS, ANDREW MICHAEL WALSH (95%); JORGE ALVAREZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



234 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2576 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Germany's Phone Giant Is Bracing for Invaders

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
IT is a telephone company that managed to overcharge 11 million customers last New Year's Day, thanks to a computer glitch. Its prices are among the highest in the world, with long-distance charges more than double those in the United States. It has 207,000 employees, about 37,000 more than it wants, and a hobbling burden of debt. Now, its Government-sanctioned monopoly is about to end, and potential rivals ranging from the German national railway to the electric companies are circling hungrily for a piece of its market.
Would you buy shares in this company? 
 Next week, you'll have the chance. Deutsche Telekom A.G., Germany's state-owned telephone company, is going public in one of the largest stock offerings ever. Investors from America to Asia will get a piece of the action, and shares will trade on the New York, Tokyo and Frankfurt exchanges. Thanks to a saturation advertising campaign and a last-minute decision to offer a rich dividend, the shares are expected to be wildly oversubscribed here in Germany.
The offering of just 20 percent of Deutsche Telekom (the Government will retain the rest and still run the show) should raise about $10 billion, making it the second-largest initial public stock offering in Europe's history, after British Petroleum's $12.4 billion transaction in 1987. That would value the company at $50 billion, not far from the AT&T Corporation's current market capitalization of $56 billion. And that won't be the end of it. If this offering goes well, the German Government is planning to sell another $10 billion worth of Telekom stock two years from now.
So much for the numbers. For long-term investors, the overriding question is how Deutsche Telekom can adapt to a more competitive environment. In Germany and throughout most of Europe, telephone customers are begging if not screaming for alternatives to the state monopolies. And they will soon get them: All 15 members of the European Union have agreed to throw their telephone markets open to full competition on Jan. 1, 1998. The economic confederation's new policy, which will be enforced by antitrust authorities at the European Commission in Brussels, will abolish monopolies in both local and long-distance service in one swoop.
In Germany, Europe's biggest and richest economy, at least three multibillion-dollar consortiums have already been formed to attack Deutsche Telekom head-to-head. One is being led by Deutsche Bahn, Germany's national railway, and Mannesmann A.G., an industrial conglomerate, with AT&T as a junior partner. A second is being orchestrated by Germany's biggest electric utility, RWE A.G., in alliance with Veba A.G., a diversified conglomerate and Germany's fourth-largest company, and with Cable and Wireless of Britain. Yet another challenger is British Telecommunications P.L.C., which teamed up with Viag A.G., another electric utility that controls the electric market in southern Germany.
At stake is more than just Germany's $50 billion telephone market, big as that is. With Europe dissolving its protective telecommunications boundaries, any company with global ambitions must fight for the upper hand in Europe. Already, Deutsche Telekom may be dangerously behind.
British Telecom, which has been cutting costs and streamlining operations since it was privatized in 1984, is pumping billions of dollars into partnerships in almost every country of the European Union. And when the company announced a $22 billion merger this month with MCI Communications, the No. 2 long-distance carrier in the United States, after AT&T, its global reach suddenly looked even more formidable.
With British Telecom nipping at its heels, Deutsche Telekom must do more than just sell stock. It must reinvent itself, and quickly, to ward off a horde of competitors at home and position itself for a global power struggle that is heating up almost by the day. It is certainly fighting ferociously to protect its turf. If it can hold the line, analysts say, it might yet become a global force like AT&T and Nippon Telephone and Telegraph and justify the price that its underwriters are asking of 25 to 30 Deutsche marks ($16.53 to $19.83) a share.
Even so, for American investors, the European field of battle looks almost chaotic. The market remains fragmented and overregulated. Governments are torn between their sworn goal of promoting competition and their responsibility as owners to promote the monopolies they are trying to undo. Industry alliances shift so quickly that it is hard to predict which ones will endure and which will collapse tomorrow.
ONE of the oddest aspects of European deregulation is the specter, in country after country, of one government monopoly battling another still-existing or former government monopoly: Just as mostly Government monopolies are going after Deutsche Telekom in Germany, the top challenger to France Telecom is Compagnie Generale des Eaux, the French national water company; in Spain, the Government is expected to grant a license to the country's biggest television-transmission station to go head to head with Telefonica de Espana.
British Telecom's recent experience in Germany reflects the turbulence of the competitive scramble. This year, it announced a $2.7 billion deal to link up with both RWE and Viag to lay fiber-optic cables along the utilities' far-flung rights-of-way. The partnership would have all but guaranteed the British company a huge chunk of the German phone business.
But RWE defected, agreeing to pay $1.66 billion for a 22 percent stake in the alliance between Veba and Cable and Wireless. The ground may be shifting again. Given the huge price tag for MCI, some analysts wonder whether British Telecom has decided to reorder its priorities and pull back from Germany. Other analysts say it may attempt to exploit its MCI connection to attract other partners in the German market.
Deutsche Telekom is pulling out all the stops to overcome the legacy of its bureaucratic past. Two years ago, it recruited Ron Sommer, president of Sony Europe, as its new chairman. Mr. Sommer, who is 47 and holds a Ph.D. in mathematics, declined to be interviewed for this article, citing American restrictions on commenting about public offerings. But in Germany he has been a Technicolor whirlwind, giving countless interviews to talk up the stock and masterminding a dazzling advertising campaign that he boasts has created "stock fever" among Germany's citizens, who are ordinarily conservative investors.
Mr. Sommer, of course, faces enormous challenges, not the least of which is slashing nearly 40,000 people from Deutsche Telekom's payroll, to 170,000 by the year 2000. Because he is forbidden by the company's contract with the union to lay off workers, he will have to meet that goal through attrition or early-retirement incentives, which have already cost $2.25 billion since 1994.
For all its problems, though, Deutsche Telekom holds almost insurmountable advantages over its potential competitors. In 1995, it had revenue of $43.6 billion and net profit of $3.48 billion. With that kind of financial power, it would have to do a lot wrong to leave itself vulnerable in 1998.
Instead, it has been working hard to drum up business. It has all but completed an entirely new phone system for the former East Germany and a second huge project to modernize its network in the west. During the last year, it has spent $85 million to subsidize the introduction of snappy digital telephone lines that allow customers to hook up to the Internet or to on-line computer services at about three times the speed of traditional phone lines. Not stopping there, the company rolled out a relatively cheap and jazzy Internet service called T-Online, which has signed up 1.1 million customers, far more in Germany than its biggest rivals, Compuserve and America Online.
All told, Deutsche Telekom spent about $87.5 billion on new digital technology between 1990 and 1995, and its network is now considered one of the most modern in the world. Even though the company still has a mountain of more than $60 billion of debt, it has reduced capital spending sharply, from $13 billion in 1993 to $7.5 billion in 1995 and about the same level this year.
Though Deutsche Telekom has been much more inward-looking than British Telecom, it has invested about $4.4 billion overseas in the last few years. Its highest-profile move was a three-way alliance with France Telecom and Sprint, in which the two European companies each paid $1.8 billion for a combined stake of 20 percent in Sprint.
Deutsche Telekom also joined forces with Ameritech, one of the Baby Bells, to buy a controlling stake in the Hungarian national phone company, and it has acquired minority stakes in the telephone companies of Malaysia and the Philippines, as well as in an Indonesian mobile-phone satellite company.
What is most striking, however, is the company's apparent lack of interest in expanding its base in Europe. The contrast with British Telecom is stark; the British company has formed major partnerships in about a half-dozen European countries, including Italy and France, aimed at competing with established telephone monopolies on all fronts when the European Union's regulatory barriers come down in 1998.
British Telecom, of course, has had an enormous head start, thanks to the free-market policies of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. The company went public during her administration with the same sort of hoopla that Deutsche Telekom is generating now. Like Deutsche Telekom, British Telecom had to transform itself at the time from a bloated Government monopoly into a profit-oriented company.
It more than succeeded, transforming itself over the years into a competitive powerhouse. The British Government opened up the market gradually but steadily, with Cable and Wireless moving quickly to build up a rival local and long-distance service. American telephone companies and cable television operators moved in, too, including Tele-Communications Inc., U S West and Nynex.
As a measure of how well British Telecom weathered the competitive storm, it retains almost 90 percent of the British telephone market. By contrast, AT&T's share of the American long-distance market slumped to just over 60 percent in 1990, from 90 percent at the time the seven regional Bells were spun off, also in 1984.
Hans Ehnert, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, acknowledged that the company had been slow off the mark -- but that it had no choice because it was prohibited by law from foreign investment until two years ago. "We were late and we are newcomers to the scene," Mr. Ehnert said. "But if you look at what we've done, what is surprising is how much we've done in such a short time."
That may be so. But as national barriers come down just 14 months from now, companies like British Telecom clearly believe that the name of the game is having networks across the Continent that can then be connected in a broader international net. If it is right, Deutsche Telekom could be left with its own market under siege and few offsetting advantages outside Germany.
In the interim, the Government in Bonn has moved vigorously to promote the interests of its telephone monolith -- coddling, its critics call it. Last January, the company sparked a public uproar by announcing plans to increase its prices for basic local telephone service and cut prices for long distance. Consumer groups cried foul, and Germany's Minister of Telecommunications angrily ordered a review of Deutsche Telekom's costs. But the plans were eventually approved, on the promise that the company would come up with a discount plan akin to MCI's "Friends and Family" program in the United States.
BUT the matter did not end there. Deutsche Telekom also won Government support for a plan to offer corporate customers rebates of up to 40 percent. This proposal infuriated fledgling rivals as well as the European Union's top antitrust regulator, Karel Van Miert, a Belgian.
Veba and others protested that letting Deutsche Telekom offer big rebates in the only area in which it faced competition would make it far more difficult for them to get off the ground in 1998. Similarly, Mr. Van Miert objected that the plan would allow the company to undercut rivals in the only niche in which they can now do business: private corporate networks.
But those arguments fell largely on deaf ears. Germany's Minister for Telecommunications, Wolfgang Botsch, not only sided firmly with Telekom but flew to Brussels several times to make his case with Mr. Van Miert. And, in a blatant breach of the Government's supposed impartiality, Mr. Botsch was joined by Deutsche Telekom's chairman, Mr. Sommer, on the last of these trips on Oct. 23, industry executives who spoke on the condition of anonymity said. According to the executives, Mr. Sommer initially waited outside the meeting room but was later invited in.
One week later, Mr. Van Miert approved Deutsch Telekom's plans on the condition that the German Government push through tough regulations to let rivals connect into Deutsche Telekom's network.
The rivals are still angry, complaining that Mr. Botsch showed favoritism in flying to Brussels time and again on Deutsche Telekom's behalf, but never on theirs. "One big problem in Germany is that Telekom is going public at the same time as liberalization," said Peter Mihatsch, the head of Mannesmann's telecommunications business who is supposed to head the Deutsche Bahn group that includes Cable and Wireless, AT&T and Mannesmann.
Mannesmann and Veba are now worried that Mr. Botsch will not honor his promise to push through tough interconnection rules. Though arcane, these rules are crucial for competitors because they determine the prices a rival has to pay an established phone company to connect with its network.
For all the financial and political power of Deutsche Telekom, its smaller challengers aren't conceding a thing. William Coleman, an analyst at HSBC James Capel in London, said they had a built-in advantage over their bigger rival because the latest technology made the cost of entering a market significantly less than the cost of maintaining an outmoded infrastructure.
In Germany, they are also attracting top talent. For example, Mr. Mihatsch, the man anointed to take charge of the venture led by Deutsche Bahn, was the architect of Mannesmann's successful challenge to Deutsche Telekom in cellular telephones. Mannesmann, which obtained a nationwide cellular license for Germany and started service in 1992, racked up 500,000 customers by the end of 1993 by rolling out a digital network that offered better service than Deutsche Telekom's old analog network. Deutsche Telekom was so surprised that it rushed out its own digital network.
And Ulf Bohla, the head of the Veba-led consortium in Germany, was a top lieutenant of John F. Akers, the former I.B.M. chairman, and was later assigned to a senior I.B.M. post in Europe. Mr. Bohla says Europe is facing a far more traumatic adjustment to open competition than the United States had. "In the U.S.," he said, "you let the regional Bell companies keep their monopolies intact for years, and you are only now moving toward competition in the local exchange. Here, it's full competition from Day One, and it's much, much less regulated. As a result, it will be a much harder market in which to compete."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "World-Class Offerings" shows the biggest foreign stock offerings in which a portion was offered in the United States. (Source: Securities Data Co.)
 
Charts: "The Raiders for Europe's Phone Market"
The European Community is scheduled to open up its phone markets fully to competition on Jan. 1, 1998. In many countries, state-owned monopolies will find themselves fending off incursions not only from foreign telecommunications companies, but consortiums within their own borders.
 
Sweden
Tele Norda, the Norwegian phone company; Tele Danmark A.S., the Danish phone company, and British Telecom are teaming up to challenge the Swedish phone company.
 
Netherlands
British Telecom and Nederlands Spoorwegen, a Dutch railway operator, plan to use the rail network as a basis for a communications network.
 
France
BT and Compagnie Generale des Eaux, the dominant French water distributor and the owner of the nation's second-biggest cellular network, plan to take on France Telecom. BT will pay $1.8 billion for a 25 percent stake in the joint venture, which will build a full service network along water pipelines.
SNCF, the French national railway, is taking partnership bids from Generale des Eaux, which is already aligned with BT, and STET S.p.A., the Italian phone company.
 
Spain
Retevision, Spain's state-owned television transmission service, plans to challenge Telefonica de Espana S.A. BT and Banco Santander, the big Spanish bank, have a joint venture and may well team up with Retevision, which will get the first license to compete with Telefonica de Espanan.
 
Italy
Italian Railways is taking bids from potential partners to compete against STET. Bidders include Albacomm, a joint venture of BT, Banco Nacional del Lavorro and Mediaset (controlled by former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi). France Telecom and Livetti S.p.A. are also bidding.
 
Germany
Deutsche Telekom A.G. controls the $50 billion German telephone market, but three consortiums are preparing a broad challenge.
 
Deutsche Bahn A.G., the German national railway; Mannesmann A.G., a diversified company and owner of the D2 Cellular network covering German; AT&T, and others.
Deutsche Bahn, which already operates a private communications network along its 40,000 kilometers of track, will build a network throughout Germany. Mannesmann will run it. Unisource, a consortium owned by AT&T and several smaller European phone companies, will provide international connections.
 
RWE A.G., Germany's biggest electric utility company; Veba A.G., a conglomerate that also owns electric utilities, and Cable and Wireless P.L.C., a British telecommunications company.
RWE and Veba will build networks alongside electric lines and gas pipelines. Cable and Wireless will provide the international connections.
 
British Telecom Viag A.G., which owns electric utilities in southern Germany. It is unclear how this venture will work, since another partner, RWE, recently defected to a rival consortium. (pg. 5)
 
"AT A GLANCE: Deutsche Telekom A.G." list company information, including financial comparisons with AT&T. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Company reports) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); DTE (FRA) (84%); DTE (BIT) (84%); EOAN (FRA) (60%); EOAN (BIT) (60%); RWE (FRA) (60%); BP (NYSE) (54%); BP (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (60%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (60%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (60%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); SIC4013 RAILROAD SWITCHING & TERMINAL ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM; EUROPEAN UNION AT&T INC (95%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (84%); MANNESMANN AG (61%); E.ON SE (60%); RWE AG (60%); DEUTSCHE BAHN AG (57%); BP PLC (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRIVATIZATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (84%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); MONOPOLIZATION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BONDS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



235 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

THE STOCK MARKET
Condemned to Repetition?
Rats in a maze -- the more adept ones, anyway -- don't keep smashing into the same wall. By all appearances, today's investors don't share the rats' reverence for history. Four times since World War I, the Dow industrials have risen more than 50 percent in the two years between elections. The first three -- 1926-28, 1934-36 and 1984-86 -- were followed quickly by a market crash, a recession, and another crash. The fourth was 1994-96, when the Dow soared 59 percent. History, in short, says sell. Investors, in short, bought. The day after the election, the Dow leapfrogged 96 points, to -- need one say it -- yet another record. The logic, it seemed, was that the status quo -- a Democratic President, a Republican Congress -- had worked so well that investors rejoiced at continued gridlock. The flaw in the logic: Nothing ever stays the same. The past two years are history (you know, the stuff you learn from).
 
OTHER VOTES
Let Business Be Business
And on the morning after, business smiled. Not necessarily at the big-ticket election results, but at the results of state ballot initiatives, which for the most part came down on the side of letting companies operate as freely as they have been. Californians refused to make it easier to sue companies, and Maine voters chose not to ban clear-cutting of forests. H.M.O.'s averted some efforts in several states to limit their ability to set their own rules. Oregon, though, drew the line at tobacco, with voters approving a 68-cent tax on a pack of cigarettes to help out with the state's health care. Does that mean the little people are the losers? Not necessarily. California business leaders say that a few big lawyers were churning out the flood of suits against companies.
 
LANDMARKS
If Grand Central Were a Beer
The world adores new stuff, the sleeker the better, but balances that with a craving to protect old stuff. But while venerable buildings get the protective embrace of landmark status, there's no such haven for, say, treasured symbols, civic images. Take Milwaukee. A city, of course, dripping with beer. Can you imagine it without Pabst, without Schlitz? Unthinkable. Since German immigrants started brewing here in the 1840's, the image of a city built on beer has been imprinted on the nation's identity. Yet Schlitz closed in 1982, and now the Pabst plant is also closing by yearend, with the beer to be made at the Stroh brewery in La Crosse, Wis. Hmmm. Pabst, the beer that made La Crosse famous? Not even with Schlitz would that sound right.
 
AUTOS
Used Cars Galore
Today's endangered species: people who actually buy new cars. Many people who drive off in new models lease them, and more and more just buy used ones -- an estimated 73 percent of buyers this year, up from 64 percent six years ago. And if proof were needed that this is big business, last week Republic Industries, led by H. Wayne Huizenga, agreed to buy Alamo Rent-a-Car. The point, clearly, is that Alamo, like any other car renter, turns out a stream of used cars. And as it happens, Republic just bought Auto Nation, a chain of giant used-car lots, so it has a near-bottomless demand for auto makers' day-old bread. The next possible step: an alliance between Auto Nation and General Motors, which supplies up to 75 percent of Alamo's fleet.
 
CORPORATE WOMEN
The Picture-Frame Ceiling
It comes down to the family picture on the office desk. If a man has it, that fits the corporate image perfectly; if a woman has it, she'll be stuck on the Mommy track. At least that's what's being heard from those who say women aren't moving up fast enough on the corporate ladder. "To be successful in a lot of companies," said one specialist on gender issues, "a woman has to conform to the image of someone who doesn't have an outside life." Two recent studies seem to back that up. One shows that just 61 of the nation's largest 500 companies have a woman among their top five earners. Interestingly, though, not many of those 61 appear in another study, which lists companies with the best work and family policies. One possible conclusion, as another expert put it: If women make it, they "are making it in the old-fashioned way" -- in a male world.
 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
New Muscle for MCI
All phone wars are local, Tip O'Neill never said. Yes, yes, the British Telecom-MCI merger announced last week is yet another sign of a shrinking planet -- it is expected to speed the opening of overseas markets and could lead to an overhaul of trans-Atlantic long-distance rates. But what does this deal -- the largest foreign takeover ever, one that creates the world's first trans-Atlantic phone company -- mean on the local front? Simple: MCI will now have the resources to step up its assault on local markets in 25 American cities. This could mean lower rates, not just for calls to London but for calls around the corner. AT&T isn't happy about the merger, but there is probably little it can do to block it.
 
TOBACCO WARS
5 Million? Not Necessarily
The Government had a message for teen-agers last week: smoking will kill more than five million of you prematurely. But for adults, who have it in their power to change things, it also had a message: those five million don't have to die. States have widely different smoking rates, it said, and Massachusetts and California, which have put real effort into cutting smoking by raising taxes and using some of the proceeds for anti-tobacco ads, have made clear progress. California ranks just above Utah, the least smoky state, where the rate is held down by the anti-tobacco Mormon Church. An election footnote, by the way: according to one poll, 53 percent of smokers voted for Bill Clinton, a determined tobacco foe, versus 36 percent for Bob Dole -- a result decidedly more lopsided than the overall vote. What's up? Do they think he'll help them quit?
 
EUROPEANS
Altered Soybeans? No, Thanks
So what if the F.D.A. and the European Union have given their blessings to genetically engineered soybeans? That's not enough for many Europeans. They don't want them, period. And when the first shipment arrived in Hamburg last week, they said so in no uncertain terms, vowing boycotts and other protests. With memories fresh of Britain's mad-cow disease, they rebelled against this tinkering with food -- all done in that never-ending search for the grail of higher yields, of squeezing out the extra soybean. This is no small matter, for soybeans are a big American farm export, finding their way into everything from margarine to livestock feed.
 
LIQUOR ADVERTISING
'Open Season on Kids'?
The ban on liquor ads on television and radio has always been unusual, for a simple reason: it was voluntary. In other advertising battles, each side fights bitterly over every inch of turf, but the liquor industry apparently decided decades ago that it wasn't appropriate to lure people to partake of demon rum -- or demon whisky or demon vodka. But Seagram recently broke ranks and started running liquor ads, and last week the industry officially scrapped the ban -- perhaps spurred on by the nation's 29 percent drop in liquor consumption since 1980. There was some noise about not aiming ads at minors, but the sad fact is that youngsters respond more to ads. "This is a bad day," said one public-interest advocate. "The liquor industry has declared open season on kids." Not that liquor ads will suddenly flood the airwaves, though: the four networks have no intention of accepting them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bert Roberts of MCI and Sir Iain Vallance of British Telecom. (Reuters)
 
Graphs: "Condemned to Repetition?" shows large historical changes in the Dow industrials over a two-year period that were followed by a recession or market crash.; "5 Million? Not Necessarily" shows the five states with the greatest percentage of smokers and the five states with the smallest percentage. (Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (52%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ELECTIONS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); BONDS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); BALLOTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); BREWERIES (66%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (64%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (63%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (62%); WORLD WAR I (57%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



236 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
 
Veterans Day: stock markets open, bond markets and many banks closed.
 
TUESDAY
 
Earnings reports are expected from Dell Computer and TJX.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
The Labor Department releases the Producer Price Index for October.
 
The Federal Open Market Committee meets to set interest-rate policy.
 
THURSDAY
 
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for October. In September they rose 0.7 percent.
 
The Labor Department releases the Consumer Price Index for October. In September it rose 0.3 percent.
 
FRIDAY
 
The Federal Reserve reports on industrial production and capacity utilization for October. In September, production rose 0.2 percent and capacity utilization stood at 83.3 percent.
 
The University of Michigan releases its index of consumer sentiment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELL COMPUTER CORP (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BONDS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (85%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (85%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (85%); RETAIL SALES (55%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



237 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: Middle America;
Coming Home From the Revolution

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

 BODY:
WHAT happened to the anger, the boiling discontent, the hunger for change? How did the country end up with a split-the-difference Government after four years of a Great Upheaval that destroyed a Republican President in 1992, shattered a Democratic House in 1994 and upended 60 years of social welfare policy in 1995?
This was supposed to be the era of the big political crack-up. Of a conservative realignment. Maybe even of an emerging third party. Yet here we are, at the end of it all: divided government, again. A President who hugs the center tighter and tighter, having campaigned on appeals for school uniforms and the V-chip, the protection of Medicare and increased family and medical leave. A chastened -- and much narrower -- Republican House majority that spent much of this campaign running away from its revolutionary image. An electorate whose dominant image was an army of soccer moms driving to the polls in their mini-vans: pick up the kids, drop off the dry cleaning, move the Government to the center again. 
 If the political tumult of the 1990's has indeed come to a close, it may be that the politicians simply overestimated all along how much change the voters wanted, and forgot that the country is a lot more like Mayberry R.F.D. than Paris 1848. Yes, voters were anxious and discontented in 1992, buffeted by a recession and the anxieties of a shifting global economy. But that didn't mean that they wanted the greatest expansion of the social welfare system since the New Deal, as Mr. Clinton attempted with his plan to remake the health care system, or the greatest contraction of it, as Newt Gingrich attempted with his Contract With America.
Another possibility is that the era isn't over. Tuesday's election results could signal that the voters, wielding the blunt instrument of elections, have collectively begun to figure out how much change they want and to calibrate their message. They may have lowered their expectations a little. They may have recognized that the system has, in fact, responded to some of their yearnings. At the same time, as Stanley Greenberg, the Democratic pollster, put it, "if the economy faltered, I have no doubt that the anger would rise fairly quickly and it wouldn't take much for the underlying anxieties to come out."
The election of 1996, in other words, may turn out to have been less an end to the national upheaval than a mid-course correction.
Well before last Wednesday morning, the conventional wisdom was that much of the tumult of the last four years was due to the hubris of politicians, spinning elaborate mandates from raw election returns. Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Clinton seemed to have taken that lesson to heart; by the end of last week, the two were declaring a mandate for nothing more controversial than a search for "common ground."
 
'More Realistic Electorate'
But their overreaching, in hindsight, may have been necessary to effect any change at all. The Framers made it hard to accomplish big things in the American political system, even when the voters want them. The power of interest groups makes it hard to accomplish even little things. Maybe Mr. Clinton had to try for national health insurance to set the stage for the incremental changes that were to come, like the new law protecting health insurance for people who change jobs and perhaps an effort in the next Congress to expand coverage for children. Maybe Mr. Gingrich had to declare a revolution to bring about a commitment to a balanced budget seven years from now, another long-running concern of the voters.
Along the way, the voters clearly learned something about the costs and the difficulties of change. "This is a much more realistic electorate, I would argue, than we had in 1992," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster. Many voters learned that universal health insurance would cost more in upset, regulations and risk than they were willing to pay. Many learned that they could not roll back the Federal Government without hurting the programs they liked, such as Medicare.
How else to explain why Bob Dole's proposal to cut taxes by 15 percent fell flat? The last two years have been one long and bitter tutorial on how hard it is to balance the budget, let alone provide a huge tax cut.
There is another way of understanding the last four years: a lot has changed since 1992. The voters did, after all, get a redesigned Democratic Party, retrofitted for the slightly right-of-center 1990's. Mr. Clinton's repositioning since 1994 is often dismissed as a series of short-term tactical maneuvers to ride out a difficult moment in political time. But some historians argue that this redefinition, if it holds, is not a small development. Most analysts agree that the country has grown more conservative over the last 30 years. Mr. Clinton may have succeeded in moving his party toward the new center of political gravity.
"He made it possible for the Democratic Party to identify itself as moderate, responsible and non-frightening, but marginally more progressive than the Republicans," said Alan Brinkley, a professor of history at Columbia University. Even in the House, where the liberal wing of the party still holds sway within the Democratic caucus, Democrats have nonetheless followed suit; "Families First," their campaign manifesto this year, was a model of Clintonesque incrementalism, offering tax credits and other modest gestures to help people educate their children, hold on to their health insurance and protect their pensions -- in small ways.
Voters also ended up with a reconstituted Republican Party, stronger than 1992's but humbler than 1994's. Here, too, it is easy to dismiss the much-heralded Republican realignment of 1994 as hype, given the party's spectacularly unsuccessful Presidential campaign. Yet a brief look back to the 1980's suggests how much has changed. The Democrats not only held the House through that decade but had an average margin of nearly 80 seats.
At the very least, the voters have put the two parties at rough parity and allowed the conservatives to set many of the terms of the debate: The importance of a balanced budget by a fixed date. The focus on values. The almost universal get-tough attitude toward crime. The bipartisan decision to scale back basic welfare programs and turn them over to the states.
Walter Dean Burnham, a political scientist at the University of Texas, says the country may not be in the midst of a classic realignment of the kind it saw in 1932, but it is in the midst of a great shift toward "a new equilibrium very, very different from the old order." He added, "I don't know where this leads us."
Many others in politics agree that much remains unsettled from this period of upheaval. There is still a hunger for political reform, given new force late in the campaign by the disclosures about the Democrats' fund-raising practices. There is still alienation among many voters, a feeling that the two parties are simply not enough. And, most important, there is still a profound disagreement and conflict over the role of government.
"Regardless of the partisan balance, something about the shift in debate that was registered in 1994 is going to stay with us," said Theda Skocpol, a professor of government at Harvard and an expert in social policy. "There's just a sense that you can't use the Federal Government for big initiatives even if the national problems are big."
Yet while the public sides with the small-government camp in the abstract, the Democrats' defense of Medicare, education and environmental programs hit a powerful chord, particularly with women.
Surveys of people leaving the polls on Tuesday showed a sharp divide on the role of government, particularly between the sexes: 35 percent of the men thought the government should do more to solve problems, while 60 percent said it was already doing too many things better left to business and individuals. Women were evenly divided on the question.
The coming struggle over Social Security and other entitlements will be a test of how much conservative philosophy the voters are actually willing to live with. "I don't think it's at all settled that the privatizers will have their way," said Ms. Skocpol.
Scholars like Mr. Burnham say this debate was almost inevitable when the cold war -- and the prime rationale for a strong Federal Government -- ended. The mistrust of Washington began to climb in the late 1960's, amid riots, assassinations and the Vietnam war, and fed the anti-government politics of the Reagan era. Yet pollsters say it coexists, even among the same voters, with a desire to see some action out of Washington.
Many analysts believe that the Republicans saved their majority when they began cooperating with the President and producing legislation last summer. Linda DiVall, a Republican pollster, said, "The message of this election is not that people are content with divided government; actually, their vote was for productive government."
 
 
 
Unsolved Problems
 After all, as Mr. Greenberg, the Democratic pollster, argues, the underlying problems that many analysts believe triggered the upheaval of the early 1990's persist: the long-term problem of stagnant incomes and fear over the breakdown of the family. "The good economy has muted the anger, and we've been through a period of repeated, dashed expectations, which makes people cautious about calling on government to do big things," he said. "But that doesn't mean that the problems aren't still real and the potential anger isn't still real."
When the inevitable downturn comes, so, too, might the desperation and fury of the primaries of 1992. The basic question will be the same: Can't the Government do something? The competing fear will be the same, also: Can voters trust their Government to do the right thing? And the calm of 1996 may, in retrospect, look like the eye of a storm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



238 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Perspective;
Swifter, Higher, Stronger . . . Gender

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY 

 BODY:
The Israeli was chatting with the Palestinian in a neutral nation. But the conversation in Lausanne, Switzerland, had very little to do with tenuous peace agreements or tunnels under the Temple Mount.
The primary topic on the north shore of Lake Geneva was women and sport. 
 The Israeli was Yael Arad, the judo star who became the first athlete from her nation to win an Olympic medal when she took silver in 1992. Her interlocutor was Oreib Araf-Aryan, a young woman from Ramallah who was recently named manager of her would-be nation's underfunded and understaffed women's sports department.
"I have to say that I've lived in Israel all my life, and I've never met a real Palestinian," said the 29-year-old Arad. "All of a sudden, here I am sharing the same hotel and drinking coffee with one. It is very positive interaction. I was telling her: 'I am famous in Israel. I can come over the border, and I can help you with developing sport.' "
So it went for three days last month at the Olympic Museum, an idyllic spot conducive to idyllic thought.
When the International Olympic Committee decided to organize its first world conference on women and sport, the hosts were uncertain who would make the journey to Lausanne. They ended up greeting 220 participants from 96 countries with problems and experiences that were often as disparate as the physiques of the gymnast Kerri Strug and the basketball player Rebecca Lobo.
There were delegates from Senegal and other West African nations, where sport is widely considered an activity that damages a women's ability to bear children and where corpulence in women is encouraged as a reflection of their parents' and husbands' ability to provide. There were several delegates from Iran, where Islamic dress codes and mores mean that women do not compete internationally in sports like basketball, swimming and track and field. There were also representatives from the United States, where few major barriers remain and where new opportunities -- both competitive and commercial -- are emerging for female athletes at a heady pace.
"I think there's a real hesitancy on our part to make the assumption that what works in the United States is necessarily going to work in other countries," said Marjorie Snyder, the associate executive director of the Women's Sports Foundation. "The cultural differences are so vast that to take what we do and slap it onto the rest of the world would be a bit of hubris, I think."
Margaret McGregor, executive director of the Canadian Association for Women and Sport, said: "We're focusing on issues like self-esteem, eating disorders and sexual harassment in sport, and others here are worried about economic survival."
The most prominent and potentially volatile cultural gap in women's sport remains the divide between traditional Islamic nations and the Occident. But one of the conference's coups was that both perspectives were well represented, which had not been the case in 1994 when the first conference on women and sport was organized, independent of the I.O.C., in Brighton, England.
The Iranian delegation came to Lausanne in chadors, the hooded robes designed to hide the female form, and wielding stacks of public relations brochures. Leading the way was Faezeh Hashemi, the 33-year-old vice president of the Iranian Olympic Committee and daughter of the Iranian President, Hashemi Rafsanjani.
It was Hashemi's idea to organize the first Islamic Countries' Women's Sports Games in Iran in February 1993: an 11-nation competition that allowed women to compete against each other in eight sports in accordance with Islamic codes. Men were permitted at the opening and closing ceremonies and as spectators at events such as shooting, which could be performed in chadors. At events like basketball, men were excluded from the arena as women competed in less restrictive outfits.
The second Islamic women's games are scheduled for Pakistan next November. What Hashemi wanted to take away from the Lausanne conference was greater international awareness and tolerance for her brainchild. Last year, Atlanta Plus, a Paris-based group of feminists and academics, called for the I.O.C. to ban countries from the Olympics that discriminate against female athletes. But the I.O.C. rejected that tack as politically motivated, and Atlanta Plus was not represented in Lausanne. Though the I.O.C.'s charter precludes it from sanctioning events that are religious, rather than regional, in scope, the emerging policymakers in women's sport have chosen the path of constructive engagement with Hashemi's segregated games.
"If these games are the only way for women in these countries to compete in sport, then they must take the opportunity, and perhaps over time things will change," said Anita DeFrantz, the influential American I.O.C. member who was the driving force behind the Lausanne conference and who chairs a new I.O.C. working group on women and sport.
The I.O.C. hardly has been in the vanguard of the women's movement. Its founder in 1896, Baron Pierre de Coubertin, was a staunch opponent of female participation in the Olympics, and the I.O.C. did not admit female members until 1981, Juan Antonio Samaranch's first year as president.. Samaranch was present for the first session of the conference, and there are now 10 women among the I.O.C.'s 113 members. At the last I.O.C. session, in Atlanta in July, the membership resolved that all national Olympic committees and international federations should ensure that 10 percent of their decision-making officials will be women by the end of 2000 and that 20 percent will be by the end of 2005.
The conference attempted to build on that modest and potentially quixotic platform (DeFrantz conceded that the I.O.C. had no current plans for sanctions if nations and federations do not comply by 2000).
"I'm not sure everybody will abide by the 10 percent unless the I.O.C. puts a gun to their head and says 10 percent or else," said the American George Killian, president of basketball's world governing body, FIBA, who was one of more than 30 men to attend the conference.
FIBA exceeded both I.O.C. quotas last month by adding five permanent seats to its 15-member, all-male executive board and stipulating that all five be filled by women. But such moves remain the exception. The ceiling in the American corporate world might be made of glass, but in international sports, the ceiling is sturdier and opaque. Of the 31 permanent Olympic sports federations, only two are headed by women -- badminton and equestrian -- and most have no female officials in high-ranking posts. The same is true of national Olympic committees, and -- unlike Iran -- the United States, Japan, the Netherlands, France, Italy, Germany and Britain have no women in top national Olympic committee positions.
Considering that 34 percent of the 10,750 athletes at the last Olympics were women, females are also grossly underrepresented in elite coaching. Even Sweden, with a government and national Olympic committee made up of about 40 percent women, sent only one female coach to Atlanta. The solution proposed most often in Lausanne is a familiar one: affirmative action.
"The pattern of male domination in sport is institutionalized; it's not going to go away with time alone; we need intervention from the I.O.C.," said Elizabeth Darlison, executive director of the Australia-based WomenSport International.
Much was asked of the I.O.C. in Lausanne: much more than it can realistically deliver, even with millions of dollars from NBC at its disposal. In a sense, the value of this conference might have been more symbolic than tangible. The 17-point resolution agreed to on the final day of the conference was a mild blend of solid planks and platitudes. When paired with the list of recommendations produced earlier by the I.O.C. working group, the result was a timid yet cogent manifesto.
Among the proposals are a call for the I.O.C. to work toward having the same number of Olympic disciplines and events for men and women (men currently hold a significant edge) and a request that the I.O.C. help finance the promotion of women's sport, particularly in developing nations. The delegates at this conference also called for the I.O.C. to discontinue its current gender testing procedures and suggested that cities bidding to host the Olympics be judged on their "demonstrated ability to serve the needs of women and sport."
"I think many of these ideas are doable, and all of them are reasonable," said DeFrantz, who nonetheless cautioned that it takes time for the I.O.C. to effect change. "I ask you not to be patient, but to understand the timetable," she told the delegates.
Of course, the truth, as this conference made clear, is that nearly a century after women first competed in the Olympics in 1900, the timetable depends very much on one's address. In the United States, a women's professional basketball league was launched to considerable fanfare last month. Meanwhile, back in Ramallah, Oreib Araf-Aryan was worried about simply being able to afford a few basketballs.
"Right now, on a scale of one to 10, we are at zero," she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); 

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE; OLYMPIC MUSEUM (LAUSANNE) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (82%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE; OLYMPIC MUSEUM (LAUSANNE) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (82%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; WOMEN; PALESTINIANS OLYMPICS (91%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASKETBALL (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); LAKES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); EATING DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLAREY, CHRISTOPHER TZIPORA LIVNI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



239 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Want Ads

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
HELP WANTED: Secretary of State. Salary $148,400, plus yearly C.O.L. raises. Perks: Three weeks annual vacation, unless Iraq invades Kuwait again in August. Own Boeing 707 jet (1960 vintage). Pilots and crew included. Black limousine, with driver. Oak-paneled office with view of the Potomac. Must enjoy international travel, particularly to Syria. Must enjoy spending time with Senator Jesse Helms. Must be able to brief reporters "on background," "on deep background," "on deepest background," "off the record" and "on the record" all in the same conversation, if not sentence.
The successful applicant for this job will understand just how much the world, and therefore this job, has changed since the end of the cold war. Historically there have been two kinds of foreign affairs: the commercial foreign affairs conducted by the Secretaries of Commerce and Treasury -- leading trade missions and managing the dollar -- and conflict-resolution foreign affairs conducted by the Secretary of State -- negotiating everything from arms control with Russia and China to peace between Arabs and Israelis. 
 The distinction between these two is no longer valid. We have moved from a world dominated by superpowers to a world dominated by both superpowers and "supermarkets." In this new world, the bond and stock markets of Wall Street, Tokyo, Singapore, Shanghai, Paris, London, Frankfurt, Zurich and Hong Kong can be as influential in shaping the behavior of states as the traditional foreign-policy engines -- like border wars, nationalism and ethnic strife.
Nations that want to thrive today must transform their politics, open up their economies and streamline their legal systems along the lines dictated by the supermarkets and their investors. Those countries that get their politics and economics right are rewarded by the supermarkets with investment capital to grow and those that don't are left as road kill on the global highway. This pressure on nations to improve their airports, roads and telecommunications, to upgrade the skills of their workers and to downsize their deficits to attract the supermarkets is recasting the domestic politics, and therefore foreign policies, of one country after another.
The successful Secretary of State will understand that one of his or her biggest challenges will be helping countries like Russia, Mexico, China, Egypt, Turkey, South Africa or even Spain make the transition from where they are now to full-fledged members of this global economy, without destabilizing under the pressure. How well these nations make that transition, and what sort of cultural, economic and ethnic backlashes this transition triggers at home from those who want to resist globalization (labor unions, fundamentalists, traditionalists or others) will affect very much how these nations behave abroad. If the new Secretary of State cannot get under the hood of these countries and help influence their direction inside, he or she will never influence their direction outside.
To do that the next Secretary of State must be able to think in 3-D -- he or she must not only understand the political, military and market pressures being brought to bear on countries, but also be able to manipulate all three to serve U.S. diplomacy. After all, it is impossible to influence China today without mobilizing the resources and pressures of the U.S. business and investment communities, which are pouring billions of dollars into China and now have more leverage there than the State Department. And the only way to advance human rights abroad is by enlisting U.S. corporations. They have to be made to understand that business rights and human rights are just flip sides of the same coin: the rule of law. Ultimately, if there are no rights for Wang Dan there will be none for Ronald McDonald. And no Secretary of State who doesn't understand the politics of oil pipelines will ever be successful in dealing with Turkey, Russia, Iran or Afghanistan. What does Bosnia need today if it is going to be stabilized? Bosnia needs big tanks, big roads and Big Macs. It needs tanks to keep the armies separated, roads to bring the civilians together and McDonald's -- that is economic magnets -- to induce people to come down those roads.
The next Secretary of State has to be as comfortable shuttling inside countries as between them, as comfortable in a taxi as on an airplane, as skillful at manipulating the balance of power as the balance of briefcases. To apply call (202) 456-1414. Ask for Bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SYRIA (90%); EGYPT (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: ZURICH (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT BOEING CO (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SYRIA (90%); EGYPT (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); FRANCE (77%); EAST CHINA (79%); ZURICH (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COLD WAR (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



240 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Danger Zones

 BODY:
As President Clinton assembles a new Cabinet and looks ahead to his second term, he has a rare opportunity to review America's interests abroad. The relative tranquillity of recent years has obscured the real risk that one or more countries vital to American security could quickly slip into turmoil. It does not take a seasoned diplomat to see the high danger zones. The potential for long-term instability is considerable in Russia and China. Collapse of the Middle East peace effort would have wrenching consequences, including the prospect of renewed armed conflict. Iraq remains unpredictable. Turkey, pivotal to American interests in the Persian Gulf region, faces powerful internal divisions. 
 But the greatest threats to American interests could come from three other countries. Severe turbulence within Saudi Arabia or Mexico would swiftly undermine the economic security of the United States. A convulsion in North Korea might lead to a military confrontation on the Korean Peninsula that directly involves American troops.
To head off trouble in these countries, Washington should vigorously press their leaders to make internal reforms and move toward greater political pluralism. Holding Saudi Arabia and Mexico in a tight, uncritical embrace, or cutting off contact with North Korea, is exactly the wrong approach.
Recent Administrations had a bad habit of underestimating the risk of foreign upheaval, particularly when allies were involved. The failure of American foreign policy in Iran, where Washington tied itself to the corrupt and dying regime of the Shah, must not be repeated in Saudi Arabia.
The Saudi monarchy is formidable and resilient. For decades it has been a reliable supplier of oil to the West and a moderating influence on oil prices. It was America's partner in the Persian Gulf war and serves as the anchor of American influence and military strategy in the region.
But Saudi Arabia is under increasing stress. Disillusionment with the monarchy is growing as economic hardships hit an expanding population and Islamic preachers complain about excessive reliance on outsiders, especially the United States. Home-grown terrorism is developing. King Fahd is ill and the royal family is divided over succession.
There may be no serious threat to the monarchy for years. But President Clinton should not bet American prosperity on that hope. As soon as a new Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense are in place, Mr. Clinton should conduct an unsparing review of America's relations with Saudi Arabia.
Mexico is a political and economic crisis waiting to happen. Decades of one-party autocracy have stunted its politics. Its economy is still staggering under the consequences of the artificial prosperity choreographed by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and the devastating devaluation and austerity measures that followed it. President Ernesto Zedillo's reforms are welcome but belated.
With living standards eroding and crime soaring, and armed resistance to the Government in several states, Mexico is a combustible country of 92 million people next door to the United States. It would not take long for an economic or political calamity there to sting American financial markets and propel a tide of illegal immigrants northward.
The danger on the Korean Peninsula is acute. The cruel and erratic dictatorship of Kim Il Sung, who died two years ago, has been followed by famine and unclear lines of authority under his son, Kim Jong Il. Tensions between North and South Korea remain high, leaving Seoul so suspicious of its neighbor that it is reluctant to cooperate with Washington in preventing an implosion of the northern regime. But it is imperative to bring the North peacefully out of its long isolation. As long as North Korea is ostracized, hungry and heavily armed, it is a serious threat to stability in Asia.
Developing realistic and unflinching policies toward these nations will require both the sustained attention of Mr. Clinton and his new team of advisers and the support of Congress. Most of all, it depends on America's political leaders' recognizing that complacency in the handling of volatile and vital foreign countries invites misfortune.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GULF STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (58%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; MEXICO; NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GULF STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); DEVALUATION (60%); TERRORISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



241 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: French-American Ties Mostly Untied, for Now

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The French mood these days is a sour one, and French-American relations, never better only six months ago, have soured with it.
Things were threatening to get so far out of hand that President Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, slipped into Paris on Nov. 1 for unpublicized talks with President Jacques Chirac and other officials to try to limit the damage. 
 Secretary of State Warren Christopher will continue the discussions Wednesday and Thursday during an international meeting here on aid to Bosnia. He is among the American officials said to be most acutely annoyed by recent French sallies into the Middle East and sarcasm about his trip through Africa last month.
The biggest dispute between the allies, but hardly the only one, centers on a French demand that a European officer take over a NATO military command that has always been held by an American admiral before France will rejoin NATO as a full partner.
French officials say that Mr. Chirac does not want a "showdown" with Mr. Clinton and that at worst, France would continue to stay out of the NATO military structures it left 30 years ago.
Mr. Chirac tried to get things off to a fresh start Wednesday with an effusive message and a telephone call congratulating Mr. Clinton on his re-election. "Jacques Chirac is a friend of the United States," one French official said. "His ambition is to build Europe with the United States, not against it."
But the potential for friction, a constant of French-American relations since the days of de Gaulle, remains.
Alain Lamassoure, the French Government spokesman, said this, for example, about Mr. Clinton's victory: "It makes progress toward European unity more necessary than ever, so as not to leave American power alone like some kind of gendarme or judge over the affairs of the world."
With French unemployment at 12.6 percent, the highest since World War II, and with Mr. Chirac's popularity rating barely over 30 percent, he and his even less popular Government have been seeking a higher profile in foreign affairs since last spring.
"We've been through this many times before," an American official in Washington said. "Whenever the French are insecure, they take it out on us, and they have a lot to be worried about these days."
French officials have reacted to Washington's criticism on the NATO issue by conciliation in other areas.
The French want significant American participation, for example, in the international force of 4,000 to 6,000 soldiers that they want to send to Zaire's border with Rwanda and Burundi to help more than a million refugees. They are willing to make important concessions to get that participation.
Authoritative officials said this week that if the United States insisted on commanding the whole operation before it would send in ground troops, that would be all right with France. American officials, regarding the offer as something of a poisoned chalice, pointed out that the reason for it might be Rwanda's vehement objection to any French military role in the region.
But France's emollients toward the United States contrasted markedly with its criticism of Mr. Christopher's attempt to rally support for an American-sponsored African intervention force during his trip to Africa last month. That trip was viewed here as an unwelcome intrusion onto traditional French turf.
Mr. Christopher was also annoyed during a diplomatic shuttle mission to the Middle East in April that the French had insisted on sending Foreign Minister Herve de Charette to the region at the same time.
White House and State Department officials feared interference with American mediation efforts between Israel and the Palestinians when Mr. Chirac set off on his own trip through the region last month.
He clashed with Israeli security officials during a visit to Arab East Jerusalem but carefully urged all the officials he saw, Arab and Israeli, to continue to talk with one another. French and American officials here agree that Mr. Chirac never challenged the position of the United States as the mediator most trusted by all the disputants.
He also sent a long letter to Mr. Clinton after the trip explaining what he had tried to achieve and got an answer thanking him for the constructive European involvement, according to French officials.
They added that despite frequent American criticism of the European contacts with Iran, the American mediator, Dennis Ross, had asked them recently to pass on a warning against terrorist attacks in Israel to the French contacts in Iran and Syria. They were in a position to do so within hours, the officials said.
France will remain critical of recent American laws aimed at punishing European companies that do business with Iran and use expropriated property in Cuba, French officials say. And Mr. Chirac has never concealed his disagreement with American opposition to re-electing the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
The greatest potential lost opportunity in the French-American relationship, however, is the French military reintegration into NATO, which Mr. Chirac announced a year ago.
In August he wrote to Mr. Clinton asking that the United States surrender an important NATO command, Allied Forces Southern Europe in Naples, Italy, whose main muscle is supplied by the United States Sixth Fleet. He asked that French and other European officers take turns running it.
Germany and Italy have backed the French, but the United States has ruled out giving up the command. If Washington does not yield, French officials say, France will not move back into the military structure.
"If they don't want to come in then, that's fine with us," said an American diplomat in another European capital. "If the French think we will give in on this, they're crazy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); REFUGEES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



242 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Chilling Change in the Contraband Being Seized at Borders

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., Nov. 7

 BODY:
Since this summer, a new contraband has been running second only to marijuana in the Customs seizures made here on the Mexican border. It is more profitable than cocaine by some estimates, believed to be bigger business these days than gun-running, and illegal to import for a futuristic reason: it harms the planet.
It is that old staple on car-repair shop shelves, Freon. And it is taking on a sinister new role as the contraband of tomorrow. 
 Virtually all production and importation of the ozone-destroying refrigerant has been banned in the United States since January, but the continued demand for it among American owners of more than 80 million older cars whose air conditioners use it has sent black-market prices spiraling, Federal officials say.
Concerned that market forces will undermine a landmark global agreement to stem the use of ozone-eaters, those same Federal officials are waging a "war on Freon" with some of the same seriousness as the war on drugs.
In recent months, they have been training hundreds of border inspectors and prosecutors to crack down on the thousands of tons of Freon that enter the country illegally each year and add a bit more to the holes in the protective ozone over the Earth's poles.
Beginning with a Miami-based task force known as "Operation Cool Breeze" nearly two years ago, tough-on-Freon Federal prosecutors have won at least 18 convictions of major smugglers, accompanied by millions of dollars in penalties and sentences of up to 57 months for the biggest violators. A Freon case brought the first-ever extradition for an environmental crime, officials said, and the first United States felony convictions based on violations of the Federal Clean Air Act amendments on ozone-depleting gases.
Prosecutors and inspectors believe they have deterred some of the larger shipments of Freon, which is the commonly used Du Pont brand name for a coolant belonging to the class of chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons, or CFC's.
But not the smaller ones, and not for long.
"The profits are tremendous -- people pick up a 12-ounce container in Mexico for $2 and sell it here for $23," said Steve Solow, assistant chief of the environmental crime section of the Justice Department. "And we anticipate there will be another surge in attempts to smuggle in large quantities; that's why the department has developed a national enforcement initiative."
The street price for a 30-pound cylinder of Freon has more than doubled since last year to well over $500, said Thomas A. Watts-Fitzgerald, the United States Attorney who has spearheaded Operation Cool Breeze.
He calculates that buying cocaine, converting it to crack and selling it brings a 4-to-1 profit ratio; buying a canister of Freon in another country for $42 and selling it here for $550 produces a 13-to-1 profit ratio.
"It doesn't take a math genius," he said. "It's basic economics."
A typical air conditioner on a car built before 1993 that uses Freon takes two to three pounds of the odorless compound. It is legal to sell and use existing stashes of Freon, but they are expected to run out in two years.
The most recent cause for worry, Federal officials say, is indications that serious Freon smugglers have taken to crossing the loose United States border with Canada.
"We're beginning to see some instances of smuggling routes that go back to the days of Prohibition, using islands in the Great Lakes," said Michael Penders, special counsel to the director of criminal enforcement at the Environmental Protection Agency.
But the authorities are also concerned about an increase in the small-scale smuggling most common here on the California-Mexican border, where Customs officials confiscate six or seven illegal loads of Freon canisters a week, and often the cars of the smugglers as well.
Gregory Schulte, a Customs investigator, said that since this summer, "rat-packers" -- small-scale smugglers -- have been caught with 5,320 pounds of Freon in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
Since Freon is still legal to manufacture and export in Mexico, "What we're seeing here is that you could almost drive around aimlessly there and find some, throw it in the trunk and hope you get lucky," Mr. Schulte said.
The Government is taking Freon smuggling with such gravity in part because it undermines the 1987 agreement known as the Montreal Protocol, in which more than 140 countries agreed to curb ozone-depleting gases.
The ozone layer serves to veil the planet from ultra-violet radiation, which is harmful to plants and animals and has been shown to cause skin cancer, cataracts and other damage in humans. Government scientists have reported worsening ozone depletion in recent years over both poles.
Because the exact quantities of smuggled Freon are not known and the science is sketchy, it is unclear exactly how much the illicit chemical could delay the healing of the ozone holes, which is expected to take decades even with full compliance with the Montreal plan.
If estimates by a private group called Ozone Action that about 10,000 tons of CFC's are smuggled in per year are correct, then the smuggled Freon's impact is likely less than that of the thousands of tons still being produced and consumed each year in India, the former Soviet Union and elsewhere.
The Montreal agreement lets developing countries continue producing CFC's 10 years longer than industrialized ones, which had to stop last year.
In addition, under a loophole in the agreement, hundreds of tons of Freon are still being produced for export in the United States as well this year.
But even a small impact is too big, said John Passacantando, executive director of Ozone Action. "We're already in a danger zone," he said. "We're already drunk and shouldn't be driving that car, and another beer means just that much longer that you shouldn't be driving."
Ozone Action plans to issue a sequel to last year's report on Nov. 19 identifying Mexico as a major source of illegal CFC's entering the United States, Mr. Passacantando said. And the Montreal signatories are expected to meet this month to decide how to stop the export from one country to another.
The planetary damage that the ozone-depleting gases wreak makes the Freon smugglers, in the eyes of some, the classic villains of the post-Cold-War world, polluters for profit who value money in their pocket over the health of the Earth.
"The damage that can be imposed by UVBV" -- the harmful radiation that ozone blocks -- "goes down to the genetic level," Mr. Watts-Fitzgerald said. "It literally has the capacity to affect life on Earth as we know it," but "We have a hereditary inability to take the long view on some things as opposed to the short economic view."
Mr. Watts-Fitzgerald helped convict several Freon smugglers over the last two years who brought in hundreds of tons of the compound. Now, he and others said, would-be big shippers seem to be deterred, in part because the method most of them used -- pretending the Freon was only passing through the United States in order to avoid stiff excise taxes -- will no longer pass muster now that the full ban is in place.
But all predicted that Freon smuggling, large and small, will continue until the last old-car owners cough up the cash -- more than $100 and sometimes several hundred dollars -- to convert their cars to less-polluting air conditioner coolants. Or until Freon gets so expensive and its replacements so cheap that it is foolish not to convert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); EARTH (72%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT FIBERS (53%); DU PONT PHOTOMASKS (53%); DU PONT CHEMICALS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EARTH (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; SMUGGLING; FREON; OZONE; AIR CONDITIONING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); OZONE DEPLETION (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); CANNABIS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FLUORINE (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AIR QUALITY (75%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXTRADITION (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); CHLORINE (66%); FELONIES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY JOHN MAJOR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



243 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: At College, Many Learn How to Plunge Into Debt

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md.

 BODY:
Melissa Allen, a psychology major at the University of Maryland, cannot count on her parents for help with tuition. But rather than go deeply in debt with student loans, she is giving up much of the fun of college life by racing through in three years while working 40 hours a week at three jobs.
"I don't want to get out of here with a whole lot of debt," Ms. Allen said recently, on a break from one of her jobs. 
 Even so, she has fallen into a credit trap. After charging part of this semester's tuition on her MasterCard, she cannot pay more than the monthly minimum. At 17 percent interest, she said, the balance is "never going down."
But while Ms. Allen is at least worried about being in debt -- and has made sacrifices to avoid it -- college officials say that for too many students, the certainty of owing large loans after graduation is combining with banks' marketing of credit cards to them to provoke another response: spend now, worry later.
 More than any generation before, this one is weighed down by debt -- and increasingly debt of its own making. And sympathy is short for those whose unchecked consumerism brings them to financial crisis before they are out of college.
A Smith College administrator, Myra Smith, said of students who come to the financial aid office saying they cannot pay their bill, "I suspect part of the reason they have trouble paying Smith is because they are paying somebody else." If their requests for more aid are not firmly denied, she said, "then we're financing their life style."
Financial aid officers say a growing number of young men and women are leaving college with large debts and ruined credit ratings because of credit cards. Not thinking of a college loan as real debt until after graduation, when repayment begins, is one thing, the aid officers said, but students learn too late that using credit cards like cash, rather than regarding them as high-interest loans due now, is quite another.
"I was forewarned to get just one credit card and not go crazy, but I did go crazy," said Melissa Raaff, who ruined her credit by charging $5,000 on credit cards while a sociology major at the University of California at Santa Barbara. "I didn't worry about working because I thought, 'Oh, I'll just put it on my credit card.' It's unfortunate that it affects your credit in the long run."
Spurred by Federal requirements, colleges routinely conduct advisory sessions with new students getting financial aid and interviews with those about to graduate or leave college. But the warnings to freshmen, at least, often fall on deaf ears.
"I don't think we make a big impression," said Barbara Tornow, Boston University's executive director of financial aid, who was instrumental in persuading her alma mater, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, not to offer a credit card. "I think we need to have more responsibility for warning students about getting in over their head."
On some campuses, the credit cards available to students include cards sponsored by the college or university, and that may explain part of the students' lack of concern about borrowing.
Banks are bombarding college students with credit-card offers, with minimum requirements, and sometimes send them unsolicited cards. Even some high school seniors get repeated solicitations.
There is no question that many students cannot avoid debt these days. Tuition increases are still outpacing inflation, while colleges are allocating a greater share of financial aid packages to loans. Since 1993, student borrowing has almost doubled, from $18 billion then to $33 billion in 1996, according to the Department of Education.
Most of this is under the widely used student Federal aid plan, the Stafford program, under which student loans from private institutions are guaranteed and subsidized by the Government. This year the average Stafford loan balance for students leaving four-year colleges jumped 15 percent from the 1995 average to $10,146, according to USA Group Loan Services, an organization that administers a $10 billion educational portfolio.
Frederic W. Gilbert, the USA Group's president, said, "Student debt has grown because of the rising cost of attending college, higher loan limits, expanded eligibility and the growing proportion of Federal student aid offered in the form of loans rather than grants."
Yet the number of students working while in college actually appears to be declining, said Ted Freeman, president of the Boston-based Education Resources Institute. And the more serious problem for students is credit-card obligations, which, unlike student loans, cannot be deferred.
The stakes are high for the banks: students represent the only large group of uncommitted consumers, and studies show that brand loyalty won early is often won for life.
Borrowing limits on student credit cards start low, typically at $400 or $500, but issuers quickly raise them as a card is used. While some cards for students require a parent to cosign, many do not.
Beth Kobliner, author of the self-help book, "Get a Financial Life," said she not only didn't have a credit card when she graduated from college 10 years ago, she could not qualify for one for some time afterward. "Today it's just entirely different," she said, not only in the numbers of young card holders but in their attitude toward using the cards. On promotion trips, she is repeatedly reminded that many regard their credit card limit more like a balance to be drawn against than a loan that must be repaid.
Federal law limits the information that issuers can elicit from credit card holders, so there is a scarcity of data for specific age groups. A survey of college students by Tahira K. Hira, a professor of family finance at Iowa State University, found that 76 percent held three or more credit cards and that 40 percent -- twice the rate of the population at large -- had six or more.
Researchers say young people are also more likely than older people to be delinquent on loans, even if the amounts they borrow are often less than those of older card holders. How many young people actually get over their heads in credit-card debt cannot be accurately gauged because parents often come to the rescue.
Greg Mathis, a sophomore art major at California State University, Los Angeles, is not worried about the $3,500 a year he is borrowing for college, but he has come to see his three credit cards as "dangerous."
Even working part time as a teacher's aide for $9 an hour, he said he cannot pay more than the monthly minimum on the $1,400 he has charged for clothes, shoes and books.
In discussing personal finance in a senior-class project, Professor Hira found that even many of her brightest students had little knowledge of the subject. "I was just amazed at the ignorance," she said.
Some credit-card issuers, under pressure from consumer groups, are trying to educate the public about personal finance. MasterCard International, for example, offers a series of brochures under a program called "Spend Wisely, Pay Wisely," and also conducts college seminars on credit-card use.
Consumer advocates, however, belittle these efforts. "Their aggressive marketing overwhelms any consumer education," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America.
Jennifer Benjamin, 26, said of her circle of friends at the University of Massachusetts, where she ruined her credit rating: "We all probably spent more than we earned. It wasn't real money. It was play money."
Now a graduate student at Boston University, Ms. Benjamin restricts herself to what she calls "a loser's card": a credit card that allows her to charge no more than the balance in her savings account.
Even so, she uses it frequently. "I paid for something with cash the other night," she said, "and my boyfriend said, 'What's that?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melissa Allen, at one of her three jobs, has tried to avoid loans but charged part of her tuition at the University of Maryland. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM SMITH COLLEGES (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; CREDIT COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MELISSA ALLEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



244 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Guam, a Spoil of War, Seeks More Autonomy

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: GUAM

 BODY:
The beaches on this jewel of a Pacific island are like powdered milk, but it is American milk, and the people here are American citizens who every four years are the first ones to go to the polls to cast ballots in the Presidential election.
Yet while a tropical location on the edge of Asia guarantees coral and coconut palms, as well as an Election Day that begins 15 hours before New York's, it also means that votes cast here for President do not count. Here in America's military outpost in the Pacific, the vote for President is simply an extra question on the local ballot. It is a straw poll as ineffectual as any in a school classroom. 
 "We are a colony, and we have to break out of that," said the locally elected Governor, Carl T. C. Gutierrez. "This goes against the grain of what America was founded on."
Mr. Gutierrez and a broad range of other local officials are demanding a new deal from Washington, warning that unless the Federal Government gives local people additional political rights it will no longer be able to count on using the island as its garrison in the Pacific.
It is not clear how seriously one should take that warning, for there is no specific threat to back it up. But there is no question that Guam is a strategic and valuable chunk of real estate. It is America's westernmost possession, due south of parts of Japan, making it an ideal base from which to project military force in Asia and beyond.
When the United States bombed Iraq in early September, the two B-52 bombers flew from Guam, saving the Pentagon from seeking permission from another country. Then when the United States evacuated 2,700 Kurdish refugees from Iraq beginning in September, they were flown to Guam, where they are being processed for resettlement elsewhere.
The military owns almost one-third of Guam, a banana-shaped island about 30 miles long. But the economy depends less on the military than on the throngs of Japanese tourists who fill the beach resorts.
While the Pentagon and other Federal agencies are trying to block Guam's demands for greater autonomy, people on the island are fighting back by asking harsh questions rooted in the American ideals that are taught in Guam schools.
Those are questions about American values, about whether the United States is willing to practice at home the anticolonial and democratic message that it preaches abroad. By quoting from the Declaration of Independence and appealing to principles of self-determination, people on Guam seek to embarrass Americans into yielding greater autonomy.
"The relationship of Guam to the States is very similar to the relationship of the 13 colonies to King George," Tyrone J. Taitano, director of policy development in the governor's office, said with a gleam in his eye. "That's very disturbing to us."
American diplomats have been embarrassed that Guam is still one of a dozen colonies on a list of colonies kept by the United Nations, and the United States last month criticized the United Nations for the way it applied the concept of decolonization to American territories. Governor Gutierrez promptly protested to American officials and asked for help in "eradicating colonialism in Guam."
A majority of the 145,000 residents are not seeking independence, for they are fiercely patriotic Americans who sign up for military duty in greater proportions than from any state. Many in Guam would like statehood, although they acknowledge that is impossible for now.
So people in Guam are asking for the island to be made a commonwealth, under a proposal drafted by local officials and approved by voters in the 1980's. The proposal has largely gathered dust in Washington, resisted by the Pentagon and other Federal agencies that raise constitutional objections and warn that greater local authority would impair the military's ability to react in a crisis.
Commonwealth status still would not allow people in Guam to vote in Presidential elections or to have their own voting Congressman, for both would require statehood or a constitutional amendment. But the plan would give the local government more authority to rule the island and control local land.
America obtained Guam as a spoil of war after the Spanish-American War of 1898. Technically, Guam is owned by the United States, but is not a part of it. That makes it American soil. But in a sense that rankles many people on the island.
"It's exactly the same relationship someone has with a car or a house," said a senator in the local legislature, Mark Forbes. "It's property rights." Mr. Forbes is a Republican, and the Governor is a Democrat. But local officials in both parties broadly agree in their yearning for greater self-determination.
A bit fewer than half the inhabitants of Guam are Chamorros, descendants of the original inhabitants. But the island feels like America, with its Kmart and traffic-clogged highways and Colonel Sanders statues, all washed by a hot sun and tropical showers.
To be sure, Guam is just one of a handful of American territories that fall short of statehood. Puerto Rico is the best known. There are also the Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands, all held under separate arrangements.
"America is going to be the last colonial power in the world, and in 1776 it was the first to fight against colonialism," said Richard H. J. Wyttenbach-Santos, a former Navy officer who is a scholar at the University of Guam.
Residents are particularly indignant over how military officials hold on to vast tracts or resist efforts to develop private property. Pedro Artero stood the other day on just such a spot, a gorgeous beach that he owns in northern Guam, as he complained that the military authorities would not let him build a hotel.
"Our family owns this, but we can't do anything with it," Mr. Artero said as a half-dozen relatives nodded. "Uncle Sam's holding us back."
The commander of United States Naval Forces in the region, Rear Adm. David L. Brewer 3d, disputed the idea that the military was ruling in a high-handed way, noting that the armed forces were indeed giving up some land.
"Our relationship with the Government of Guam is one of equal partners," Admiral Brewer said. "It's definitely not colonial."
Some residents of Guam agree. When eight University of Guam students sat around a table to talk about the island's status, most grumbled about unequal treatment. But one, Jorgi Strandhagen, tossed her head and noted that Guam had done much better economically than other Pacific islands that were independent.
"I don't feel like a second-class citizen," Ms. Strandhagen said. "I think the Federal Government has been pretty good to us."
Although people in Guam pay the same Federal taxes that they would if they lived in a state, the money is all used in Guam. And it is supplemented by hundreds of millions in subsidies from Washington.
"Is this a colony?" asked one official who insisted on anonymity partly because his views are unpopular. "Well, it depends on your definition of a colony. Historically, mother countries have milked colonies of resources, and that's not the case here."
Most people on Guam apparently acknowledge that they enjoy some advantages. But they say that what they are asking for is not subsidies, but rather respect and political and civil rights.
"The Chamorros say it's like slavery," Mr. Wyttenbach-Santos said. "You have the best slave owner in the world, and he's not going to break up your family. But you're still owned by someone else."
Some Guam officials are optimistic that Mr. Clinton will push for adoption of a commonwealth act for Guam, and people here this year raised more than $600,000 for the Democratic National Committee and for his re-election. There are discussions with the White House to have Mr. Clinton, perhaps, stop off in Guam this month on his way to or from the meeting of Asia-Pacific leaders in the Philippines.
Governor Gutierrez said when he discussed Guam with Mr. Clinton this year, he received a sympathetic hearing. "It hit the right buttons for him to know that we are disenfranchised," Mr. Gutierrez said, "and that American democracy is not practiced out here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese tourists throng the beaches on Guam, displacing the military as the leading industry. Some residents are demanding greater autonomy. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)
 
Map of Pacific Ocean showing the location of Guam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GUAM (98%); ASIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUAM; UNITED STATES (99%); GUAM (98%); ASIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS MILK (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BEACHES (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BALLOTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY BASES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RESORTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REFUGEES (64%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



245 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: California Town Hopes Eye-Catching Murals Will Put It on Map

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: TWENTYNINE PALMS, Calif.

 BODY:
This tumbleweed town that took its name from an act of nature has come up with a plan to revitalize itself with man-made creations. City leaders want to make Twentynine Palms the "Mural Capital of America."
On the side of the Break and Run Billiards parlor, an artist is painting the city's eighth mural, this one commemorating two archeologists who searched the arid dunes and desolate canyons near here for Indian artifacts in the 1920's, about the time this place got its start around an oasis with 29 palms. The mural's lush acrylic flourishes of a shirt in periwinkle blue and a face in deep violet seem like enormous cactus flowers against the sun-burnt sagebrush of the Morongo Valley. 
 It is scene that is difficult to miss in a passing car. It is so eye-catching, in fact, that residents recently put up bleachers nearby so they could comfortably gaze at the work in progress. And that is the point.
Tourists have had little reason to stop here, other than for gas. But by creating an outdoor art gallery, residents hope to transform this economically suffering city of 15,000 people into the Paris of the Mojave Desert.
"We're not a gritty blur from a car window anymore," said Mary Jane Binge, one of the mural organizers. "There isn't a day that goes by when you don't see people taking pictures of our murals."
The source of life for Twentynine Palms, halfway between Los Angeles and the Arizona border, is the nearby Twentynine Palms Marine Base, a desert training ground for 25,000 marines. During the gulf war, many of the troops there were sent to the Middle East, which compounded the recession of the early 1990's and bankrupted many businesses here.
But residents believe they have found the answer to their problem in verdant British Columbia. When Beth Wiederhold was president of the Twentynine Palms Action Council, a revitalization group, she saw an article in the Smithsonian magazine about the once-depressed Canadian logging town of Chemainus, which lost its sawmill, but later became a popular tourist destination after covering building walls with murals.
"I saw similarities in how Chemainus and Twentynine Palms looked, except for the palm trees," Ms. Weiderhold said, who later visited Chemainus to get a more detailed view of its 32 murals.
Soon afterward, city leaders rallied for their own mural project in Twentynine Palms to attract some of the 1.5 million annual visitors to Joshua Tree National Park, four miles to the north. After some fund raising, the first mural was painted on the Plaza Furniture store in 1994.
Muralists from around the country have been selected, based on their work and proposals. The murals cost about $15,000 each and take as long as two months to complete. They focus on the history of this city started by miners and ranchers.
On a wall of Twentynine Palms Liquors, Cahuilla Indians gather around the tree-lined Oasis of Mara (it now has fewer than 29 palms), weaving baskets near their huts. At Twentynine Palms Gemcrafts, "The Flying Constable," the Mojave's first sheriff, dips his airplane's wing at a waving woman while patrolling the scrub.
The paintings have turned some previously art-apathetic merchants into connoisseurs of sorts. Victor Hull, owner of the Twentynine Palms Thrift store, stood proudly in front of his shop recently and disclosed some little-known, "inside" features in the mining scene, "Dirty Sock Camp."
"You see that guy there," he said pointing to a grizzled prospector. "That's the face of the artist's father-in-law."
Downtown, the center of the mile-long mural district, has recently become a popular site for new businesses like the Finicky Coyote cafe. Jeff Bowers, the owner, said the murals and potential out-of-town customers prompted him to open up shop in a boarded-up building. In a hopeful sign, he said, tourists sometimes drop by to eat.
"When you talk to them, they ask for mural information," Mr. Bowers said. "I think the plan is working."
But other merchants, though keen on art, said the murals had had no effect on their balance sheets. The only really negative view voiced was by a man in a bar who complained about the flood of "flatlanders" invading his tranquil desert.
For the time being, Twentynine Palms is planning to raise money for three murals a year from donations and by selling $125 limited edition prints of the murals it already has. The immediate goal is to surpass the number of murals in Lompoc, 60 miles north of Santa Barbara, which Twentynine Palms officials learned has 23 outdoor wall paintings. But that revelation, plus the fact that Los Angeles has more than 1,000 murals, has not dimmed the enthusiasm of mural advocates here.
Larry Briggs, the current president of the Twentynine Palms Action Council, said of the Lompoc paintings: 'I've checked out the competition and there is no competition. They have a hodgepodge of artists and styles and methods and its not as quality art work and wall preparation as our work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Twentynine Palms, Calif., wants to become the "Mural Capital of America." "Neighbors in Nature," left, is a reproduction of a photograph of nearby Joshua Tree National Monument. A Los Angeles artist, Richard Wyatt, right, has painted a mural -- one of eight in the town -- of Campbell family members who were among the early settlers of Twentynine Palms. (Photographs by Davis Barber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CANADA (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TWENTYNINE PALMS ACTION COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTYNINE PALMS ACTION COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TWENTYNINE PALMS (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CANADA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURALS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS PAINTING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); DESERTS (89%); CITIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); TOURISM (68%); DESERT STORM (68%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



246 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Taking Stock, but No Guff, Mandela Talks of Democracy

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 9

 BODY:
It is the midpoint of Nelson Mandela's five-year term as South Africa's first democratically elected President, and he settled into a chair in his living room ready to face reporters. It was 7 A.M. He is still an early riser.
"I'm going to kick off, if I may," said one reporter. 
 "As long as you don't kick me," warned Mr. Mandela.
His tone was only half-joking. Mr. Mandela was clearly ready to cross swords.
At 78, he is recovering from a knee operation and walks with difficulty. His hands and ankles look swollen. Photographers cannot use a flash because it bothers his eyes, which were injured by dust during years of breaking rocks in prison.
But Mr. Mandela is as regal as anyone who rose from Xhosa prince to political prisoner to state president can be -- and if he is a bit irritable, he perhaps has reason to be. It's not the aches and pains of age that bother him, but the nagging criticism of his young Government that he hears constantly at home and that filters overseas, discouraging investors and tourists.
The euphoria of the peaceful transition from white supremacist government has worn off, and South Africans are beginning to carp, like citizens of any other democracy.
Whites, fearful of crime and affirmative action, are continuing to flee the country. Blacks, disappointed that few new jobs have appeared and that squatter camps still spread for miles, are showing some signs of disenchantment with Mr. Mandela's African National Congress party. A recent poll showed that its support had dropped to 53 percent in July from 66 percent in 1994.
Everyone worries about the fall of the rand, charges of petty corruption, squabbling among African National Congress officials and whether the new Government has enough competent civil servants.
Mr. Mandela finds these complaints unfair. In an hourlong interview on Friday, he talked of success "beyond our wildest expectations" in creating a South Africa based on democratic principles and an array of checks and balances.
Last year, he said, even he was overruled on a voter registration issue by the country's Constitutional Court.
"What can be more democratic than that?" he asked.
On occasion, his temper flared. Responding to a question citing black critics who weren't even in the room, he vehemently defended the contributions of whites, construing the critics narrowly to be senior black editors, whose "ignorance" he attacked.
Reaching for a folder full of statistics, Mr. Mandela -- a man revered as a saint and feted all over the world as a statesman -- for once sounded less like Gandhi and more like an American Congressman boasting of what he has done for his district.
He told of the bacon his administration had brought home, beginning with the respectable 3.5 percent economic growth rate achieved last year.
"As far as water is concerned," he continued, "700 water supply projects are under way, which will give 6.4 million people access to water. Already 600,000 people have been supplied with water. This is in rural areas where people have never had clean tap water.
"On health, we say, over 5.5 million schoolchildren in poor areas are benefiting from the primary school nutrition program. Four hundred new health clinics have been completed since after 1994.
"Then we deal with housing and we say by the end of the year, 500,000 subsidies will have been released. At the moment 170,000 houses are in production.
"And electrification: in the last four months alone, 400,000 homes have been hooked up."
Lacking in the statistics are facts that might shade these victories. There is no mention that the school feeding program has been marred by corruption or that the housing starts fall far short of the promises made in the administration's heady early days.
But Mr. Mandela did acknowledge some problems, most notably the country's continuing difficulty remaking its police force. Under apartheid, the force was largely used to protect whites, contain riots and spy on political activists, or torture and murder them.
Now it is being asked to protect and serve the populace -- but it has little experience in fighting crime and precious little understanding of individual rights. It is also bedeviled by corrupt officers. "There are rogue elements, some of them in key positions," Mr. Mandela said, "and while they are a tiny minority, they are doing a great deal of harm."
But he had statistics on this subject as well. He pointed out that in the province of KwaZulu/Natal, no fewer than 278 police officers had been arrested on such charges as corruption, murder, robbery and thievery since 1994. In the province of Gauteng, which includes Johannesburg, he said that the state was investigating 8,300 cases against police officers and that 434 officers had been arrested.
"We have done that in almost all the provinces," Mr. Mandela said. "We are getting on top of that."
His administration has tangled openly with the country's news organizations, attributing negative perceptions to bad local journalism. Asked about criticism that he spends too much time worrying about the concerns of whites, Mr. Mandela erupted. Such remarks, he said, come from "superficial" senior black journalists who do not appreciate that white skills and money are part of the country's strength.
"They assume," he said, "that we have defeated whites on a battlefield and that the whites are now lying on the floor helpless and begging for mercy and that we can impose conditions on them."
That is hardly true, he continued, and it is best to keep whites from joining the right. In addition, he said, large white-controlled companies are helping the country's transformation, sometimes building schools and health clinics simply because he asks them to.
His priorities for the coming year include stabilizing the rand, and he said he might be willing, for the first time, to borrow from the International Monetary Fund to do that. But he said he hoped that money raised by selling state assets like radio stations and part of the telephone company would obviate the need for that.
Asked about possible roles for the nation's strong and disciplined army in policing African conflicts, he expressed reluctance to get involved, because of South Africa's history of destabilizing its neighbors. He said he might let troops join a mission organized by the United Nations or the Organization of African Unity. But he took a dim view of anyone who expected him to solve the continent's problems.
"If I have any moral authority -- and I say 'if' -- moral authority doesn't solve world problems."
As he learned after criticizing President Sani Abacha of Nigeria, moral authority doesn't change policies. "They're changed by those countries who trade with the country, such as the United States, which imports 52 percent of Nigeria's oil."
Mr. Mandela deflected several questions during the interview, including one about the certainty that Deputy President Thabo Mbeki will succeed him and one about whether he believed former President F. W. de Klerk had directly ordered atrocities against blacks.
"I'd like to avoid that if you don't mind," Mr. Mandela said, leaving little room for appeal.
He denied recent speculation that he would step down before the end of 1999, saying only that he would cede his post as party president next year to open the field to younger people, "who are really more energetic, more assertive and who are deep thinkers with better vision." It has been widely acknowledged by African National Congress officials that Mr. Mbeki, 54, will be elected to the post.
"In any case," Mr. Mandela said with a grin, "a leader who doesn't know when to step down will really come to grief, because he may be humiliated. I must step down whilst there are one or two people who admire me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the midpoint of President Nelson Mandela's term, the euphoria of making history has yielded to the hard work of remaking a country. (Graeme Williams for The New York Times) (pg. 1); President Nelson Mandela of South Africa, who is now finding himself the target of criticism, at his home in a suburb of Johannesburg. (Graeme Williams for The New York Times) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE; MANDELA, NELSON R (PRES) NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



247 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: In Vermont, Milkmen Are Leaving The Scene

BYLINE: By SALLY JOHNSON 

DATELINE: WEYBRIDGE, Vt., Nov. 9

 BODY:
In his day, Harold Bigelow kept the keys to the town. Six days a week for 25 years, he delivered Monument Farms milk to as many as 400 homes in Weybridge, Middlebury and Cornwall, a sizable portion of the population at the time. And always he carried a large ring loaded with house keys.
"His wad of keys must have been this big," said Monument Farms' Stephen James, forming his hands into a ball the size of a grapefruit. "Harold's customers trusted him. He'd water their plants when they were away, do all sorts of things for them. And believe me, at Christmastime he was well taken care of." 
 Mr. Bigelow, who drove the route for 25 years, died in 1975. The dairy's home delivery service hung on for another two decades, until last month, when it became another victim of the social and cultural changes that have all but erased doctors' house calls and Fuller Brush salesmen from the landscape of everyday life.
For several years now, Monument Farms, a dairy and bottling operation owned by Mr. James and several members of his extended family in this small western Vermont village, had been one of a few dairies in the state still offering doorstep service. But in October, the family decided that the house-to-house milk route had to go, for financial reasons.
Now, in a state that is synonymous with dairy farms, where years ago practically every town had more than one farmer who would drop off milk door-to-door, there are only three dairies that still make home deliveries.
"We had a general sense that it was time to stop traveling all those country roads for a few quarts of milk," said Mr. James, whose dairy also supplies all the groceries, restaurants, convenience stores and schools in town, not to mention the 1,500 quarts delivered each day to Middlebury College.
The history of home milk delivery reflects social and economic change in the nation over the years. It began in the last century, after Americans moved off farms and into villages.
Fred Webster, a retired dairy specialist with the University of Vermont's Extension System, explained that before the turn of the century, milk cans would be loaded onto a horse-drawn wagon. At each house, he said, "the milkman would scoop the milk out of the can into a glass bottle provided by the customer."
Growing up in the central Vermont town of Randolph, he recalled "at least 9 or 10 farmers making home deliveries."
"I don't think anybody has exact numbers," Mr. Webster said, "but when I started at U.V.M. in 1956, there were 230 milk dealers in the state, and most did home deliveries. Going back to the 1920's and 30's, you could probably multiply that number by a factor of 10."
Theron Wolcott recalled that his father, Guy, had gone into the home delivery business in 1918, just as World War I was ending. The family started making the rounds with a horse and wagon, twice a day in the summer.
His father's dairy, G. F. Wolcott, sold pints and quarts in glass bottles with a waxed pasteboard cap; milk was delivered to the fraternity houses at Middlebury College in cans. Theron Wolcott, now 85 years old, said he and his sister had been responsible for running the full bottles to the customer's doorstep, picking up the empties and washing them out back at the farm.
In 1921, his father bought a Chevrolet truck to do the milk route, but a few years later, the Wolcotts returned to using the horse-drawn wagon for village deliveries, replenishing the wagon at fixed points along the route. "It was more economical," Mr. Wolcott said, "than starting and stopping a truck."
The Depression hit, and his father "furnished milk to families with children even though they couldn't pay for it," Mr. Wolcott recalled.
After World War II, pasteurization -- heating milk to destroy bacteria -- became universal, Mr. Webster said, but its cost drove thousands of small farms out of business.
It was the Federal food program for women, infants and children, known as W.I.C., that extended the life of home deliveries by at least a quarter-century. Because Vermont state regulations require that W.I.C. participants receive their dairy products, orange juice and cereal at home, most of the dairies still doing home deliveries are also the W.I.C. suppliers for that region. Monument Farms had the regional contract from 1972, when the program began in Vermont, until last month.
That was when the dairy lost the contract to a lower bidder, a couple who do only W.I.C. deliveries.
At that point, "we dropped from 720 customers to 120 customers overnight," said Robert James, the son who handles marketing and distribution for Monument Farms. "I was driving 70 miles a day, five days a week on dirt roads, just to deliver a few quarts of milk. We couldn't justify it anymore."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT; UNITED STATES (95%); VERMONT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; DELIVERY SERVICES MILK (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); FLUID MILK MFG (73%); FAMILY (73%); CONVENIENCE STORES (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); CHRISTMAS (55%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, SALLY THERON WOLCOTT (81%); HAROLD BIGELOW (65%); FRED WEBSTER (64%); STEPHEN JAMES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



248 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ELECTION: THE POLICY MAKERS;
Assembling A New Team On Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
Surprised by the speed of a rash of post-election resignations that have claimed all but two central players on its economic team, the Clinton Administration is scrambling to rebuild that side of the Cabinet before it has to confront three major challenges next year: a potential slowdown of the nation's economy, change in entitlement programs and growing tensions with China over trade policy.
By the end of this week, it appeared that only two Cabinet members at the center of economic policy making -- Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the acting United States Trade Representative, Charlene Barshefsky -- planned to remain for Mr. Clinton's second term. 
 The other major players, who were credited with merging domestic and foreign economic goals more successfully than past Administrations and helping Mr. Clinton take credit for a remarkable period of economic expansion and low inflation, have all signaled in recent days that they plan to return to the private sector or to academia.
And from the White House to the Treasury to the Commerce Department, there is already a palpable sense that the energy and balance of the Administration's first economic team will be enormously difficult to replicate in a second term -- and that the economic and Congressional conditions in the next four years are likely to be far messier to manage.
"The real test will be the degree that the new team can hang together," said Gene Sperling, the deputy head of the National Economic Council and one of the most influential behind-the-scenes operators of the Administration's economic initiatives. "The thing about the initial team is that we were born by fire," cast together in the ferment of Mr. Clinton's tumultuous first term. That bonded us together, and it's not something that is easy to create a second time."
But Ms. Tyson was optimistic, saying today: "There is now an existing process and a clear agenda that the President laid out in the campaign. And a new budget is a way to focus the new team."
Most of the Cabinet members and other important economic players who said they were leaving Washington were the authors of Mr. Clinton's "Putting People First" theme in the 1992 campaign -- and the Administration's subsequent retreat from that agenda. Among them are Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, the campaign manager in 1992 who became the Administration's outspoken advocate for free trade, and Robert B. Reich, who was the champion of far bigger commitments to education and training and then of "corporate responsibility."
Laura D'Andrea Tyson, an economist who was head of the Council of Economic Advisers and then head of the National Economic Council, where all the Administration's economic issues are supposed to be worked out, said she will return to California. Her successor at the council, Joseph Stiglitz, is widely assumed to be headed to the World Bank.
Another of the central figures in the Administration's economic team in the first term, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, was killed in April in an air crash in Croatia that also took 34 other lives.
That leaves Mr. Rubin, who previously ran the economic council and is usually the most fiscally conservative of the lot, as the chief source of continuity. With Secretary of State Warren Christopher also leaving, "Bob becomes the grand old man of the Cabinet," a senior Administration official said. "His influence will grow simply by virtue of the fact that he's been around the longest, in the two most important positions. And that will certainly change the nature of debate."
It was Mr. Rubin who pressed Mr. Clinton to abandon the grander plans for his first term in favor of deficit-cutting, betting that the financial markets would ultimately reward that effort. That strategy soon became the centerpiece of the Administration's economic plan, and as Mr. Rubin moved in early 1995 from the newly created National Economic Council to the Treasury, his influence as Mr. Clinton's chief economic sounding board grew.
For the next term, Mr. Rubin has already made his priorities clear: a long-term plan for curbing the growth of entitlement programs, especially Social Security and Medicare; a renewed focus on urban policy, one of Mr. Rubin's chief interests even when he was an investment banker in New York, and a renewed American commitment to using the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as instruments to develop the third world.
The question White House officials say they cannot yet answer is whether there will be a more liberal counterweight to Mr. Rubin's market-oriented approach to national economic policy. In early 1995, for example, Mr. Rubin was among those opposing a significant increase in the minimum wage, while Mr. Reich argued fiercely for one. His argument -- that an increase would not slow job growth -- ultimately won the day, though the size of the increase was reduced. Congress passed the increase just before the election.
Mr. Rubin also opposed efforts within the Administration to give tax breaks to companies that avoid downsizing and that offer workers a greater equity stake. That effort was quickly squelched. Instead, the White House settled for a less controversial -- and less effective -- conference celebrating companies that it considered model corporate citizens.
Perhaps the most critical appointment facing Mr. Clinton in the economic arena is the post that is least talked about and least understood: the head of the National Economic Council, which has been held by Ms. Tyson. Like its counterpart, the National Security Council, the National Economic Council was created by Mr. Clinton to to resolve economic debates within the Administration, and to merge domestic and foreign issues.
The issues the council tackles -- and thus the agenda that reaches the President's desk -- will depend in large part on who is placed in charge. Among the candidates are Samuel R. Berger, the deputy chief of the National Security Council, who has played a large role in policy toward Japan and China over the last three years, and Lawrence Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, who made little secret of his disdain for the two biggest trade battles the Administration entered into: one with Tokyo over automotive trade, and another with Beijing over the piracy of software and videotapes.
Mr. Sperling, who has been in charge of domestic policy issues in the council, is also considered a possible successor to Ms. Tyson.
Whoever is appointed, Administration officials agree that two major economic issues are likely to dominate the next year. The first is keeping the economy growing with low inflation, though that decision may depend more on the judgment of the Federal Reserve Board than any of the officials Mr. Clinton will appoint over the next few weeks.
The other issue is China. Its trade surplus with Washington is rising as Japan's is leveling off. And there are continuing debates in Washington about how to handle China's economic expansion and its refusal to play by world trading rules.
Mr. Clinton appears to be retaining one of the Administration's strongest China hawks, Ms. Barshefsky, the acting trade representative. But before she can be given Mr. Kantor's old title, the Administration must negotiate a way around a legal restriction that bars those who have represented a foreign government from holding the job. As a trade lawyer in the early 1990's, Ms. Barshefsky briefly represented Canada in a case involving lumber.
Should she become Trade Representative, the Administration could continue some of its high-profile confrontations with countries it says are blocking entry of American goods or violating American copyrights.

GRAPHIC: Photo/Chart: "WHO'S WHO: Economic Team in Transition"
The team that shaped President Clinton's economic policy in his first terms is now changing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (DEPUTY US TRADE REPR) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



249 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: W.R. Goodwin, 72, Former Johns Manville Chief

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
W. Richard Goodwin, a former president and chief executive of the Johns Manville Corporation, died on Oct. 24 in Denver, where he had lived for many years. He was 72.
He died of a stroke, said his son, Douglas Goodwin. 
 Known for his flamboyant style, Mr. Goodwin brought an atypical background to the executive suite.
After serving in the Army in World War II, William Richard Goodwin received bachelor's and master's degrees from Reed College in Portland, Ore., and in 1955 earned a doctorate in experimental psychology from Stanford.
For the next decade he worked for the Rand Corporation and the Systems Development Corporation helping to develop a large computer-based control system for the Strategic Air Command.
After a few years as a management consultant, he joined Johns Manville, one of his clients, in 1968 as vice president of corporate planning.
A little over a year later he was named president and chief executive. He resigned at age 52 in 1976. In accepting his resignation, Manville's board cited differences "related to the style of management" rather than conflict over direction of the company.
It was a clash many in the financial community knew would inevitably occur.
"Where the directors wore three-piece Brooks Brothers suits and had short hair," one analyst said at the time, "Goodwin wore flashy sports clothes and let his hair grow."
Manville's board of directors was also reportedly displeased when Mr. Goodwin spearheaded a bitter, public fight to bring the Olympic Games to Denver in 1972. The effort ultimately failed in a Colorado referendum.
Still, in Mr. Goodwin's tenure, Johns Manville's sales more than doubled, to $1.1 billion. The company, a manufacturer of asbestos fiber, changed its name to the Manville Corporation in 1980. It filed for bankruptcy protection in 1982, facing millions of dollars in claims over asbestos-related health problems. It is now called the Schuller Corporation of Denver.
In addition to his son, Douglas, of Denver, Mr. Goodwin is survived by a sister, Barbara Wood, of Vancouver, Wash., and a daughter, Barbara Goodwin of Menlo Park, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Richard Goodwin (Jack Manning/The New York Times, 1973)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JM (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); WASHINGTON, USA (67%); OREGON, USA (57%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS MANVILLE CORP (96%); RAND CORP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); COLORADO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); WASHINGTON, USA (67%); OREGON, USA (57%); DENVER, CO, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); EXECUTIVES (91%); DEATHS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); STROKES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ASBESTOS (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (55%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODWIN, W RICHARD; GILPIN, KENNETH N ANN LIVERMORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



250 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Mourn Loss Of Hospital In Queens;
Health Care Shift In Jackson Heights

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
A lone guard watched over the lobby at Jackson Heights Hospital in Queens, detachedly pointing the infrequent visitor to two slow elevators. Behind him, the hospital's one telephone operator sat in a small office. They were the only people on the first floor, where in room after room, green beds were empty, eerily appropriate symbols for a hospital that is closing.
Upstairs, in a starkly furnished office, Dr. Muhammad N. Ali examined a handful of the patients who remained, including a diabetic woman recovering from an appendectomy. The 75-year-old woman, who spoke only Spanish, was typical of the patients Dr. Ali has seen in his six years at the hospital. Almost all live in the neighborhood, and many receive Medicaid or Medicare. 
 For generations, this small community hospital at 34th Avenue and 73d Street was what residents in Queens and the other boroughs outside Manhattan expected -- not a world-class teaching hospital married to an Ivy League school, but the corner hospital, where bones were reset after a fall from a jungle gym, and sisters and cousins were delivered by familiar doctors.
But to hospital administrators and government health officials, hospitals like Jackson Heights are indicative of the problems in what some consider to be the nation's most inefficient health care system. New York City's hospitals have merged feverishly, forming Byzantine networks to cope with price deregulation and growing pressure from health-maintenance organizations to cut costs.
And so, many experts say Jackson Heights is merely an early example of what will become an increasingly common occurrence: the disappearance of neighborhood hospitals in New York City, especially outside Manhattan.
Where local residents and hospital employees see only loss, outsiders see the elimination of excess fat. So it was perhaps no surprise when Jackson Heights' owners recently announced that it would be shuttered on Dec. 6, the first hospital in the city to close since Parsons Hospital in Queens in 1988, according to the State Health Department.
"It's not always glorious to be the first," said Stephen S. Mills, the president and chief executive of the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens in Flushing. The center was bought in 1992 by New York Hospital Care Network, which last April acquired three more hospitals in Queens: Jackson Heights, Flushing Hospital Medical Center and Little Neck Community Hospital. The network's flagship is the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
In the last few weeks, local politicians, union leaders and residents have lashed out at a series of announcements expected to reshape health care in Queens: Little Neck will close as a hospital on Dec. 3 and become an ambulatory care unit, serving only outpatients, and Jackson Heights will close. Flushing has already lost beds and staff. In all, about 700 jobs and 190 beds will be eliminated.
Cynthia Banton, a registered nurse who has worked at Jackson Heights Hospital for five years and has lived in the neighborhood for 13, was one of the hospital's 259 employees to lose their jobs. Her anxieties, though, went beyond work.
"I'm very sad not only from the standpoint that I will be unemployed, but also because I am a resident of Jackson Heights," she said, adding that most of her colleagues lived in the area. "The only other hospital around here is Elmhurst. It's going to be pretty congested, and that bothers me. People might be forced to wait for a long time there, or they'll have to take a long trip to see a doctor. It's like double trouble."
For Both Sides, A Case of Necessity
A confluence of economic forces makes the cuts necessary, Mr. Mills said. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements have been reduced, and H.M.O.'s are forcing New York State hospitals to cut costs, as they have elsewhere in the country for years.
What is more, hospitals will enter the new world of the free market on Jan. 1, as price controls on medical procedures are lifted. All of this is occurring, health experts say, in a city with too many hospitals competing for too few patients.
This year, before the announcement that it would close, Jackson Heights' 83 beds had a 54 percent occupancy rate, according to hospital documents. The institution needed $20 million in renovations to comply with health and safety codes, said a hospital spokeswoman, Spencine Laster-Hendricks.
"It's beyond the scope of anyone's ability to put forth that kind of money," Mr. Mills said.
Doctors and nurses at Jackson Heights, while acknowledging the empty beds, said the current and previous owners never seriously tried to attract patients.
They said theirs was a true community hospital, drawing almost all of its patients from the neighborhood. Although some older European immigrants still come, most of the patients belong to Jackson Heights' new groups: Ecuadoreans, Colombians, Dominicans, Indians, Bangladeshis, Chinese and Koreans. Dr. Ali described them as the working poor, people who are self-employed or who work at small companies with no benefits -- in short, people with few health-care options besides the corner hospital.
Shortly after Dr. Ali arrived at Jackson Heights in 1990, about 20 people a week came to the clinic, he said. Recently, the number was about 30 a day, said Dr. Ali, who is now the director of clinics.
"If they didn't have insurance, we said, 'Pay what you can,' " said Dr. Ali, whose interview was interrupted every few minutes by unscreened phone calls from patients. "These people, they're like my family."

Trying to Replace Tradition and Trust
Jackson Heights Hospital was founded in 1990. Physicians Hospital, its predecessor in the building, opened in 1935 after the subway line first reached the area and Jackson Heights grew into a real community.
It is not yet clear what will happen to the building, which occupies one block in a residential area.
Jose Ortiz, 21, grew up a block away from the hospital after his parents immigrated from Colombia. On a recent visit to the clinic with his wife, Emily Tan, also 21, he rolled up his right sleeve to reveal an old scar on his wrist, the result of tripping on a broken bottle at the age of 13. A Jackson Heights surgeon had closed the gash with five stitches. "This is really going to be a loss for the community, especially the emergency room," Mr. Ortiz said. "You knew the place and the staff."
Later, he went to visit his sister, Eliana Ortiz, 20, who worked for a podiatrist across the street and who was six months pregnant. "Where will I go now for an emergency, with the baby?" Ms. Ortiz asked.
To assuage such anxieties, New York Hospital Care Network has been placing full-page ads in community newspapers. They do not mention Jackson Heights or budget cuts, but focus on the three institutions that represent the network's medical base in Queens.
Mr. Mills said New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens, which was formerly Booth Memorial Medical Center, will become the network's second nerve center, to coordinate care for patients there as well as for some of the Flushing and Little Neck patients. (The network's chief center is New York-Cornell.)
Mr. Mills added that the network is also interested in acquiring Elmhurst Hospital Center and Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica, two municipal hospitals that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani wants to sell. The board of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation approved a lease last week for a private company to take over Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn, another institution the Mayor sought to put in private hands. Should the Queens hospitals be sold to New York Hospital, the network's hospitals would form a triangle at the heart of Queens, for the most part a solidly middle-class area.
For now, Mr. Mills said, the network is trying to improve care and efficiency at its Queens hospitals. The New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens and Flushing Hospital, which are less than a mile from each other and which had begun separate renovation programs, will be meshed so that medical procedures now offered at both will be consolidated at one. Those and other savings will eventually make Flushing Hospital profitable, Mr. Mills said, adding that the hospital is expected to lose $17 million this year.
Because of the Queens hospitals' affiliation with New York-Cornell, patients will also have local access to procedures they have traditionally sought in Manhattan, Mr. Mills said. For example, the expansion of the cardiac surgery site at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens will mean that most heart operations will be handled in the borough. What is more, Mr. Mills said, the network plans to develop an intensive pediatric care unit for extremely sick children, who now have to travel to Manhattan or to Long Island Jewish Medical Center on the border of Queens and Nassau counties.
Dr. Barbara DeBuono, the State Health Commissioner, said: "The residents of Queens should expect more of these specialty services will now be based in Queens, but they won't be duplicated in Queens."
Dr. DeBuono said Queens still had an excess of a few hundred beds. In the first quarter of this year, the borough's 5,284 beds had an occupancy rate of 79.4 percent, according to state figures.

Back at the Hospital, Wounds to Heal
Perhaps because the elimination of beds is the most visible sign of a shrinking system and usually entails job losses, Queens officials and union leaders have condemned all cuts.
"I believe Queens has always been underbedded and underserved," said the Borough President, Claire Shulman, who worked as a registered nurse before entering politics. "It's going to be especially hard on Queens. I have the largest number of senior citizens in New York City, and they usually require more medical care than younger folks." According to the 1990 Federal Census, 286,248 of the borough's 1,951,598 residents were age 65 or over -- about 15 percent, a higher ratio than in any other borough.
Dennis Rivera, the president of Local 1199 of the Hospital and Human Service Employees Union, which he said represents about 2,000 workers at three of New York Hospital Care Network's sites in Queens, accused the network of trying to create a monopoly in northeast Queens.
"It is now an area dominated by New York Hospital," Mr. Rivera said. "And they have these very aggressive tactics of buying up and shutting down community hospitals so that they can take those patients to their main campuses. They're doing what's already happened all over the country."
At Jackson Heights Hospital, new patients have not been admitted for the last few weeks and, with only about 10 of the 83 beds occupied, most of the hospital is "like a ghost town," Dr. Ali said. Patients recently began receiving fliers advising them of the closing and referring them to three other hospitals.
Ms. Ortiz said she had started going to Flushing Hospital for prenatal care. Her brother and his wife, who had not heard of the impending closing, said they now understood why they had been referred to Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Bushwick, Brooklyn. Instead of a two-minute walk, a visit to Wyckoff had taken the couple an hour on two subway lines.
Dr. Ali, who is disgusted with the health care industry's increasing focus on the bottom line, said he had rejected several job offers from other hospitals. A few weeks ago, Dr. Ali, who lives in Jackson Heights, opened a private practice in a basement office a few blocks south of the hospital.
As the 75-year-old diabetic woman left his office, Dr. Ali told her, a little hopefully: "You have to stick to one doctor. Take all the medication as directed. After the hospital closes, you can come to me. Or you can go somewhere else."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Ortiz, who grew up a block away from Jackson Heights Hospital, says its closing is "going to be a loss for the community." He recently visited the hospital with his wife, Emily Tan; his sister, Eliana Ortiz, is at left. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Dr. Muhammad N. Ali, the director of the hospital's clinics, examining a patient, Tran Lectran, at left. "These people, they're like my family," Dr. Ali said of his patients. Visitors, above, waited to to see a clinic doctor on Friday. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 41)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Jackson Heights Hospital" gives various stats about the Jackson Heights Hospital. (Source: Jackson Heights Hospital; Dr. Muhammad N. Ali, director of clinics) (pg. 46)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the location of Jackson Heights Hospital. (pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: JACKSON HEIGHTS HOSPITAL (NYC); NEW YORK HOSPITAL CARE NETWORK PARSONS HOSPITAL (62%); MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSON HEIGHTS HOSPITAL (NYC); NEW YORK HOSPITAL CARE NETWORK MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MEDICARE; MEDICAID; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); MEDICARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); MEDICAID (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); DIABETES (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU STEPHEN S MILLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



251 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Leaves Its Mark On Politics In Britain

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The leading candidate is talkative and telegenic, he likes rock music, and his wife is a lawyer with a lucrative private practice. He promises a "covenant" with the public in a tub-thumping style that has been likened to revival-meeting preaching, and he has made a concerted election-season move to the middle, co-opting positions of the more conservative rival party.
The governing party is campaigning to gain the credit it feels it is due from voters in exchange for nearly four years of economic growth, and party leaders hope that this will impress voters more than the ongoing legislative investigations of "sleaze" in government. 
 Both parties vie to be identified as the champions of morality and family values, and the candidates are pressed to declare themselves on the issue of abortion.
To a degree that is provoking much comment and some dismay from Britons, the campaign for the British general election is following many of the trends and employing many of the techniques of the campaign that ended Tuesday in the United States.
Among the issues that John Major, the Conservative Prime Minister, and Tony Blair, the Labor Party leader, are debating are welfare reform, gun control, medical care, education and school safety, tax cuts, crime, drug use, and school dress codes. Of course, this is still Britain, so they are also debating whether or not the country should bring back caning as a punishment for delinquent students.
In the last week both parties have moved vigorously to respond to an appeal made by the widow of a London headmaster killed by a student -- for an ethical renaissance. In one attempt to address that issue, the Government began discussing how to reduce the level of violence shown on television and in film.
Mr. Major must call an election by May and will probably wait until then, even though two recent deaths of Tory members have reduced his party's majority in Parliament to one seat. He can rely on the nine members of Parliament from the Ulster Unionist Party to keep the Conservatives in power even if he loses his majority, and he needs as much time as possible to overtake Mr. Blair, whose lead in the most recent Marketing and Research International poll is up to 28 points.
Much is being made of the resonance of the American race in British politics. When Mr. Major and Mr. Blair interrupted their party conference speeches with confessional stories about youthful hard knocks, commentators promptly termed the tactic "American style."
When they appeared on stage, kissing their wives at the festive conclusions of the party gatherings, comparisons were immediately made to the similar practice in the United States. "You never saw that kind of public cuddling at party conferences before," said Anthony King, a professor of government at the University of Essex.
Norma Major has in recent months emerged from the private, suburban housewife's life she had maintained to give interviews and make public appearances. The Prime Minister has called her his "secret weapon" in the race against Mr. Blair, whose wife, Cherie Booth, is a high-powered London lawyer with a sparkling academic background and roots in Labor's socialist past.
Well-worn phrases from American public life abound. Mr. Major told his party that "the buck stops here." Mr. Blair told his that "we have little to fear but fear itself."
When Mr. Blair accused Mr. Major of introducing class differences into the race, he called it "totally American-style negative campaigning." The people behind the candidates here are now being referred to as "spin doctors."
None of this is accidental. Both parties actively study the practices they are busy disparaging. Brian Mawhinney, the Conservative Party chairman, and Danny Finkelstein, the Tories' chief strategist, have been frequent visitors to Republican Party events in the United States, and Philip Gould, the Labor Party's director of polling, has just returned from Washington, where he hobnobbed with his counterparts in the Clinton campaign.
Professor King, a Canadian who has been here 40 years, was dubious. "Every British election is described as more Presidential than the one before, and it's always untrue," he said. "One hundred years ago people were making judgments based on the personalities of Gladstone and Disraeli."
But if American notions of marketing political candidates haven't taken over the British political debate, how then to explain what The Financial Times, probably Britain's most serious newspaper, put on its front page Wednesday. The paper reported that as a result of a recent poll showing that Mr. Blair's electoral appeal to women was lagging, the candidate was changing his hairdo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL UK (52%); CONSERVATIVE PARTY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE PARTY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION POLITICS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ETHICS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (71%); FAMILY (70%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (65%); TAX LAW (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (64%); GUN CONTROL (51%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); BLAIR, TONY TONY BLAIR (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



252 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ELECTION: THE CONSTITUENCIES;
The Expanding Hispanic Vote Shakes Republican Strongholds

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE, Calif., Nov. 9

 BODY:
The results of Tuesday's balloting around the country made clear that the Democratic-leaning Hispanic vote is becoming an ever larger factor in American politics, nowhere more so than here in Orange County, the sprawling suburb south of Los Angeles that has traditionally been an icon of conservative Republicanism.
In Orange County, as elsewhere in California, and in states like Arizona, Texas and Florida, Hispanic voters showed up at the polls in record numbers, giving President Clinton 72 percent of their ballots. They also gave many other Democratic candidates in Federal, state and local races strong support and, in some cases, the edge needed for victory. 
 At scores of polling places, election officials reported a surge in the number of Hispanic voters, compared with the number four years earlier. Their ranks swelled close to 30 percent nationwide because of citizenship campaigns, registration drives, get-out-the-vote efforts and fears about tight new immigration strictures being advocated by Republicans.
In many states -- Connecticut, Indiana, Nevada, New York and Wyoming, to name a few -- as well as in any number of cities, towns and counties, heavy Hispanic voting helped dozens of Hispanic candidates win election, or, in many cases, re-election, to legislatures, councils, committees and boards.
"It was a watershed day," said Cecilia Munoz, a leader of La Raza, a group based in Washington that pushes Hispanic causes.
For example, in Orange County -- the fifth-most-populous county in the nation, with 2.5 million people, and a county in which Republican Presidential candidates usually must get at least two-thirds of the vote to carry the rest of the state -- a heavy Hispanic vote on Tuesday helped Mr. Clinton hold Bob Dole's winning margin to just a hair over half the vote.
The President won California easily, his big majorities in the Democratic strongholds of Los Angeles and San Francisco never threatened by the diminished Republican numbers from Orange County, which once had few members of minorities but is now 25 percent Hispanic.
Also in Orange County, the heavy Hispanic vote enabled a Hispanic Democrat, Loretta Sanchez, to come within a mere 233 votes of unseating Representative Robert K. Dornan, one of the most conservative Republicans in Congress.
What is more, with 10,000 absentee ballots to be counted in Mr. Dornan's district, Ms. Sanchez may yet oust Mr. Dornan, a nine-term legislator whose hard-right, often bombastic ideology had made him one of the county's most entrenched officials.
In Arizona, a state that had not gone Democratic in a Presidential election since 1948, a heavy Hispanic vote helped Mr. Clinton eke out a narrow 47 to 44 percent win over Mr. Dole.
In Florida, which has been Republican country for the last two decades of Presidential elections, a heavy Hispanic vote -- helped by a switch to the Democratic column by many of the usually conservative Cuban-Americans -- pushed Mr. Clinton to a victory of 48 to 42 percent.
Over all, Hispanic voters account for about 5 percent of the voting population of the United States; that figure rises to almost 10 percent in Arizona, about 12 percent in Texas and nearly 15 percent in California. But until this year, Hispanic voters lagged well behind most of the American population in election participation, being only about 80 percent as likely to register to vote as most other Americans.
According to election specialists and students of Hispanic affairs, the increased number of Hispanic voters on Tuesday resulted from a sharp increase in the number of Hispanic immigrants becoming citizens and a push by Democrats to get them registered and get them to the polls.
The big presence also resulted, the experts say, from deep concern among the Hispanic population that Republicans are intent on cutting Hispanic immigration and reducing civil rights protections and welfare benefits for immigrants already in the country, including those who arrived legally. That concern ran especially deep in California, where a ballot initiative, Proposition 187, proposed immigration strictures so severe that it drew attention well beyond California's borders.
As for the raw numbers of Hispanics who voted on Tuesday, surveys found that in Texas, the Hispanic part of the vote increased almost 60 percent this year, compared with the the fall of 1992. In California, the increase was 40 percent; in Florida, it was 10 percent.
Equally important, the surveys found that while the Republicans had sometimes picked up as many as one of every three Hispanic votes, and sometimes more, in earlier elections, Mr. Clinton got roughly three out of four Hispanic votes this time around, a good 15 percentage points better than his 1992 showing.
"The Republicans once could compete for our vote, but now it's clear that they're facing a powerful and united bloc of opposition from us," said Antonio Gonzalez, the president of the Southwest Voter Research Institute of San Antonio, Tex., a group that tracks Hispanic political participation. "And since 1992, we've done more than just increase our raw numbers of voters by close to a third. Our voter turnout rate also increased this fall."
Election Day poll surveys by the institute and other organizations found that although Tuesday was, over all, one of the worst voter turnout days in modern American political history, there nevertheless was a notable increase in Hispanic turnout, from about three-fourths of the national turnout rate in 1992 to close to par with that rate this year.
Still, Hispanic turnout continued to lag seriously in some areas, even in parts of Orange County.
For example, in Representative Dornan's district -- which has become almost 50 percent Hispanic in recent years, with many members of the community struggling economically -- the Hispanic turnout rate was only about two-thirds that of non-Hispanics. Had Hispanic voters turned out at the same rate as non-Hispanic voters, Ms. Sanchez would probably be on her way to Washington.
"But even with this kind of lagging turnout, there's no getting around the increasing Latino power here and elsewhere," said Ken Khachigian, the Orange County lawyer and political consultant who directed the Dole campaign in California. "They came close to getting Dornan on Election Day, and if they had turned out like they should have, he'd be gone for sure by now, however the absentee ballot count might go. Hispanics are something Republicans are going to have to come to grips with."
Bob Mulholland, one of the California Democratic Party's top political planners, argues that Tuesday's voting made clear "for all but the blind" that the Hispanic vote is now an important part of the Democratic base, especially in California.
"And it'll stay that way as long as Democrats respond to Latino concerns," he said.
On Wednesday, the 43 newly elected and re-elected Democrats in the 80-member California State Assembly -- which now has 14 Hispanic members -- responded in a big way.
Having just regained control of the Assembly, they made their first order of business the election of a Speaker. And in so doing they also made Golden State history, choosing the state's first Hispanic Speaker: Cruz Bustamante of Fresno.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; HISPANIC-AMERICANS VOTERS & VOTING (96%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BALLOTS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (53%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; DORNAN, ROBERT K (REPR); SANCHEZ, LORETTA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (79%); LORETTA SANCHEZ (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



253 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ELECTION: THE NUMBERS;
Portrait of the Electorate

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
As in 1992, Bill Clinton won re-election without a majority of the popular vote. He was able to hold on to the support of many of the demographic groups who elected him President in the first place and, in some cases, increase his share of their votes. Women, blacks, young voters, Democrats and liberals all gave Mr. Clinton a majority of their votes. He did well with swing groups, like independents and suburbanites. Bob Dole's best showing was with conservatives, Republicans and white Protestants. Ross Perot received only 8 percent, down from 19 percent in 1992.
This table, based on surveys of voters leaving polling stations throughout the country, shows how 120 demographic groups have voted for President since 1972. The political equivalent of sports box scores or stock market listings, this table can help readers make their own interpretations about what happened on election night. 
 The exit polls used to draw this portrait of voters are based on large numbers of respondents, making it possible to measure the preferences of some groups, like Jewish and Asian voters, or young women or conservative Democrats, whose portion of the voting population makes them too small to examine in typical telephone surveys.

The Gender Gap
The gender gap, the difference between a candidate's votes from men and his votes from women, was first noted in 1980, when men were 8 percentage points more likely to support Ronald Reagan than women were. Since then, the gender gap has ranged from 4 to 7 points in magnitude.
This year there is an 11-point gap among Mr. Clinton's voters. A gender gap is seen in all age groups, from 17 points between men and women under 30, to 8 points for those aged 45 to 59. The gender gap persists even among black voters, who supported Mr. Clinton very strongly over all.

Party Identification And Ideology
In the 1996 election, Mr. Clinton was more successful at holding the votes of self-described Democrats than he was the last time around. In the end Mr. Dole was supported by most Republicans. But while Democrats who described themselves as conservative strongly supported their party's ticket, Republicans who characterized their political ideology as liberal were closely divided between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Dole.
Independent voters in 1992 split their votes evenly among the three candidates, but this year only 17 percent of them supported Mr. Perot, while Mr. Clinton's share of their vote increased to 43 percent. Mr. Clinton did particularly well with liberal and moderate independents, while Mr. Dole was favored by independents who described themselves as conservative.

Pocketbook Concerns
Incumbents usually win the support of voters who say their own finances have improved during a President's tenure. Four years ago, for example, George Bush was backed by voters who said their family's finances were better than four years earlier, and Mr. Clinton won the support of those who characterized their situation as declining. This year, the reverse was true. Mr. Clinton, the incumbent, got two-thirds of the votes from those who said their personal economics had improved, while Bob Dole won the support of people whose economic condition had deteriorated.
Over all, the number of people who see their economic situation as worsening dropped from a third of all voters to a fifth, and those who perceive their finances in a positive fashion increased from a quarter to a third of all voters. MARJORIE CONNELLY

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Portrait of the Electorate" Data for 1996 were collected by Voter News Service based on questionnaires completed by 16,627 voters leaving 300 polling places around the nation on Election Day. Data for 1992 were collected by Voter Research and Surveys based on questionnaires completed by 15,490 voters. Data for 1980 through 1988 were based on surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News: 11,645 in 1988; 9,174 in 1984, and 15,201 in 1980. Data for 1972 and 1976 were based on surveys conducted by CBS News, with 15,300 voters in 1976 and 17,595 in 1972.
 
Family income categories in 1976: Under $8,000, $8,000-$12,000, $12,001-$20,000, and over $20,000. In 1980: Under $10,000, $10,000-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1984: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1988: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000, over $50,000 and over $100,000. In 1992: Under $15,000, $15,000-$29,999, $30,000-$49,999, $50,000 and over, and $100,000 and over.
 
The category of independents includes respondents who indicated they considered themselves "something else" in 1972, 1992 and 1996. "Something else" was not an option the other years. Male and female college graduates include those with postgraduate education. In 1984, first-time voter refers to voters first registered to vote in that year. In 1976 and 1980 the Congressional vote does not include New York and California. Family financial situation is compared to one year ago in 1976 and 1980 and four years ago in 1984, 1992 and 1996; 1976 and 1984 data are from NBC News.
 
Those who gave no answer are not shown. Dashes indicate that a question was not asked or a category was not provided in a particular year. Asterisks indicate that there was an insufficient number of respondents in that subgroup.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; WOMEN; BLACKS; PROTESTANT CHURCHES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RELIGION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; PEROT, ROSS; CONNELLY, MARJORIE BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



254 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: Close to Panama, Dreaming of Rival 'Canals'

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
From the moment it opened in 1914, the Panama Canal has been the envy of nearby countries. For centuries, their governments dreamed of waterways of their own across the Central American isthmus and of the prosperity and power that so busy and vital a trade route would surely bestow on them.
Now, a century after the intrigue among great powers that enabled the United States to elbow out France and Britain as the builder of the magnificent "path between the seas" -- which generated $486 million in tolls in the last year -- Panama's neighbors think they have a second chance. 
 Seizing on political and technical uncertainties about the canal's future once the United States transfers it to Panamanian control three years from now, they are once again dreaming.
But this time, because of cost concerns and environmental restraints, they imagine not a gigantic waterway but a series of "dry canals" -- light rail lines for container traffic -- that would be cheaper and easier to build. And though foreign powers are once more actively involved in the maneuvering, this time the principal players are China, Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, not the United States or Europe.
Just as in the 19th century, Nicaragua has quickly emerged as Panama's main rival.
In August, the Government there signed an agreement with an international consortium, backed by East Asian and Nicaraguan interests that argue that shippers are hungry for cheaper, quicker and more secure alternatives to the Panama Canal. The plan envisions a privately built $1.6 billion rail link across southern Nicaragua.
"You cannot look at this project isolated from its geopolitical context," Juan Carlos Rivas, general manager of the Consortium for the Inter-Oceanic Canal of Nicaragua S.A., as the group is formally known, said in an interview.
"The world's great powers are looking to Central America as one of their bases to compete in the 21st century, so this is not just an economic issue. There are large political and strategic interests here too."
For the immediate future, the Panama Canal, which handled 198 million tons of cargo and more than 13,500 ships in the last year, will clearly remain the main trade route in the region.
But with commerce and container shipments booming, especially between East Asia and North and Latin America, the search for choices other than the canal and container shipments by rail across the United States is already under way.
"It's all going to depend on the economics, but we feel there have to be more and better options to move global trade from Asia and Europe to both coasts of the United States," said J. T. Keegan Jr., vice president and director of Latin American operations for Sea-Land Service Inc., the giant American ocean freight company that pioneered the use of containers. "There's been tremendous growth in trade in the region, so yes, we are looking for alternatives."

The Existing Canal Has Its Drawbacks
Pointing to toll increases and "recent instances of delays in the canal" because of congestion, Mr. Keegan said his main consideration was being able to "transit between the Atlantic and the Pacific as efficiently and reliably as possible." He also mentioned the Panama Canal's "engineering limitations and maintenance problems."
Those problems include the supply of water, sedimentation and the need to build a new set of locks early in the 21st century, an estimated $7 billion investment, compared with the original $380 million cost of the canal's construction.
Then, too, there is the issue of the new generation of cargo vessels that are simply too wide to fit through the Panama Canal but might find a Central American port and light-rail project attractive.
"Obviously the ships we are building today cannot transit the canal," said John Urban, vice president for Latin American services at American Pacific Lines, a large shipper based in Oakland, Calif. "They're too large, and the operators who are commissioning these ships are planning around that, assuming that they will serve trade routes that don't require transit of the Panama Canal."

Panama Intends To Be Competitive
Alberto Aleman Zubieta, a Panamanian engineer who became the Administrator of the Panama Canal in August, said he was very much aware of those concerns among shippers. For that reason, he added, the canal commission has begun an $895 million improvement and modernization program to increase the canal's capacity by 20 percent and allow it to remain competitive with any potential rivals.
"We understand that we do not have a monopoly in this business," said Mr. Aleman, who studied industrial and civil engineering at Texas A & M University before returning here to head a construction firm. "We understand all too well that the Panama Canal needs to remain efficient, safe and reliable for shippers, and that we need to give high-quality service to our customers."
But for the East Asian countries that are increasingly large users of the canal as their trade with Latin America and the United States expands at a double-digit annual pace, the issue is more than just one of dollars and cents. Eager to gain a foothold in the region, China in particular has strategic and political interests at stake.
Its archrival, Taiwan, has diplomatic relations with all of the Central American countries and has forged a particularly close relationship with Panama.
Taiwanese companies, for instance, have signed agreements to build an industrial park outside Colon, near the former United States submarine base that Taiwan's flourishing Evergreen Shipping Group is converting into a container terminal.
"Other shipping lines worry that when the canal goes over to Panamanian control, they are going to be second fiddle to Evergreen, or at least that is what I hear," said Don M. Bosco, an American lawyer who is president of the Nicaraguan consortium. "Whether that's real or imagined, I don't know, but I do know that shipping from mainland China has expanded tremendously in the last 10 years."
Lee Teng-hui, the President of Taiwan, is among the leaders who have been invited to take part in a conference here next summer about the future of the Panama Canal, and has already indicated he will attend. China, though the third-biggest user of the canal, has not been invited and has managed only to get Panama to agree to open companion trade offices here and in Beijing.

Concern From Asia At Taiwan's Clout
In what was seen as an effort to match Taiwan's influence in the region, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan and President Kim Young Sam of South Korea made official visits to Central America this summer.
In addition, the Japan Container Association, the Port of Tianjin Authority, China Merchants Holding Ltd. of Hong Kong and the China Marine and Seamen Service Corporation are members of the "operations consortium" supporting the Nicaraguan rail project, for which a feasibility study is under way.
An Asian diplomat in the region said: "In today's world there is no real difference between the political and the commercial. Taiwan has $100 billion in foreign reserves and has used that to gain political leverage and advantage. Beijing can see that, doesn't like it and worries that it will be frozen out of the picture unless it has allies."
With the corruption and repression of the Noriega era in mind, Panama's rivals also appear to be playing on concerns about political stability here. Since the signing of the Panama Canal treaties in 1977, the canal has been run as a nonprofit American Government agency, with a binational board of directors approved by the United States Senate.

A Debate Over Use Of Canal Income
But at noon on Dec. 31, 1999, control of the canal and the last of the American military bases in the former Canal Zone are to pass to the Government of Panama. Already some Panamanian politicians have suggested that part of the canal revenues should be diverted into Government projects rather than reinvested in the canal, and that the watershed and surrounding jungle be made available to poor Panamanians.
Mr. Aleman vowed that would not happen and promised that the canal would be run as impartially and efficiently as it always had. "This is an ongoing operation," he said, "and we are not going to be stopping in the year 2000 and shifting gears."
Nevertheless, how Panama intends to administer the canal "is a source of concern as we go forward" toward the turnover, Mr. Keegan of Sea-Land said. "We are hearing all the right things" from the Panamanian Government, he added, "but time will have to show us."
Hoping to take advantage of that transition and the uncertainties that it has begun to generate among shippers, every country in Spanish-speaking Central America has floated at least one plan to build an alternative to the Panama Canal.

'These Are All Very Old Schemes'
In Costa Rica, the Parliament in 1992 approved construction of a 250-mile rail line to run near the Nicaraguan border -- but has done nothing since. In El Salvador, the port commission has recommended construction of a 225-mile container rail system with neighboring Honduras, to run between the Gulf of Fonseca and Puerto Cortes on the Caribbean.
Guatemalan business interests have come forward with a $1 billion plan to revive moribund trans-isthmus rail lines in that country, first built for banana producers.
Colombia, which fumed helplessly when Panama seceded as part of a Washington-sponsored rebellion 93 years ago and continues to resent that loss, has even more ambitious ideas. President Ernesto Samper has called for construction of a full-scale, navigable interoceanic canal through the Darien region in the country's isolated and sparsely populated northwestern corner.
Even in Mexico there has been talk of building a "dry canal" across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in the southern part of the country.
But the eruption of two leftist guerrilla insurgencies in that region and natural geographic barriers make potential investors and rivals as skeptical of the prospects of that proposal as they are of most of the others.
"These are all very old schemes, and no, I don't really take any of them seriously," Mr. Aleman said during a recent interview in his office here, overlooking the busy waterway.
But when pressed, he acknowledged that Panama could thank an accident of history for its advantage over Nicaragua and that the competition this time might yet prove equally fierce.
In the late 19th century, American business executives actually began building a canal across Nicaragua, and a Congressional commission favored that route because it would require less digging than a canal across Panama. The Panamanians eventually won the day, though, by arguing that their route was safer and by producing a Nicaraguan postage stamp showing an erupting volcano as proof.
"We beat the Nicaraguans by a stamp," Mr. Aleman said with a smile.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Locks in the Panama Canal, a waterway that has impediments to meeting modern shipping needs, including engineering limitations and maintenance problems. It will need new locks early in the next century. (Reuters) (pg. 16)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Competition for The Canal" shows a map of central America describing proposals by various countries to provide competition to the Panama Canal. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (60%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

COMPANY: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA CANAL AND CANAL ZONE; CHINA; TAIWAN; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; NICARAGUA; PANAMA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS CANALS & WATERWAYS (91%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996



255 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Green Light Caper

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Returning from Richard Nixon's funeral on Air Force One, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott told National Security Adviser Tony Lake that Croatia had asked our ambassador for approval to smuggle Iranian arms into Bosnia -- thereby breaking the embargo foolishly agreed to by the U.S. and its allies.
State's notion was a deniable double-cross, kept secret from the oversight committees of Congress: give the Croats a green light, and never mind the influence Iran would gain on the European continent. 
 Lake circumvented the Defense Department and C.I.A. by going into the President's cabin and getting Clinton's personal approval to instruct our ambassador to pretend he had "no instructions."
This put the President in the position of telling the American public that we could not break the embargo for fear of endangering the lives of our British and French allies -- while encouraging a third party to endanger their lives.
Maybe Talbott, Lake and Clinton naively thought the green light could be kept secret from our allies, our own Government and the press. But the C.I.A. officials on the scene soon detected the widespread smuggling, and worried -- quite properly -- that a covert action was under way.
C.I.A. asked and was misled by State. The Joint Chiefs were kept in the dark. When The L.A. Times broke the story this spring, Mr. Clinton slipped past his tacit approval and held that "there was absolutely nothing improper done."
Congress investigated. House Intelligence oversight last month condemned the end run by State as having "recklessly endangered American lives" and asked that Justice examine false testimony for criminal action.
The bipartisan Senate Select Intelligence Committee waited until the election was over before issuing a report agonizing over whether the knowing deception of our allies, the world press and our own armed forces constituted a "covert action." That would have required a "finding" signed by the President and transmitted in timely fashion to Congress.
Most senators on the committee tut-tutted about the Administration's public lying. They were irritated at the Intelligence Oversight Board's refusal to share its internal report, and criticized the bureaucratic infighting and Administration trickiness in putting no deliberations on such a serious matter in writing. But was the green light a "covert action" or merely "traditional diplomatic activity"? The committee was ambivalent.
The one dumb line in the Senate committee report was that the consequences of the secret green light were "on one level, a complete success" -- that is, the flow of Iranian arms discouraged the Serbs from attacking the Muslims.
Some "success": to this day, the U.S. has been constrained from taking over the arming of Bosnian Muslims because Iran's friend is their deputy Defense Minister. Our strategy of sending $400 million worth of weapons to preserve the Bosnian balance of power has been stymied by this "complete success."
What is bad about this intelligence argument between our branches is that it is about legalities and not realities. Forget about criminality here. Ask instead: In Clinton's covert flashing of the green light, was "absolutely nothing improper" done, as he insists?
If that is what Talbott, Lake and Clinton believe, the necessary nonpartisan comity between the branches on intelligence will give way to further mistrust, tighter laws and insistence on prosecution.
Diplomacy is not missionary work, to paraphrase a devotee of deviousness. But to betray allies, to lie to the American public, to deceive the Pentagon and to mislead Congress in one fell swoop is wrong and counterproductive and must not be repeated.
Trust counts. The New York Times's Chris Hedges reports now that Muslim nations are smuggling heavy arms into Bosnia; does anybody believe the State Department denial?
And the President says post-election "it is conceivable that we could participate" in keeping our forces in Bosnia long beyond the promised year. Does anybody believe that is not a done deal?
Breaking faith has its consequences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; IRAN; UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPE (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM RICHARD NIXON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



256 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Stresses Trade, Planting a Tree in Israel

BYLINE: By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: MODIIN, Israel, Nov. 10

 BODY:
As Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey planted a tree here this afternoon that she said symbolized life in the rocky soil of a new forest here, Israeli soldiers faced angry Palestinians just three miles away in the West Bank after a deadly clash over disputed land.
The coincidence was symbolic of the undertones accompanying Governor Whitman's six-day trade mission to Israel, which has taken her beyond the problems of state government and into the raw conflicts of the Middle East. 
 Since arriving in Israel last Friday as the head of a delegation of business leaders and university officials from New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman has said that she had come to encourage trade and investment between New Jersey and Israel, and to strengthen economic, scientific and cultural links between the two governments.
In public statements and appearances before Israeli business leaders, the Governor and her aides have repeated that Israel is New Jersey's sixth largest trading partner, buying almost $750 million worth of its products, especially transportation and electronic equipment and indusrial machinery. Thirty Israeli companies have invested in New Jersey, the two sides have a sister-state agreement and a New Jersey trade office operates in the Israeli town of Raanana, north of Tel Aviv.
Today, the Governor discussed further business ties in a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and signed the first of three economic memorandums of understanding with Israel -- an agreement with the Minister of Trade and Industry, Natan Sharansky, to promote joint research and development projects in high technology fields like computers, software and medical tecnhology.
In a series of planned business meetings, the New Jersey delegation will try to market, among other goods, telecommunications and security technologies to the Israeli army.
But for all the economic activity, Mrs. Whitman also seemed to be sending a distinct political message of support for Israel that could not fail to resonate with Jewish voters back home who gave her relatively few votes in the 1993 gubernatorial election.
The Governor has acknowledged that her interest in Israel stems not only from economic ties but also from the sizable Jewish population in New Jersey, two of whose members have died in bombings in Israel and the Gaza Strip. She plans to visit a memorial in Raanana to Alisa Flatow, a student from West Orange, N.J., who was killed in an attack in April 1995.
But Mrs. Whitman has studiously avoided depicting her trip as an attempt to court the Jewish vote.
Sitting next to Prime Minister Netanyahu against a background of Israeli flags today, the Governor was asked by a reporter whether she was sending a signal to her Jewish constituents. "Anything I do and anywhere I go is, I guess, a signal to somebody somewhere," she replied to the applause of the delegation.
However, Arab-American leaders in New Jersey have voiced concerns over the Governor's plans to visit the Israeli-held Golan Heights and an Israeli archeological tunnel running near Muslim shrines on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. The opening of a new exit to the tunnel by the Israelis in September set off three days of deadly clashes between Israeli and Palestinian forces in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Today, Governor Whitman said she had not yet decided whether to go ahead with the visit to the tunnel, which she has characterized as a purely private tour of a historic site. Her aides now say a back ailment, diagnosed as a herniated disk, nd a tight schedule may prevent Mrs. Whitman from making the trip.
As for a planned army-escorted tour of the Golan Heights, a plateau captured from Syria in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war and later annexed by Israel, the Governor appeared to have no qualms. "It is part of Israel at this point in time," she said. "It is, yes, a part that is being negotiated, but the facts of the administration of the Golan are very clear right now, and it certainly is important to understanding the whole future and what is being discussed right now for the State of Israel."
The Governor and her aides have also had to explain the absence of any planned meetings with the Palestinian Authority, now a common stop during visits here by foreign dignitaries. They reply that New Jersey has no history of trade with the Palestinian areas, while Israel is a major export market, but they promised to meet Palestinian Authority officials in the United States.
Other elements of Mrs. Whitman's agenda have been carefully balanced to reflect the diversity of opinion in Israel. After meeting Mr. Netanyhau, she made a pilgrimage to the grave of the assassinated prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin, and went on to meet the leader of the opposition Labor party, former Prime Minister Shimon Peres.
At Mr. Rabin's grave at the Mount Herzl cemetery in Jerusalem, Mrs. Whitman and her husband, John, stood for a long moment of silence, gazing at the basalt-and-limestone tomb on which she had placed a stone in keeping with Jewish custom.
This, the Governor said, was "a symbolic gesture, being one with earth, and one with the past and future of Israel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As a Russian immigrant played music from "Fiddler on the Roof," Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey visited Modiin, Israel, yesterday. She planted a tree in Modiin, which is three miles from the West Bank. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; NEW JERSEY; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); JEWS; ARAB-AMERICANS ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARAB AMERICANS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ARMIES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%); 

PERSON: GREENBERG, JOEL; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



257 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: A 10,000-Year-Old Site Yields Trove of Data in Florida

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

 BODY:
Finding what they are calling a 10,000-year-old underwater time capsule, scientists at the University of Florida think they have caught a rare glimpse of how people in North America responded to the last catastrophic climate change, at the end of the most recent Ice Age.
With the onset of warmer temperatures, their world changed all around them. As distant glaciers melted, the sea rose and encroached on their land. The savanna they once knew in what is now the Southeastern United States turned to thick forest, depriving them of familiar resources and offering new ones. And the mammoths and mastodons they hunted vanished. 
 Forced to give up big-game hunting, these Paleo-Indians looked for other food and settled into less nomadic lives. They began living in villages, developing new stone and bone tools and a variety of wooden implements. Adversity seemed to have stimulated innovation.
This moment of transition from the Ice Age to today's climate is unusually well preserved at a site in the Florida Panhandle, at the Aucilla River south of Tallahassee and near the town of Perry. The site was discovered by paleontologists and archeologists led by Dr. David Webb, an anthropology professor at the University of Florida in Gainesville.
Dr. Webb said the site appeared to have been a village by a pond, where people lived for only a few generations about 10,000 years ago. Then rising water levels probably flooded the village and sealed the remains under a protective layer of clay. There they remained undisturbed until now, and the clay seal was so tight that a surprising number of wooden artifacts survived.
These pieces, including what appear to be tent stakes, building poles and part of a canoe, are among the earliest preserved wooden artifacts. At most archeological sites of this age, such wooden materials have usually decayed long before.
"We are especially impressed by the density and diversity of all the artifacts," Dr. Webb said in an interview on Saturday.
Mark Muniz, a graduate student excavating and analyzing the site, said that radiocarbon dates showed that the settlement's existence was confined to a few generations and was never reoccupied later.
"Having such a short time period gives the rare opportunity to reconstruct how a specific group of Paleo-Indians in time were living and what they were manufacturing," Mr. Muniz said. "And this is such an extraordinarily rich accumulation that it feels as if we're excavating right on their front porch."
Dr. Dennis Stanford, an anthropologist at the Smithsonian Institution, who specializes in Paleo-Indian cultures, agreed that the site could provide an incomparable picture of people adjusting to severe climate change, moving from Ice Age big-game hunting to a more settled life and diverse economy. Similar patterns have been detected in excavations in Texas, though those remains are not nearly as well preserved.
The new discovery, Dr. Stanford said, "sounds pretty exciting" and should yield many new insights into this critical period.
At the time, Paleo-Indians on the North American plains were still hunting large game like bison. In the Middle East, people were also beginning to settle into villages and experiment with growing crops and domesticating animals for food.
The Flordia archeologists found the new site by excavating the west bank of the Aucilla River at a water depth of about 15 feet. Before the end of the Ice Age, the Florida landscape was much drier, as determined by pollen samples, and the peninsula was nearly twice its present size. The village site was nearly 100 miles from the coast then, compared to its present distance of five miles from the Gulf of Mexico.
So far, the archeologists have found that a large but uncounted number of people lived close together in the village, in contrast to the nomadic ways of only a few generations before. Around an intact hearth were remains of past meals, including a roasted turtle bone. Arrowheads and spear points made of flint -- but unlike the Clovis-style points of earlier big-game hunters -- were uncovered, as well as stone tools.
Dr. Webb estimated that the artifact density at this site is at least 20 times greater than in lower layers representing occupations by earlier people. The excavations are supported in part by the National Geographic Society.
Brinnen Carter, another graduate student studying the site, said the evidence showed these people to be learning how to survive on smaller animals and different plants. "Essentially, they were the first humans that weren't big-game hunters," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two University of Florida researchers, Brinnen Carter and Mark Muniz, with artifacts that were found preserved in a layer of clay in the Florida panhandle near the town of Perry, south of Tallahassee, in the Aucilla River. The 10,000-year-old implements revealed details about life at the end of the last Ice Age. (Ray Carson)
 
Map of Florida shows the location of Perry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; TALLAHASSEE (FLA); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PALEONTOLOGY; ICE AGE; WEATHER COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); SPORT HUNTING (74%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (61%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE DAVID P WEBB (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



258 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: New Approach to Overhauling Health Insurance: Step by Step

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
Mindful of lessons learned in the last four years, President Clinton and his aides are developing incremental proposals to fill gaps in health insurance coverage, Administration officials said.
The proposals, to help provide coverage for some of the nation's 10 million uninsured children and to help pay premiums for workers who are between jobs, look more feasible now because medical costs are coming under control. 
 The initiatives are part of what promises to be a full agenda of health care legislation in the next Congress.
Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said in an interview last week that the Administration would try to expand coverage step by step, rather than by proposing a grand scheme to redesign the health care system. Mr. Clinton suffered his biggest political defeat when Congress in 1994 rejected his plan to guarantee health insurance for all Americans. The Administration has not decided how ambitious its new proposals will be, so it does not know how much they will cost and has not decided how to pay for them.
But Chris Jennings, a White House aide who coordinates health policy, said in a recent interview that the efforts would be carried out "in the context of a balanced budget."
The proposals on coverage for children come in response to recent studies showing an increase in the number of uninsured children and a gradual decline in the proportion of youngsters covered by private health insurance in recent years.
The Administration is considering two approaches. One is to make sure that all eligible children enroll in Medicaid, the Federal-state health program for low-income people. Nearly three million uninsured youngsters are entitled to Medicaid, but not enrolled.
The other approach is to help families buy private insurance for children who do not qualify for Medicaid.
A sharp reduction in health care inflation and in the rate of growth of Medicaid makes these and other proposals look financially feasible.
Pamela G. Bailey, president of the Health Care Leadership Council, composed of top executives from the industry, said: "Health cost increases have come under control. Filling the gaps in access to care will be a more affordable proposition in 1997 than it was in the 1980's, when employers were seeing health costs increase 20 percent a year."
The Administration will also propose legislation to control Medicare costs, by curbing payments to doctors and hospitals. In his re-election campaign, Mr. Clinton repeatedly accused Republicans of trying to destroy Medicare and said he would preserve it without increasing costs for the beneficiaries, who are elderly or disabled.
Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said Republicans would wait for the President to submit a detailed proposal before they take action on Medicare next year.
The President's efforts to expand coverage build on a new Federal law that will make health insurance more readily available to millions of people who change jobs or lose their jobs.
The law, pushed through Congress by Senators Nancy Landon Kassebaum and Edward M. Kennedy, does not regulate the price of insurance, which can easily exceed $300 a month and may reach $700 a month for a family of four in New York City. Accordingly, the Administration has devised a proposal to help pay health insurance premiums for up to six months for workers who are between jobs.
Mr. Jennings, the White House aide, said this "worker transition initiative" could help three million people a year, including 700,000 children.
Administration officials say they have been astonished by the slowdown in Medicaid costs. Medicaid grew an average of 17 percent a year from 1990 to 1995, and the Congressional Budget Office had been predicting growth of 10 percent a year from 1996 through 2002.
But in the fiscal year that ended six weeks ago, Federal Medicaid spending grew just 3 percent, perhaps because of greater use of managed care. Medicaid is so big, with Federal costs exceeding $90 billion a year, that even a modest reduction in the rate of growth produces huge savings, and the Administration wants to use some of those savings for its new health care initiatives.
A grab-bag of other health care issues will be waiting for the new Congress. The White House is working on a proposal to make it easier for small businesses to buy health insurance for their workers through voluntary purchasing coalitions. And the Labor Department is developing proposals to protect retiree health benefits, which many employers have cut or tried to cut.
In addition, health care executives expect numerous efforts by lawmakers from both parties to regulate health maintenance organizations.
Administration officials said they would renew their effort to prevent H.M.O.'s from limiting what doctors may tell patients about treatment options. Mr. Clinton recently denounced such "gag rules."
Some lawmakers also want to outlaw outpatient mastectomies, just as they required insurers to cover at least 48 hours of hospital care for new mothers and their babies.
"Congress is going to continue its march toward becoming the nation's benefits manager, following the precedent of the mandates it imposed this year," said James A. Klein, president of the Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans, a trade group composed mainly of Fortune 500 companies. "Congress has rejected the idea that employers must provide health insurance to employees. But if employers do provide coverage, Congress will specify how it should be designed."
President Clinton has said he will appoint a panel of experts to recommend ways of protecting consumers against changes in the health care industry that threaten the quality of care. Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said the panel would examine "the rapid growth of managed care and H.M.O.'s."
Labor union leaders said they would submit evidence to the panel showing that cutbacks in nursing personnel had damaged the quality of care at many hospitals. "We can provide dozens of examples of the human toll" of such cutbacks, said Kit Costello, president of the California Nurses Association.
The effort to help children is buttressed by a recent report from the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress.
"The number of children without health insurance coverage was greater in 1994 than at any time in the last eight years," the accounting office said. "In 1994, the percentage of children under 18 years old without any health insurance coverage reached its highest level since 1987 -- 14.2 percent, or 10 million children who were uninsured." In addition, the report said, the proportion of children with private coverage decreased every year from 1989 to 1994.
The situation appeared to improve slightly last year. Preliminary data from the Census Bureau show that the number of uninsured children dipped in 1995 to 9.8 million, or 13.8 percent of all youngsters. But the increase was less than might have been expected in a strong economy, with more than a million new jobs, because many companies cut back coverage for children and spouses of employees.
The General Accounting Office said there were several possible explanations for the fact that eligible uninsured children were not enrolled in Medicaid:
*Some parents do not realize that their children may qualify, even if the parents work full time.
*"Getting enrolled in Medicaid is difficult for low-income families," many of whom are turned down because they fail to comply with procedural requirements.
*Some families see Medicaid as a welfare program and do not want to be stigmatized as relying on welfare.
For their part, state Medicaid officials want to be able to require the use of H.M.O.'s without getting permission from the Federal Government. Many states have received Federal approval, but state officials resent having to go through lengthy negotiations with the Federal Government.
Efforts to provide insurance for children, like many health care issues, raise complex technical questions.
Under current law, the Federal Government and the states share the cost of Medicaid. States have discretion over eligibility. Some deny coverage for children under the age of 6 if their family income is more than 33 percent above the Federal poverty level, while other states cover children with family income up to three times the poverty level.
Federal officials say they want to be sure that states do not cut back Medicaid eligibility if the Federal Government offers new forms of assistance to uninsured children. Through such cutbacks, states could substitute Federal dollars for state money.
Some state officials express concerns about the fairness and equity of any new program. It would be unfair, they say, for the Federal Government to provide more generous subsidies for the purchase of health insurance in states that have chosen to be stingy in spending their own money on child health and Medicaid.
Just three days before Congress adjourned, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Kennedy introduced a bill to provide Federal money to the states to subsidize premiums for children with family incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid. The amount of the subsidy would be reduced as a family's income increased.
"The problem of uninsured children is getting worse, not better," Mr. Kerry said.

GRAPHIC: Map/Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Uninsured Children in the U.S." shows percentage of children under 18 who were uninsured in 1995, state-by-state. Graph tracks nationwide percentage, from 1987 through 1995. (Source: Census Data) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; MEDICAID; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (78%); POLITICS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



259 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: The Harder Struggle to Make and Market Black Films

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, "Set It Off," a bank-heist caper starring Queen Latifah, opened across the country. The story of four black women who clean office buildings by day and rob banks by night, it did $9 million at the box office in its first four days.
The film got strong reviews in newspapers, including a four-star rave in The Chicago Sun-Times and a favorable review in Entertainment Weekly. But if the film, which cost $9.5 million to make, brings a strong profit to New Line Pictures, it will be the exception rather than the rule. 
 "Set It Off" was directed by F. Gary Gray, who is black and whose crew was roughly 40 percent black. Moreover, it is what Jesse Rhines, author of "Black Film/ White Money," calls "a film that comes out of the African-American culture and presents a point of view that is a product of that culture."
 Mr. Rhines defines black films by saying their "director, writer and producer should be black, but certainly the director."
Despite the fact that black actors are moving increasingly into leading roles in mainstream movies, and the fact that blacks, while only 12 percent of the population, buy 25 percent of movie tickets, some experts agree with Mr. Rhines: "It has not gotten any easier than it was a decade ago to make culturally authentic films."
The casualty rate for all films is high -- 7 of 10 lose money. But executives who have tried to raise money for films that come out of the black culture say it remains especially difficult to get financing for those films, and so the chances of even getting that viewpoint before the public are as slim as they ever were.
Dale Pollock, producer of "Set It Off," said it took five years to raise the money for the movie, which was written and directed by blacks. In his view, studios resisted an action film that featured four black women. "Studio executives worried that women would not come to see an action film and the urban male audience would not go to a women's action film." He and the director persevered because, he said, "we believed it was a universal story that ultimately transcended race and a female buddy movie."
Bob Johnson, chairman of BET Holdings Inc., which owns Black Entertainment Television, the cable service, said he believed that both the culture and the economics of the film business were still serious hurdles to black film makers.
"Films are made by people who want to tell a particular story," Mr. Johnson said. "If you go to the studios with a story about blacks, often the white guy may say that is not a story he wants to tell. People tend to get involved with stories they know. A studio says: we are going to make 25 films a year. Take 15 off the table for bread-and- butter films, then there are 10 films left, and a guy may make some films with people he has cut deals with before." The number available for black movies is reduced further by "projects he wants to make," and so when the last choices are made, the decision is often limited to the one that "sounds like it will work better for a white audience."
Another problem has been the difficulty in recouping production costs from foreign markets, which account for roughly 50 percent of all box office dollars. As Robert Shaye, chairman of New Line Cinema, explained it, "For niche films, the international market has been harder to crack."
Despite those problems, there are now signs of change that may make it easier for films stemming from the black culture to find a broader audience.
One important sign of change was the recent effort that Mr. Johnson himself participated in, the financing of the $2.4 million production of "Get on the Bus," Spike Lee's film about the Million Man March. All 15 members of the group were black, including the actors Will Smith and Danny Glover, as well as less prominent figures, like Lem Daniels, a Merrill Lynch stockbroker.
Despite stunning reviews, that film, which opened Oct. 16, has proved somewhat of a disappointment at the box office, having taken in only $5.5 million through last week. Reuben Cannon, who heads his own production company and arranged the fund-raising meeting for "Get on the Bus," believes that "black audiences support films in which they are represented, but the young people like broad comedy or excessive action."
"If you make a straight drama about the black experience," he continued, "it is outside that normal portrayal, and that audience is less likely to see the film."
Spike Lee said he felt that people mistakenly perceived his latest film as a documentary rather than entertainment. He is also upset that the soundtrack, a key marketing tool, was released only a week before the film opened.
In general, marketing for most films has been a problem, in the view of Ivan Juzang, the founder of Me Productions, whose company handled "Set It Off" and specializes in marketing films to the black community. He said that studios often did not understand that "the decision-making for black audiences to go to a movie is entirely different than for mainstream audiences."
"Word of mouth, and activities in the community, have more credibility than TV advertising with kids, who are crucial in opening a film and generating the word of mouth," he said. "Mainstream media, like TV, is discounted because ultimately young black people know they don't control that medium."
Despite the obstacles, investors in "Get on the Bus," who put up their money last March, recovered their investment plus interest by October, when Sony bought the rights to the film. Now Mr. Cannon hopes the group will finance more films. "There are stories that we have to tell, and we have to pay for it ourselves," he said.
To be sure, some films have already broken the action-comedy mold. The most dazzling example was "Waiting to Exhale," the story of four black women searching for romantic happiness, which took in $67 million at the box office. Though the film did have some crossover audience, the vast majority of viewers were black women, according to an executive at 20th Century Fox, which distributed the film. The executive, who declined to be identified, said, "The reaction shows that if a movie interested the audience, they would come out en masse to it."
In the future, it may get somewhat easier to reach that audience. Ken Lombard, president of Magic Johnson Theaters, a partnership with Sony Pictures that builds movie theaters in predominantly black neighborhoods, said another major problem for black films has been distribution.
"Certain communities are underscreened," Mr. Lombard said, adding that his group hoped to change that. So far the partnership has built theaters with 200 screens, including three 12-screen multiplexes -- in Harlem; in Jamaica Hills, Queens, and in Baldwin Hills, Calif.
"Our philosophy is to play everything, but obviously we feel that there is certain product geared to the minority audience," Mr. Lombard said.
A similar strategy prompted Mr. Johnson of BET to begin a pay-TV movie service aimed at the black market. "The way you get more black films made," Mr. Johnson said. "is if there are more revenue streams that can benefit those films. If Magic Johnson can put more multiplexes in the core inner cities, you will find a revenue stream coming off that market."
BET's service will carry films that feature a black actor in a leading or dominant role or try to address black life styles.
"We would like the films to be produced and directed by blacks, but the universe of such films is still too small," Mr. Johnson said. As to his potential pay-TV audience, "there are 25 million pay cable homes," Mr. Johnson said. "Our numbers show that 20 percent of the pay universe are black homes. That is our target. We think they will pay between $5.50 and $7.50 a month for the service. That is a significant revenue stream."
But for Mr. Lee, there is still a long road ahead. "We are really not going to get power in this industry until we are in the positions where the power lies -- that is, the people who green-light pictures and the people that market them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Set It Off," a new movie directed by F. Gary Gray, left, concerns women who take a turn at robbing banks. Counting money on the hood of a car, above, from left, are Vivica Fox, Queen Latifah, Kimberly Elise and Jada Pinkett. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BET HOLDINGS INC (62%); BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (58%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BLACKS; FINANCES WRITERS (90%); BANK ROBBERY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); WOMEN (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); MEN (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE QUEEN LATIFAH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



260 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Computers Help Unite Campuses but Also Drive Some Students Apart

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

DATELINE: HANOVER, N.H.

 BODY:
Through a plug in his dorm room, Arthur Desrosiers, a Dartmouth College sophomore, pursues all the preoccupations of undergraduate life without leaving his chair: he questions professors, fishes for dates, browses the library catalogue, orders in pizza and engages in 2 A.M. bull sessions on the meaning of it all.
Using the campus E-mail system, known as Blitzmail, he sometimes trades a series of back-and-forth messages with his two roommates -- even though they are sitting just a few feet away. 
 "I guess you could say you're pretty addicted if you're having a long Blitzmail conversation with your roommate, and you happen to be sitting right there in the same room," Mr. Desrosiers said.
Anyone who has not visited a college campus lately might be in for a jolt. Across the country, computer networks are cinching even tighter the already inward-looking communities typical of campuses, transforming the social and academic life of today's students.
Dormitory lounges are being carved up for clusters of computers, student unions are declining as gathering places, and computer-wired dorm rooms are becoming, in some cases, high-tech caves. Some scholars say "plug per pillow" campuses are undermining the ideal of a residential college as a melting pot where people from different social and regional backgrounds meet.
Prof. James Banning, an environmental psychologist at Colorado State University who surveyed some 100 university housing officers last year, remarked: "Universities are saying: 'Oh, my God, they're in their rooms. How can we ever build a sense of community in this building if they don't come out?"
Dartmouth, one of the most academically competitive colleges in the country, has long had a reputation for encouraging computer use by students. It now has the distinction of being one of the most E-mail-intensive, delivering about 250,000 electronic messages a day to 5,000 students and 3,000 faculty and staff members, or more than 30 messages apiece.
At public terminals all over the campus (to keep students from having to return to their rooms), 5 to 10 students line up as if at a cash machine, observing rules of Blitzmail etiquette like not reading over the shoulder of the person at the screen. In the Thayer dining hall recently, Stephanie Waddell, a senior studio art major, read a Blitz request from a male friend that began, "Need a date."
James Hunnicutt, a junior English major who was next in line, received five messages from his mother in Charlotte, N.C., asking about his law-school plans, a note from a high-school girlfriend at a college in Oregon and a message from his roommate vetoing the idea of a party in their room.
Most students say Blitzmail is convenient and indispensable on campus and gives them an easy way to stay in touch with family and high school friends. But Mark Shahinian, a junior history major, complained that it encouraged on-line electronic bantering while inhibiting meaningful communication.
He compared Blitzmail relationships to the brief encounters typical of those at fraternity parties, which play a big role on the isolated New Hampshire campus. "Blitzmail has a bit of that casualness -- knowing a lot of people but not all that well," he said.
Computer technology has come to higher education in many forms, including World Wide Web sites where art professors create digitized galleries; custom software for teaching human anatomy, and "smart" classrooms with a computer for each student to teach engineering or writing.
After building momentum for a decade, the wired campus has reached critical mass, said Kenneth C. Green, the director of the Campus Computing Survey, which collects data annually from 650 colleges and universities.
More than half of all residential campuses in the United States have network connections in dormitory rooms, according to the latest survey, released this year. The number of classes using E-mail to supplement academic discussions and professors' office hours grew to 20 percent in 1995 from 8 percent in 1994.
Mr. Green, a visiting scholar at the Claremont Graduate School, said that even though there were "a lot of questions about the pedagogical value" of computer technology, academia had largely accepted it, and that there were apparently no efforts to counter any antisocial side effects.
Paradoxically, it is electronic mail, one of the most mundane and least-examined of computer applications, that is probably having the most profound effect on campuses.
"E-mail is like the god of every college student," said Abigail Butler, who graduated from Vassar College this year with a major in French and political science. "People probably spend easily three hours a day sending and receiving messages. It's the No. 1 way that romances go on at colleges. It's like the dating game on line."
Jeremy Edberg, an undergraduate at the University of California at Berkeley who said he spent 10 hours a day on line, said that almost all his conversations with professors were now by E-mail. Just about the only time he visits them in person, he said, is to try to persuade them to change a grade.
"Students don't meet at rathskellers and hamburger joints and in dorm rooms anymore," said Clifford Stoll, a former researcher at Harvard University and the author of "Silicon Snake Oil: Second Thoughts on the Information Highway" (Doubleday, 1995.) "Instead, they poke their heads into computers."
"We're turning colleges into a cubicle-directed electronic experience and denying the importance of learning to work closely with other students and professors, and developing social adeptness," Mr. Stoll said.
Professor Banning, the scholar studying dorm life, said that since going to Colorado State in 1978, he had noticed that students were spending more time in their rooms. A once-crowded restaurant across from the residence halls closed three years ago and has not reopened.
But the image of students sitting trancelike in front of computers, cut off from life, is exaggerated, other experts say. "A certain sector of undergraduates, especially adolescent males," has always focused obsessively on narrow interests, said Steven W. Gilbert, the director of technology projects for the American Association for Higher Education. "Sometimes it's fixing hot rods. Sometimes it's the Internet. I would bet you wouldn't find any more doing it now than 20 years ago."
To judge by a recent Friday night at Dartmouth, Blitzmail has hardly killed off rathskellers and other gathering places. There were good crowds at Queer Club, a dance presented by the campus gay and lesbian alliance, and off campus at the Dirt Cowboy Cafe, where students sipped carrot juice and cappuccinos.
At the same time, many dorm room windows emitted a bluish glow, the light of a computer screen with a student's head buried in it. A few students said Blitzmail contributed to a feeling of alienation.
Enthusiasts of E-mail praise it as a virtual office system in which students can question professors about courses at any time.
David G. Brown, the provost of Wake Forest University and a professor of economics, said that E-mail had not isolated him from students.
"Because we're in communication every day," he said, "we feel that we're a group ready to help one another, not only over the network but in person."
This fall, Wake Forest, a private university with 3,700 undergraduates in Winston-Salem, N.C., distributed I.B.M. laptop computers to all its approximately 940 freshmen, paid for with part of a $3,000 tuition increase. It is part of a sweeping Wake Forest plan to use network technology to change the ways students work and communicate.
Professor Brown's freshman economics seminar is already a paperless course that students attend with their laptop computers, which are all linked together. The professor might ask them to write a one-sentence summary of an economic topic like opportunity cost, what is given up when a choice is made, then electronically forward it to the others.
For homework, he might have students search the Internet for a news article demonstrating opportunity cost, write a short essay about it and then send it to him by E-mail with a picture obtained from the Louvre museum Web site demonstrating opportunity cost. Back in class, essays and pictures spark discussion.
There is concern that the unequal distribution of technology between rich and poor campuses will create a system of computer haves and have-nots. Public universities and two-year community colleges are typically less wired because of the high costs. Bringing fiber-optic cable into dormitories and faculty offices for a network can cost millions of dollars. Fitting a classroom with 20 computers and a projection system costs as much as $100,000.
But the highest-tech learning of all -- the delivery of lectures over computer screens or cable television, called distance learning -- is the subject of the most serious experimentation at cash-strapped public universities. The American Federation of Teachers, in a report this year critical of the sterility of distance learning, noted, "All our experience as educators tells us that teaching and learning in the shared human spaces of a campus are essential to the undergraduate experience."
The nature of those shared spaces seems to be changing.
At Vassar, students using screen names chat electronically with software called Broadcast.
"One woman, an English major, met a physics major who quoted Shakespeare to her, and it was love at first Broadcast," said Ms. Butler, the recent Vassar graduate, who was known on the network as Snow White. "I've also known people who sat home Friday and Saturday nights, Broadcasting back and forth to people they know only by nicknames, while the rest of the world was going by.
"After a while, it starts to be really unfulfilling," she said. "Every Broadcast conversation with someone new is the same for the first 20 messages, finding out who they are. It's easier to just meet someone. You learn how much of a difference it makes to see someone in person and actually talk to them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On many college campuses, E-mail has become as essential to student life as midnight pizza. Students at Dartmouth waited recently to use a public computer terminal so they could check their messages. (Jon G. Fox for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ELECTRONIC MAIL STUDENT HOUSING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP ARTHUR DESROSIERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



261 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2820 words

HEADLINE: WALL STREET WITHOUT WALLS -- A special report.;
Slow Transition for Investing: Stock Market Meets Internet

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Despite the millions of dollars that Wall Street spends each year on computers and high-tech gadgetry, in many ways its business has not changed much since the 18th century, when brokers gathered under a buttonwood tree to buy and sell shares.
But all of a sudden, innovations in technology, particularly the linkage of computers known as the Internet, are bringing profound changes to Wall Street that hold a lot of promise -- and a lot of peril -- for the powerful firms that make their money in the securities business. 
 And these changes -- in everything from how a new company raises money to how an amateur investor buys a share of stock -- will affect, for both good and ill, the pocketbooks of millions of Americans who participate in the financial system simply by saving for retirement, starting a small business or switching among mutual funds.
For many people, the Internet could replace the functions of a broker, whose stock in trade is information, advice and execution of transactions, all of which may be cheap and easy to find on line. The technology also is prompting some business executives to wonder whether they really need a high-priced Wall Street investment bank to find backers for their companies when they may now be able to reach so many potential investors directly over the Net. And ultimately, the Internet's ability to bring buyers and sellers together directly may change the very nature of American financial markets.
For Wall Street and investors, the Internet is bringing "great benefits and opportunities," said Steven M. H. Wallman, a commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. "But it also has real potential pitfalls and disadvantages."
The most obvious of these pitfalls is fraud. Con artists are already finding the Internet to be a cheap, easy way to promote fake "investment opportunities" or to promote stocks in which they have secret stakes. But there will be even more important consequences, including greater volatility in small stocks that attract on-line fan clubs and easier access to investments that may be on the level but are nevertheless ill-advised.
To be sure, the "Internet revolution" has been subject to so much promotion that skeptics are starting to dismiss it as an electronic fad.
And no one is suggesting that the rise of the Internet means that securities firms will close their offices, disconnect their telephones and do business only in cyberspace. Wall Street's suspender-clad movers and shakers will continue to strut through the corridors of Manhattan -- although behind the scenes, ponytailed computer programmers will probably increase their power.
The reason the Internet has the power to revolutionize Wall Street lies in the technology's very nature. By intricately linking millions of computers, the Internet allows individuals to find information -- and each other -- quickly and directly, without employing traditional middlemen. And Wall Street is nothing if not the ultimate middleman.
"A lot of what we do on Wall Street involves matching buyers with sellers or exchanging various forms of information," said David E. Shaw, chairman of D. E. Shaw & Company, who has made a fortune using computer technology to trade securities and is viewed as a high-tech guru inside the industry. "The Internet could make a lot of these functions faster, cheaper, safer and more accurate -- if Wall Street and its regulators can move quickly enough to take advantage of it."
Already, information that people once had to get from a broker, or that was available only to professional investors, is easy to find on the Internet. Prices, analysts' reports, even the filings companies must make with the S.E.C., can be had quickly and at little or no cost. Last month, investors checked stock prices electronically and got other information from the National Association of Securities Dealers' Internet site 2.1 million times -- in a single day.
And thousands of people trade investment advice and stock tips on the Internet. "People used to have to call a broker and ask, 'What's up with my stock?' " said David Gardner, who with his brother Tom runs the Motley Fool, one of the most popular investment sites. "Now this revolutionary information resource has popped up and liberated them."
It became possible this year to buy or sell stocks and mutual funds over the Net through brokerage firms like Charles Schwab and the upstart E Trade. Investors have already opened more than 100,000 electronic trading accounts, according to Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., which predicts there will be at least nine million in five years.
More radical experiments are springing up, especially in California, where many people work in high-tech and have been quick to embrace the Internet. Consider the following :
 *Almost a dozen small companies are trying to sell their stock directly to the public using Web sites like those run by Direct Stock Market and IPO Data Systems.
*An entertainment company and a computer company have just started selling shares electronically through IPOnet, an affiliate of the Pasadena, Calif., brokerage firm W. J. Gallagher & Company.
*And two small California companies, Real Goods Trading and Perfect Data, have set up electronic bulletin boards that allow their shareholders to trade stock without a broker, dealer or market maker.
Though these efforts are tiny, "I can see the day coming when the people who run General Motors or I.B.M. decide to do themselves a favor and provide a service to shareholders" by allowing their stocks to trade on their own Internet sites, said Junius W. Peake, a former Wall Street executive who is now a professor at the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley.

The Business
A Slow Shift Is Under Way
The Internet allows securities firms to serve their customers electronically from anywhere, and so its impact may be felt most severely in New York, where the economy is heavily dependent on the concentration of financial firms. Real estate prices and taxes are high, and the city government has given big tax breaks to firms like Morgan Stanley to keep them in the city. While there are a number of reasons for financial enterprises to cluster closely together, the Internet may make it economically more attractive for firms to put some operations elsewhere.
For all the Internet's promise, much of Wall Street has been slow to take advantage of it, even for its most basic function of advertising (the World Wide Web functions in some ways as a gigantic Yellow Pages). Even firms that have been quick to embrace the technology, like Schwab, say it is just another avenue to serve customers -- though one, like automated teller machines, that may eclipse traditional approaches.
A N.A.S.D. survey last summer found that only 15 percent of its members had a home page, though 31 percent planned to add one soon. And while 20 percent of the firms said that the Internet would be highly important in the future, a larger group of more than 30 percent rated its future importance as low.
The New York Stock Exchange is keeping secret the results of a similar survey it did early this year. But for many of its member firms, the Internet is little more than an advertising vehicle or a communications gadget, "like the telephone but less efficient," Edward A. Kwalwasser, executive vice president of the exchange, said.
People who are paid to study the future of the brokerage industry, though, say that writing off the Internet as a fad or the domain of a small number of computer-crazed do-it-yourselfers would be a big mistake.
The people who are quick to adopt the Internet "represent, over a lifetime, your highest profit opportunity," said Gary B. Meshell, director of electronic financial services for Price Waterhouse, the accounting and consulting firm. These people are "two-income families, very time pressed, self-directed investors who want information and to make their own decisions."
The number of such people is big enough that the American Express Company has started a new venture, Financial Direct, to serve them over the Internet. Competition will also come from technology companies like the Microsoft Corporation and Intuit Inc., maker of the Quicken money management software.
And Forrester Research is predicting the rise of what it calls midtier brokers, which could grab 60 percent of the on-line investing market by 2001. These firms will offer competitive but not cut-rate pricing and personalized guidance from investing assistants who will help investors with technology and investment problems but not be sales representatives. They will also make less than half as much as the average stockbroker today.
"Firms are really protective of stockbrokers, but if their 11th Commandment is, 'Thy broker shall make $100,000,' they'll be gone," said Julio Gomez, a Forrester analyst.
But not without a fight. Merrill Lynch & Company, the biggest firm on Wall Street, is embracing the Internet, which it says does not pose a threat to its brokers. Merrill has just introduced an on-line service that gives customers access to their accounts and will eventually permit them to do transactions electronically. But the firm is counting on the Net to link its customers more tightly to its brokers, which Merrill calls financial consultants.
"We view the whole information explosion as an opportunity," said Howard Sorgen, a senior vice president at Merrill. "People will still want to make one stop for advice, help and wisdom."
Improving the quality of advice they give is "the holy grail" for financial services firms, said Siddharth N. Mehta, vice president of the Boston Consulting Group. Firms will also try to develop a brand identity, and, for those with institutional clients, perform increasingly complex analysis and create increasingly complicated financial instruments.

The Obstacles
Fear of Fraud And Overloads
So far, all the financial activity on the Internet hardly rates as a blip on Wall Street's computer screens. And there are some hurdles to broader acceptance and influence.
Some are simply technical. The Internet is already overcrowded and is becoming slow and cumbersome to use sometimes -- techies refer to this as the bandwidth problem. And there is still no totally secure way to spend money over the Net. But solutions to these problems seem likely to be available in the near future.
Then there is fraud, which is expected to grow worse as it becomes easy to move money around on the Internet. The S.E.C. has brought nine enforcement actions against people trying to sell unregistered securities over the Internet. Adding to the regulators' challenge is the Internet's international nature, which makes it possible for foreigners outside of the regulators' jurisdiction to try to sell fraudulent investments to Americans.
"The other thing, which in the long run is more damaging, is the hype of thinly traded stocks," said Gary N. Sundick, associate director for enforcement at the commission, which has halted trading in eight stocks so far this year, twice as many as all of last year. Many were the subject of thousands of messages on Internet bulletin boards, some of which, regulators suspect, were posted by people trying to push up stock prices, either because they owned shares or were in the pay of people who did.
In the most infamous case, regulators are investigating messages posted last spring on electronic bulletin boards praising the Comparator Systems Corporation, which said it had developed a new technology involving fingerprint identification. Amid an Internet-generated outburst of enthusiasm, investors traded hundreds of millions of shares in just a few days in May and sent the market value of this tiny, obscure and money-losing company up to $1 billion. Those who sold the stock at the height of the madness scored big profits; those who bought and held the share now own paper that is almost worthless.
While stock manipulation is a chronic problem, "the Internet makes it much less expensive, they can reach a bigger audience, and, for much of that audience, the computer lends credibility," said Mary L. Schapiro, president of the N.A.S.D.'s regulatory arm, which oversees the Nasdaq stock market.
Legitimate companies can also be profoundly affected by investors' chatting up their stocks on the Internet. Shares in the Iomega Corporation, which makes computer storage devices, zoomed from under $4 to over $55 in less than a year as its devoted cyberfans sang its praises; it has since retreated to $24.375.
Indeed, Ms. Schapiro said, the N.A.S.D. now checks the Internet when a stock starts acting oddly.

The Future
Buy and Sell In Cyberspace
Despite the worries over the possibilities for stock manipulation, distributing products over the Internet -- in particular, new stock offerings -- is starting to look like a plausible business. Investors are clamoring to participate in these deals, which now usually go only to brokers' best clients, mostly institutions.
The Internet makes it relatively inexpensive and easy to let small investors participate in such offerings, said Russell M. Frandsen, a California lawyer who helped develop IPOnet, which last month helped sell what may be the first true public offering using the Internet, for a company called Javelin Systems.
Moreover, Internet distribution can cut the costs to the issuing company by 50 percent, contends Christos M. Cotsakos, the ebullient president of E Trade, the all-Internet brokerage firm that went public (the traditional way) this summer. The firm plans to get into underwriting, first as a distributor and then as an investment banker.
Companies too small to attract investment bankers are already using the Internet to publicize their offerings, which they sell directly to investors. The best-known deal was done in February, by Spring Street Brewery, a little New York company that raised $2.1 million. Andrew Klein, its founder, has started a business to assist other companies to do the same.
"If done correctly, it can eliminate brokers largely from the picture and cut costs considerably," John Perkins, chairman of the Small-Business Capital Access Association, said. But Mr. Perkins, a former state securities regulator, notes that simply putting an offering up on the Internet will not guarantee that a company will actually attract any investors.
And a lot of deals may not be good for investors, David Menlow, who describes himself as a staunch opponent of direct public offerings, said. "Many if not all of these companies should not be coming public -- it is too early in their time line," Mr. Menlow, president of IPO Financial Network, said. Moreover, investors who need to sell their shares may find it difficult to find buyers.
Probably the most significant but least predictable changes the Internet will bring to Wall Street involve trading. Because it allows traders to find each other easily, the Internet may ultimately make it possible to have a stock exchange that exists only in cyberspace, with no trading floor, directly open to every investor with a computer and a modem.
Institutions are already hooked on electronic trading systems, like Instinet and Posit. And next month, Jack White & Company, a discount broker, will introduce an Internet site that it hopes will give amateur investors a similar chance, allowing buyers and sellers to meet directly, several times a day, effectively forming their own mini-markets.
While practically everyone with a computer is trying to dream up a new trading system, or so it sometimes seems to regulators, there are problems that have yet to be overcome. One is the lack of immediacy, which means that a buyer may not find a seller right away, and vice versa. Another is that as the same stock trades in several places, it becomes extremely difficult to determine its actual price.
And then there is the amorphous thing Wall Street calls the back office. "The problem for new entrants has nothing to do with the simple issue of trading," said Alfred R. Berkeley, the new president of Nasdaq. "The real issue is credit and collection." How do you make sure that the person you are dealing with is creditworthy and really owns the securities?
Perhaps because the Internet's ultimate effects are so hard to predict, many Wall Street executives view it with "discomfort -- or a little bit of fear," said Elaine La Roche, a managing director of Morgan Stanley & Company and the chairwoman of the Public Securities Association, the trade association of dealers in government and municipal bonds.
"The Internet is more than a new market," she said. "It's a whole new ball game -- and one that has serious, possibly ominous, implications for the financial services industry." Why? "It allows end users to bypass the middleman. It allows them to bypass us."


GRAPHIC: For investors, the Internet promises to deliver some big benefits -- but with some significant risks.
 
INFORMATION
 
Pro:
Chart: "On-Line Trading Pros and Cons"
 Easy access to corporate information (through the S.E.C.'s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval site, known as Edgar).
 Availability of research and analysis previously limited to brokers and institutional investors.
 Advice from on-line investors untainted by stockbrokers' need to make sales.
 
Con:
Source and accuracy of some information is hard to evaluate.
 Promoters and other who are trying to drive up stock's price may pretend to be disinterested experts.
 Investor enthusiasm for some stocks can drive prices to unsustainable levels.
 
EXECUTION
 
Pro:
 Low cost of buying and selling stocks and some mutual funds.
 Orders can be placed any time, though they are fulfilled only when markets are open.
 
Con:
 Continuing technical concerns, including security.
 Slowness as more and more people use (and overtax) the Internet
 
INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS
 
Pro:
 Small companies can sell their stocks.
 More likely that small investors can buy shares.
 
Con:
Regulatory scrutiny of direct offerings is much lower than for underwritten deals, making fraud easier.
 There may not be a market if investors need to sell their shares.
 
TRADING
 
Pro:
 Buyers and sellers meet electronically, eliminating the costs of middlemen (stock exchange specialists or dealers).
 
Con:
 Without a middleman, there is no guarantee investors can buy or sell when they want, or in the amount they want.
 Markets may become fragmented, making it difficult to determine a stock's true price. (pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (54%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (54%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; INVESTMENT BANKING STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



262 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Taxing Rentals for Tourists

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

DATELINE: OCEAN CITY

 BODY:
Tourism drives Ocean City's economy. Each summer, the beach resort's population swells from 15,000 to 125,000. But tourists, some city leaders have noticed, use a lot of city services and do not pay property tax -- not directly, anyway -- in a city where taxes have been increasing an average of 9 percent per year for several years. 
 So on Thursday, the City Council will vote on a proposed $4-per-night tax on all tourist rentals, whether hotel rooms or beach houses. Proponents say the tax would raise about $3 million a year, which would trim $180 from the annual tax bill for the owner of a $200,000 house.
Many business owners oppose the measure, however, arguing that one type of merchant should not be singled out for a tax, said Joann DelVescio, executive director of the Greater Ocean City Chamber of Commerce. Furthermore, she said, in the few communities that charge a room tax, the money is used to promote tourism, not stabilize taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OCEAN CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; RENTING AND LEASING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOUSING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; LAW AND LEGISLATION CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); BEACHES (90%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TOURISM (89%); RESORTS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); TAX LAW (87%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: JOANN DELVESCIO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



263 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Budget, Welfare and Rent Rules Point to a Lively 1997 in Albany

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 10

 BODY:
With the election over, the stage has been set for a 1997 legislative session likely to be every bit as confrontational and protracted as the 1996 version, which dragged into mid-July and produced the latest state budget in the country's history, legislators and political analysts say.
In one stroke, voters last Tuesday strengthened both Gov. George E. Pataki, by passing his $1.75 billion environmental bond act, and his Democratic rivals in the Assembly, by increasing their already large majority by one seat; they now control 95 of the 150 seats. The Governor and Assembly Democrats clashed on myriad issues last session, and there is no reason to think they have been chastened by the election results. 
 The Legislature is also facing a host of contentious issues that would be difficult to resolve even in an atmosphere of bipartisan cooperation. Those issues include extending the state's rent regulations, revamping welfare, closing a projected $3 billion budget shortfall and toughening criminal penalties.
"I don't expect it to be an easy session," Mr. Pataki said in an interview last week.
Though the 1997 legislative session begins in January, the legislators may return for a special session in December to consider welfare legislation, extending a personal income tax surcharge in New York City and raising their own pay, currently $57,500 a year.
Among the thorniest issues facing the Legislature next year will be what to do with the state's rent regulations, which expire on June 15. Those rules establish rent control and stabilization for one million apartments around the state, about 90 percent of which are in New York City.
Three years ago, Republicans in the State Senate succeeded in ending rent protections for certain wealthy people by threatening to allow the rent laws to expire, which would have exposed thousands of tenants to sudden rent increases. The resulting change, known as luxury decontrol, removed protections from households that earn more than $250,000 a year for two years in a row and pay rent of at least $2,000 a month. The change removed 9,000 apartments from rent regulations.
The Senate Republicans, who have received hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions this year from landlords' groups, have vowed to follow a similar course of brinksmanship this year to try to weaken, if not abolish, rent protections. In a prelude to the impending fight, the Senate Republicans, with the support of Mr. Pataki, almost allowed rent regulations for New York City loft tenants to expire last session as a means of extracting concessions from the Assembly Democrats on other issues.
With rent stabilization, which affects slightly more than one million apartments in New York City, allowable increases are decided by the Rent Guidelines Board. This year, the Board has granted increases of 5 percent for one-year lease renewals, and 7 percent for two-year leases.
With rent control, which affects slightly more than 100,000 apartments in the city, a maximum base rent is established, which is then adjusted every two years. Generally, the maximum collectible rent is less than the maximum base rent. By law, however, owners who certify that they are providing essential services and have removed violations may raise rents by up to 7.5 percent each year until the maximum base rent limit is reached.
In a recent interview, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, said he would push for legislation to abolish all rent protections, either gradually or immediately.
"I don't see any good reason why government has to tell landlords and others how much they can charge," Senator Bruno, a Rensselaer County Republican, said. "I think government has to, more and more, get out of people's lives. And this is a perfect example of where government has overstayed its welcome, to the detriment of the public."
Though in the past he has signaled a willingness to abolish all rent regulations, Mr. Pataki said in an interview last week that he thought some protections should remain for the elderly, the disabled and people on fixed incomes. But he said he would push to reduce regulations.
Though he declined to offer details of the type of legislation he would support, Mr. Pataki indicated an interest in expanding luxury decontrol, perhaps by lowering the current thresholds of $250,000 household income and $2,000 a month rent.
"It's one thing to have a law that protects someone who makes $250,000 and subsidizes their rent through various protections, it's another thing for a senior citizen on a fixed income to be told a week from now your rent could go through the roof," he said. "We do need to have some control in place. But we do need to change the law also."
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat who has been the Legislature's major defender of the rent laws, declined to say what kind of changes, if any, he would accept, but insisted he would be flexible.
"I'm not knee-jerk on anything," Mr. Silver said in an interview last week. "I'd like to see a system that makes housing attractive and affordable in New York.
"And if somebody can show me a good way to keep working people here in New York City, I'm very much amenable to it."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is up for re-election next year, will also be a major player in the debate. In 1993, when the rent debate also came up in the middle of a mayoral election, Mayor David N. Dinkins accused Mr. Giuliani of not being a forceful advocate for tenants. Tenant groups are vowing to make rent a focal point of the 1997 mayoral campaign, so Mr. Giuliani will be under intense pressure to find ways of preventing his Democratic challengers from raising similar charges against him.
"My sense is he is very satisfied with what exists now and will support what exists now," said Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for economic development and planning. "He hasn't advocated any modifications."
But Ms. Reiter did not rule out the possibility that the Mayor could support expansion of luxury decontrol. "I can't answer that," she said. "And he can't."
Landlord groups, which have argued that rent laws make buildings unprofitable, have been girding for the battle by pumping thousands of dollars into candidates' campaign coffers. Three major landlord groups, the Rent Stabilization Association Political Action Committee, the Real Estate Board and the Neighborhood Preservation Political Action Fund, together contributed more than $700,000 to state candidates in 1996, most of them Republicans.
The Senate Republican Campaign Committee, which is controlled by Mr. Bruno, received the most: $174,000. The landlord groups also gave more than $50,000 directly to incumbent Republican state senators. And they contributed at least $55,000 to the Republican State Committee and $25,000 to a committee, Renew New York, controlled by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
Welfare also looms as a major battleground in 1997, as the Legislature changes New York State's laws to conform with new Federal welfare rules. These set time limits on cash grants, limit benefits to immigrants and give states the authority to set numerous types of other restrictions.
Mr. Pataki, who in the past has proposed cutting welfare grants by 26 percent, declined to provide details of the plan he is expected to release this week. However, he has said that he will probably seek time limits of 60 to 90 days on the state cash benefit program, known as Home Relief, which goes mostly to childless adults. Mr. Bruno also supports such limits.
Mr. Silver said last week that he was inclined to support a five-year limit on Home Relief benefits to match the five-year limit on Federal benefits to families that is set in the new Federal law. "There has to be some equity between how you treat families and single adults," he said.
Though Mr. Pataki has said that he wants the Legislature to come back in December to begin working on welfare issues, most state officials say privately that they do not expect to accomplish much until next year. Mr. Silver as well as many Republicans want welfare to be part of the overall budget debate, since most welfare policies have major fiscal implications.
The fight over the $64 billion budget, which has been enacted late for 12 consecutive years, is also likely to be divisive, because Mr. Pataki will probably propose trimming popular programs to close a projected $3 billion shortfall for the fiscal year that begins on April 1.
The Governor also said he plans to introduce an ambitious package of criminal justice initiatives, including ending parole for all violent felons and repealing court rulings that he contends favor the rights of criminals over prosecutors and victims. The Assembly strongly opposed similar proposals last session.
The Legislature is also expected to take up a proposal to amend the State Constitution to legalize casino gambling outside Indian reservations, in the Catskills, for example. If the measure passes both houses, the proposition would go before voters next November. Though both Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver said they expect the measure to pass in their houses, opponents are gearing up to block it.
Another contentious issue likely to be on the Legislature's agenda is how to change the governing structure of New York City's school system. Though there is broad support for ending patronage hiring by community school boards, Senate Republicans and Assembly Democrats differ sharply on other matters, like whether to expand the mayor's control of the central school board or whether to create five distinct borough boards of education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (76%); RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (76%); RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; WELFARE (US); HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); CRIME AND CRIMINALS; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); HISTORY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BONDS (71%); INCOME TAX (51%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



264 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: As Latin Leaders Meet, Castro's Attendance Is Questioned

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Nov. 10

 BODY:
As Latin American heads of state gathered for their annual summit conference here today, a bitter debate erupted over Fidel Castro's presence at the meeting, which is focusing on the expansion of democracy.
The appearance of Cuba's Communist leader at the Ibero-American Summit Conference, which brings together presidents of Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking countries, has touched off a storm of protest and demonstrations, both pro and con, in Chile. 
 President Castro is visiting Chile for the first time since 1971, when he called on a fellow Marxist, President Salvador Allende Gossens, who died in 1973 in a coup led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet.
Thousands of leftists, chanting "Castro! Castro!" and carrying signs with a red hammer and sickle, greeted Mr. Castro's motorcade on Saturday and today, while Cuban exiles and right-wing groups held angry rallies outside his hotel.
Mr. Castro has attended past conferences without major opposition, but because the theme of this meeting is democracy and because it is in Chile, his presence seemed to have touched a sensitive chord. Some Latin American leaders and political groups said it was absurd for Mr. Castro to take part in a meeting on democracy while his Government still does not allow free elections.
"No doubt, there is a contradiction on inviting Fidel Castro to a meeting where the main point is democracy," said President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, who has been a vocal critic of Cuba's Government.
"I can't justify any dictatorship -- I've been an eternal victim of the dictatorship my country supported," added Mr. Menem, who was imprisoned by the Argentine military in the 1970's. "But democracy is contagious, and maybe Fidel will catch it."
Asked whether Mr. Castro should have been left out of the conference, President Alberto Fujimori of Peru said, "No, on the contrary, I consider it necessary for all Ibero-American governments to be represented."
"One of the objectives of this conference is to identify the advantages that the democratic system can offer and to look for its expansion and practice between member nations," he said.
After decades of guerrilla warfare and military dictatorships, every nation in Latin America, with the exception of Cuba, has held full democratic elections and is in the process of economic and social reforms.
In Chile, General Pinochet relinquished power to a civilian Government in 1990, but still serves as commander of the army and remains an influential figure. He has accused Mr. Castro of arming and financing leftist guerrillas who wounded the general in an assassination attempt in 1986.
In a major snub to Mr. Castro, General Pinochet and other military leaders, who are widely respected in Chile, avoided the conference and spent the weekend observing military exercises in the northern provinces.
Asked to comment on Mr. Castro's visit, General Pinochet told local journalists: "The Government has invited Lucifer, and he has arrived. If the Government has decided to invite him, then so be it. The Government is the authority to which I submit. I have nothing to do with it."
During the general's 17-year military dictatorship, an estimated 3,200 people, many of whom were Communists, were killed or disappeared at the hands of security forces. And despite his denials, the general's influence is still felt here, as reflected in recent moves to prosecute people who criticized the Government.
Mr. Castro has declined to comment on the debate over his participation in the conference. Today he accompanied family members of Dr. Allende on a visit to his tomb. And in a short speech before other Latin American leaders, he criticized "international economic systems" and "foreign capital and transnationals" that are imposing their "ways" on Latin America.
In what was apparently a reference to the Helms-Burton Act, a new American law to penalize foreign companies doing business with Cuba, he added: "Our culture is being destroyed. Criminal blockades are imposed, and the same force invades our territory intruding into our interior politics. If we close our eyes and don't act united, what's going to happen to our state in the 21st century?"
But even as they debated Cuba's participation in the conference, the Latin American leaders were expected to issue a joint-statement on Monday denouncing the Helms-Burton Act, which President Clinton signed in March.
Helms-Burton allows American citizens and companies to file suit in American courts for restitution from foreign companies that use property taken from the Americans after Cuba's 1959 revolution. The law, which has been widely denounced in Europe, also bars executives of such companies from entering the United States.
While many of the 23 leaders attending the two-day conference have already criticized the Helms-Burton law, Monday's statement would be the first joint declaration of the region and a major victory for Mr. Castro.
"We Latins look upon on Castro as one might look upon a wayward sibling who's trying to reconnect with his family," said a high-ranking diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He is an idealist who is coming of age. An extreme reprimand like Helms-Burton does nothing to help his maturing."
In recent years, most Latin American nations have embraced Cuba as part of a strong drive toward regional integration and in recognition that Cuba had ended its support of leftist terrorist groups in the region. About 30 percent of Cuba's trade is with other Latin American countries.
In an effort to rehabilitate its broken economy, Cuba is starting to privatize state-owned companies and to open its borders to foreign investment. Some investors in countries like Mexico and Argentina are eager to take advantage of accords they have made with Cuba that allow investors to swap shares in Cuban state companies for trade debts.
Some diplomats attending the conference said they hoped the debate over Mr. Castro would not overshadow the meeting's purpose. While the region appears to have moved beyond the era of military coups, its democracies are still very fragile and need stronger commitments to open elections, freedom of speech, equal opportunity and a balance of power, they said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about a summit meeting of Latin American leaders in Santiago, Chile, referred incorrectly to Isabel Allende, the woman shown with President Fidel Castro of Cuba at the tomb of her father, former President Salvador Allende Gossens. She is an official of the Chilean Socialist Party; another Isabel Allende, a cousin of the former President, is the acclaimed novelist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fidel Castro yesterday at the tomb of Salvador Allende. With him is the author Isabel Allende, a relative of the former Chilean leader. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; LATIN AMERICA; CHILE (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); COUPS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ASSASSINATION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ARMIES (67%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); ALLENDE GOSSENS, SALVADOR (1908-73) FIDEL CASTRO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



265 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Wall Street in Cyberspace: Power and Peril on the Net
Despite the millions of dollars that Wall Street spends on computers and high-technology gadgetry, in many ways its business has not changed much since the 18th century. But the Internet, which brings buyers and sellers together, is also bringing profound changes that hold promise -- and peril -- for individual investors and powerful securities firms. [Page A1.]
 
China Bans Some U.S. Goods
China announced a ban on imports of selected goods from the United States, stepping up a trade dispute with the Clinton Administration and sending a blunt signal that it will not easily succumb to threats of sanctions. [A9.]
 
Texaco Reports on Investigation
Outside investigators hired by Texaco have concluded from an analysis of a tape recording that a senior company executive did not use a racial epithet at a 1994 meeting, even though a transcript of the recording, filed in court papers, said he did. [A1.]
 
Whimsical Ads for Net Searcher
As Internet navigators proliferate, they are turning to Madison Avenue to distinguish themselves. The $2 million campaign for Lycos by Mullen Advertising shows users on fanciful searches for information. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D12.]
 
Some Web site developers are going to great lengths to try to get their site to appear first on lists compiled by search requests. [D5.]

Securities Industry SurveyA survey by the securities industry said 94 percent of investors with a broker were either "somewhat" or "very satisfied" with their service. But a significant minority of investors criticized industry fraud. [D2.]
 
F.A.A. Chief Sees Improvements
David R. Hinson, who resigned as head of the Federal Aviation Administration, coped with a string of crashes that raised embarrassing questions. But he is unapologetic about his agency's performance. [A11.]
 
Comedy Central's Next Iteration
"Politically Incorrect," a show with Bill Maher, left, was a signature tune for Comedy Central until it was snapped up by ABC. Now the cable network, drawing on the same talent pool of New York comedians, is finding new programming to help keep its edgy image. [D9.]
 
E-Mail Links and Isolates Students
Visitors to colleges might be in for a jolt, as computer networks cinch even tighter the already inward-looking communities. [A12.]
 
Organic Evolution in Cyberspace
Support on the Internet for theories in Michael Rothschild's book "Bionomics: Economy as Ecosystem," has set off a flurry of mutations of his theories. Edward Rothstein: Technology. [D5.]
 
Newspaper Industry Savings
The page these words are printed on cost about a quarter of a cent. A few months ago, the equivalent page cost about a third of a penny. That drop in price has amounted to a torrent of savings for the industry, which raises the question of who will benefit. Iver Peterson: Publishing. [D9.]

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Entries in the Business Digest and the Company Index yesterday referred erroneously in some editions to a front-page article about an investigation that concluded that a senior Texaco executive did not use a racial epithet at a 1994 meeting. The article became ready for later editions. Readers wishing copies of the article may write to Business Day, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or telephone (212) 556-1474.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 6,219.82 Up 197.89
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.50% Down 0.18
The Dollar -- 111.50 yen Down 1.81

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COMEDY CENTRAL INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (61%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996



266 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Booming Brooklyn

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a historian and a native New Yorker who grew up in Brooklyn, I was delighted with the Nov. 7 editorial "Booming Brooklyn" but cringed at the reference to a site at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues that "has stood vacant" for 40 years. That is not so. My father owned a wholesale packing plant in the Fort Greene meat market that was adjacent to the site. The market was so busy in the 1950's and early 1960's that it was almost impossible to drive near there at noon. Now, only memories fill that vacant lot, memories of the days, 40 years ago, when butchers in bloodied white coats packed those streets and the smell of sawdust permeated the air.
 
RICHARD K. LIEBERMAN
Long Island City, Queens, Nov. 8, 1996
 
The writer is an archives director at La Guardia Community College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (55%); 

PERSON: LIEBERMAN, RICHARD K

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



267 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Oregon's Health Plan Means Good Business

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Contrary to Peter Passell's Nov. 7 Economic Scene column, Oregonians did not reject a business outlook when they approved a ballot measure increasing the tobacco tax to finance Oregon's health plan. 
 The only significant business opposition to this measure came from the tobacco industry. As Oregon has neither tobacco fields nor cigarette plants, the tobacco industry does not speak for any industry in Oregon.
Oregon businesses have supported the plan for strengthening Oregon's Medicaid program, expanding eligibility, reducing costs and improving financing. A goal of the plan was to reduce shifting onto the private sector the costs of caring for the poor; this has been achieved.
Because of its health plan, Oregon is the state with the highest percentage of its population -- 49 percent -- in managed care and has the lowest hospital costs. Oregon employers, who pay more than half the state's health care costs, bank the savings. If health care costs nationally were at Oregon's levels, there would be no Medicare or Medicaid crisis.
To be sure, few businesses have the vision to see that increasing tobacco taxes reduces smoking and thereby reduces the health costs that business ultimately will shoulder. However, the Oregon plan has forged a congruence between the short-range economic interests of business and the long-range health needs of Oregonians.
 
THEODORE C. FALK
Clackamas, Ore., Nov. 8, 1996
 
The writer is vice president and general counsel of PACC Health Plans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); MEDICAID (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SMOKING (77%); TOBACCO MFG (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); TOBACCO FARMING (72%); HOSPITALS (68%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; FALK, THEODORE C PETER FALK (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



268 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2041 words

HEADLINE: Debating Use of Iron As Curb Of Climate

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
THE idea is to fertilize the sea with iron, creating such a bloom of sea plants that they gulp down tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and curb the buildup of this climate-warming gas.
Long derided as foolish and politically dangerous, the idea has now been put to the test after years of foot dragging and has given strikingly good results, stirring hot debate over whether ecological tinkering might help save the planet from climatic disaster. 
 The test was conducted southwest of the Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean, which is a fairly barren area biologically. Over a region of 28 square miles, a team of scientists slowly poured into the sea 990 pounds of iron, which is thought to be a limiting nutrient in such unproductive regions.
Almost immediately, the waters bloomed with the tiny plants known as phytoplankton, and did so over more than 200 square miles, turning the sea from blue to green.
No scientist has criticized the experiment publicly, but experts are at war over whether the test simply sheds new light on marine ecology or points to an important way to battle the effects of global warming.
Dr. Adam Heller, a chemical engineer at the University of Texas at Austin who has promoted the fertilization idea in Washington, hailed the explosive rise in ocean productivity as "very significant, terribly significant." Dr. Heller said in an interview: "We now have some way to cope with global warming should it become a problem. I wish we had more ways."
But detractors of such global engineering say its prospect offers a false hope that threatens to encourage polluters and undercut international accords meant to curb emissions of carbon dioxide, which is released into the atmosphere by the burning of gas, oil, coal and wood and is considered a main culprit in global warming.
"As a scientific experiment, these results are fascinating," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, chief scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, a private group in New York. "But as a potential solution to global warming, they have limited if any value, as far as our current understanding goes."
Fierce side debates are also developing over the cost of a program -- iron is cheap but megatons would be needed -- as well as its possible benefit of stepping up the sea's productivity and enhancing fish harvests.
Both opponents and friends of sea fertilization tend to agree that at best, its widespread use would probably cut atmospheric carbon dioxide by 6 percent to 21 percent, not enough to end the problem but potentially sufficient to dent it.
And all sides agree that the overall impact of an iron-seeding program on the ocean's ecology is riddled with uncertainties, especially for the sea's deeper ecosystems, of which little is known. In short, the cure might turn out to be worse than the disease.
Advocates of the iron-seeding idea say such uncertainties, are no reason to soft-pedal it, especially given the threat of climate change and its attendant upheavals. Years of serious research lie ahead, they say, including exploring the natural history of iron fluctuations in the sea, which some scientists now speculate may be linked to the onset of the ice ages.
"It's much too early to have a policy debate," said Russell Seitz, an associate of the Olin Center for Strategic Studies at Harvard University. "Despite this, the issue seems to been born politicized. Witness the rush to criticize the hypothesis in the early 1990's before the experiment was even done. Given the extent of our ignorance, and the stakes, I'm astonished to see polemics getting the better of science."
Part of the problem lies in the differing agendas of scientists and engineers. In general, scientists devote themselves to studying nature and unraveling its secrets, while engineers use science to rearrange nature in the service of humanity.
Periodically, the two groups have been at loggerheads, the tensions rising steadily in the last few decades as a new kind of visionary has begun to dream of global countermeasures to climatic ills, envisioning huge ecoengineering projects far beyond the engineer's usual domain of making new kinds of computers and space vehicles.
Remarkably, the current battle of the ecoengineering war centers on one of nature's smallest organisms, phytoplankton, which are ubiquitous through the sea, though their numbers vary widely, depending on local levels of nutrients.
In coastal waters rich in agricultural runoff and human sewage, their numbers can swell into the range of 100,000 per drop of water, turning the sea cloudy and brown or soupy green. Far from shore, however, phytoplankton dwindle as low as about 1 per drop, and in consequence these waters are usually deep blue.
Since phytoplankton are the most important of the sea's primary producers, trapping the abundant energy of sunlight and so becoming the foundation of the ocean's food chain, the biological productivity of each region of the sea depends on how many phytoplankton it supports.
A longstanding mystery of oceanography is that of why phytoplankton levels vary so widely, and can be low even in regions rich in nitrogen and phosphorus, the principal nutrients of plants. Seas that are low in phytoplankton but high in primary nutrients account for about 20 percent of the ocean surface.
Beginning in 1986, Dr. John H. Martin, an oceanographer at the Moss Landing Marine Laboratories in California, proposed that low iron levels might account for the poor productivity. His idea was widely dismissed, even though scientists have long known that iron is vital to the health of most animals and plants, and that iron deficiency is a serious problem in many kinds of crops.
Among other things, iron aids photosynthesis by helping to move around the subatomic particles known as electrons, which play a leading role in trapping sunlight's energy.
Despite skepticism, careful experiments in the laboratory and measurements at sea suggested that Dr. Martin's thesis was right. By 1988, with public fears growing because of the threat of global warming, Dr. Martin proposed that the fertilization of unproductive areas of the sea with thousands of tons of iron might fix the climatic problem.
"Give me half a tanker full of iron," he told colleagues, "and I'll give you another ice age."
The idea languished until 1990, when the National Academy of Sciences, which advises the Federal Government, endorsed a test. But financing was slow to materialize, and many scientists and ecologists criticized the idea as an incentive for polluters.
In June 1991, the American Society of Limnology and Oceanography issued a public statement that urged "all governments to regard the role of iron in marine production as an area for further research and not to consider iron fertilization as a policy option that significantly changes the need to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide."
Dr. Sallie W. Chisholm and Dr. Francois M. M. Morel, both of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, commented in an article accompanying the statement, "The 'Geritol Solution' to global warming has been squelched for the time being, but it would naive to think that the issue will not come up again."
Dr. Martin died in June 1993, months before the first experiment that tested his iron hypothesis at sea. That experiment, in the Pacific some 300 miles west of the Galapagos, was ambiguous. A single dose of iron briefly raised phytoplankton levels, but the test ended prematurely when the fertilized patch sank beneath waters of lesser density.
The experiment was redone in May and June 1995 by 37 scientists from the United States, England and Mexico, only this time the iron was dispersed in three infusions over a week to insure a more sustained release into the sea's surface. The test was financed by the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval Research.
The fertilized patch lay some 800 miles west of the Galapagos and had an area of 28 square miles. As detailed in four reports in the Oct. 10 issue of the journal Nature, the effect was immediate and striking.
The sea exploded in a frenzy of phytoplankton growth and reproduction involving trillions of organisms, with the effect reaching its maximum extent some nine days after the start of the experiment and extending over an oceanic area that had expanded to some 200 square miles. The explosion was monitored mainly by measuring levels of chlorophyll, the green pigment of plants involved in the process of photosynthesis. Over all, the iron produced more than 2,000 times its own weight in plant growth, an impossible feat for any fertilizer on land.
"Within one week, about two million pounds of phytoplankton had grown," said Dr. Kenneth H. Coale of Moss Landing, one the authors.
At the same time, levels of carbon dioxide in the sea water plunged more than 15 percent as the expanding jungle of tiny plants soaked up the gas. Since the atmosphere and the sea constantly trade the gas through mixing and diffusion, the explosive growth had a large effect on that exchange as well.
Scientists say the experiment may have pulled more than 2,500 tons of carbon dioxide from the waters before the fertilized patch was broken up by ocean currents. By comparison, human pollution pumps billions of tons of carbon into the air each year.
Dr. Bruce W. Frost, an oceanographer at the University of Washington in Seattle who commented on the study in Nature, said that an extrapolation of such fertilization to a much larger area would have "only a small effect" on future levels of global atmospheric carbon dioxide.
In contrast, Dr. Kenneth S. Johnson, a chemical oceanographer at the Moss Landing laboratory who participated in both iron experiments, hailed the experiment as basically opening a new chapter in humanity's relationship with the planet.
"This shows that you could cause an ice age, which is a pretty profound statement," he said in an interview. "It has lots of implications."
Ecoengineers focus their musings on the Southern Ocean around Antarctica because it is the largest part of the global sea that exhibits the phenomena of high nutrient levels and low iron. It is already a highly productive region, teeming with krill and the whales that feed on the tiny crustaceans.
But scientists say the Southern Ocean, if enriched with iron, would become even more productive and would also become an enormous sponge for carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere. Such a move would require the dumping of millions of tons of iron into the sea every year, more or less continuously.
Among the hotly debated questions are at what cost, and to what effect. A number of studies have suggested that such enrichment would lower the range of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 6 percent to 21 percent.
But Dr. David J. Cooper, a member of the experiment team at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, said the 21 percent value was out of date and that most recent studies had found that the drop would be around 10 percent.
Dr. Cooper, an opponent of ecoengineering, accused its supporters of exaggerating the possible effects. "Scientists haven't been honest about it," he said, suggesting that some were playing up the idea as a way to get financing for experiments.
Mr. Seitz of Harvard, on the other hand, accused the experiment team of bending over backwards to play down the test's results, fearful of upsetting global political agendas.
"If this approach proves to be environmentally benign," he said, "it would appear to be highly economic relative to a Luddite program of declaring war against fire globally," a move that might cost many trillions of dollars in lost development and revenue.
Friends and foes of the idea agree that the big "if" in all this is the proposal's ecological impact, which is wholly unknown and vigorously disputed. Some scientists foresee a flowering of the oceanic food chain, ultimately producing more fish, while other see the oceans dying or significantly disrupted.
All agree that more research, perhaps decades of it, would be needed to flesh out the idea's repercussions.
"It's a mine field," Dr. Johnson of Moss Landing said of the topic. "Everybody is stepping gingerly."

GRAPHIC: Diagrams: "A Test of Enriching the Sea"
Scientists sowed 990 pounds of iron over 28 square miles and saw an explosion of tiny plants that soak up carbon dioxide.
 
The dense bloom turned the sea from blue to green.
 
Results were tracked over about 350 square miles for more than two weeks.
(Source: Nature)(pg. C6)
 
"Microscopic Plants of the Sea"
Scientists are trying to stimulate growth of phytoplankton to soak up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Phytoplankton vary from roughly 1 per drop of water to 100,000 or more, depending on nutrient levels. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN; UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; IRON (NUTRIENT); CARBON DIOXIDE; OCEANS; AIR POLLUTION; WEATHER ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); OCEANS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); WATER POLLUTION (88%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J; MARTIN, JOHN H (DR); HELLER, ADAM (DR) JOHN C MARTIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



269 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops, Then Recovers, As Traders Weigh Yen Policy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell to a one-month low against the Japanese yen before recovering yesterday on lingering concerns that Japan might be changing its foreign exchange policy to stop the yen from weakening further.
The dollar also slipped against the German mark, as European Union finance ministers wrestled with the details of establishing a single European currency by 1999. 
 Trading was light because of the Veterans Day holiday.
In late New York trading, a dollar cost 111.50 yen, unchanged from Friday. The dollar was at 1.4935 marks, down from 1.5053. A British pound cost $1.6464, unchanged from Friday.
The dollar spent most of the day lower, adding to a decline that started Thursday when a senior Japanese official said that the yen's prolonged period of weakness was over. That sent the dollar down 2 percent against the yen, with many traders believing the statement showed a shift in Japanese policy.
Since then, the official -- Eisuke Sakakibara, director of the Finance Ministry's International Finance Bureau -- has tried to allay such concerns, reiterating that Japan's currency policy was unchanged and would remain consistent with that of the Group of Seven industrialized nations.
Traders, however, sold dollars yesterday on continued concerns that Japan may no longer be interested in a weaker yen.
"Japan helped reverse the course of the yen over the last year and a half," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. "Those remarks indicate something else."
Against the mark, the dollar came under pressure as European finance ministers disagreed over the details of introducing a single currency. Problems include what economic criteria should be used for admission and how to monitor countries once they are accepted.
Squabbling over the single currency propped up the mark, and in turn weakened the dollar, as traders questioned whether such a currency would be as stable as the mark.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday, were: 1.2545 Swiss francs, down from 1.2657; 1.3337 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3306; 5.0515 French francs, down from 5.0890, and 1,508.50 Italian lire, down from 1,514.50. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FOREIGN EXCHANGE LTD (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



270 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST AT WORK: Walter Gilbert;
Reading the History of Life in the Text of Modern Genes

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
IS it possible to recreate the origin of genes, the first stirrings of life in the mists of time more than three billion years ago? One of the country's leading biologists is certain that with the power of thought and statistical technique those mists can be burned away. He is Dr. Walter Gilbert and he has been working on the problem for nearly 15 years.
In a basement room at Harvard University's science center one morning a few weeks ago, Dr. Gilbert was at the blackboard, describing the puzzle to nonscientists. He noted that the genes in modern animals were stored in the DNA not as nice readable texts but as choppy fragments that the cell's machinery must stitch together. That curious arrangement is one major clue. Another is that some 95 percent of a person's DNA does not code for genes at all. It seems to be just gibberish, or junk DNA. 
 Genes in pieces and huge stretches of junk? "At first glance, it is peculiar," Dr. Gilbert told the bleary-eyed students. "Then, at second glance, it is even more peculiar. I think it's one of the major unsolved mysteries of the basis of life."
Dr. Gilbert and his colleagues have sketched out a theory of how it all may have happened and what the first genes were like. It was he who coined the terms for the interrupted pattern in which genes are stored on the DNA; the working parts he called "exons" and the regions in between, which the cell has to splice out, he termed "introns."
After a period of controversy, then of acceptance, his ideas have come under new challenge. An electronic debate about primordial exons and introns is taking place this week and next on the Internet (at http:// hmsbeagle.com/scripts/web.exe). So now, Dr. Gilbert and his colleagues have done new experiments and written new papers, using extensive computer and statistical analysis, to support his exon theory of genes.
As Dr. Philip Sharp, a molecular biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, puts it, few scientists are willing to spend time on so vexing a puzzle. "Yes," Dr. Sharp said, "it is very difficult. It may even be unsolvable. That won't stop Wally Gilbert, of course." Dr. Sharp, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 for finding introns, one of the discoveries that set Dr. Gilbert off on this track, said the ideas that Dr. Gilbert put forward "captured the imagination of the field, and still has it, I think."
If Dr. Gilbert's approach is valid, in principle the entire history of life on earth could be inferred from the DNA of modern genes. His theory is an effort to figure out how, in the primordial waters where life began, the earliest genes were assembled. A modern gene is a chemical text with a thousand or more letters. For such a structure to evolve at random would be a lengthy process.
Instead, Dr. Gilbert suggests, the first genetic elements were simple modules, the forerunners of today's exons, and the exons were then mixed and matched to build up the lengthy chains that make longer and longer genes. By analyzing the structure of contemporary genes, it should be possible to discern the ancient modules within.
For the modules to mix and match, Dr. Gilbert believes, they would have needed strips of extra DNA, like the leader on a reel of film, so that two modules could be spliced together without risk of cutting into their genetic message in the process. The introns, the elements interspersed between the coding regions of genes, are in this view related to the ancient leaders that enabled the modules to be assembled. Critics say the theory leaves some awkward issues unexplained. Introns are found in the DNA of plants and animals but not in that of bacteria. So did bacteria lose their introns or never acquire them?
Dr. Jeffrey D. Palmer at Indiana University and a few other experts in molecular evolution suggest that Dr. Gilbert's theory is wrong. They say the introns and the shuffling of genetic modules were mechanisms that did not arise until two billion years after life first began. And, they regard the introns not as clever Tinker Toy construction elements, but as just what they appear to be, pieces of junk DNA left over from billions of years of evolution.
Noting that bacteria, presumably more primitive than plants and animals, do not have introns in their genes, they say it is more reasonable to assume bacteria never had introns than that they had and later lost them.
But bacteria may have streamlined their genetic material by shedding their introns, leading to the "pleasantly perverse" conclusion that humans can be considered as "less evolved" than bacteria, Dr. Gilbert said with a grin. "Maybe we are not in all ways at the pinnacle of evolution, as people like to think," he said. And worse, maybe nature will evolve right past humans and their junk-laden genomes in the future.
Dr. Gilbert grew up in Boston. His father, Richard Gilbert, was a Harvard economist who belonged to Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal "brains trust."
Science has always come naturally for Dr. Gilbert. As Dr. Mark Ptashne, a Harvard colleague, put it: "He would be a scientist no matter what. Put Wally in a room and give him a pencil and a pipecleaner and he will do an experiment."
He won a Westinghouse science fellowship in high school, went to Harvard for a masters in physics, then to Cambridge University in England for a Ph.D. in mathematics. He worked in theoretical physics until 1964. Then he switched to the awakening field of molecular biology, just as did other physicists, like Max Delbruck, Leo Szilard and Francis Crick, who became leading lights of the new subject.
In 1966, Dr. Gilbert and Dr. Ptashne, working down the hall from each other, independently isolated and described the first two "repressor" molecules, chemical switches that keep genes turned off In 1977, he and Dr. Frederick Sanger of England independently devised methods for rapidly reading the "letter code" of DNA. This work later won him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. At the same time, biology had become a political issue as critics protested the first uses of genetically engineered organisms. The City Council of Cambridge, Mass., threatened to shut down the biological laboratories and the buildings were cleared periodically because of bomb threats.
Dr. Gilbert, now 64, was an advocate of the new genetic techniques and was one of the first scientists to found a biotechnology company. He studied patent law and management issues with the same energy he brought to pursuits like Chinese cooking, a late-life interest in playing the piano and what is perhaps his current chief passion outside science: the study and collection of ancient, mostly Greek, sculpture.
Following his business interest, Dr. Gilbert left academia to become chief executive officer of Biogen Inc. He ran the company for several years, but in a disagreement over management style, was dismissed by the company's board.
He later founded the Genome Corporation, a company whose purpose was to read all of the genes in the human genome. But the company failed after the stock market crash of 1987 and by 1988, perhaps spurred by Dr. Gilbert's challenge, the Federal Government began its Human Genome Project.
After a long career with an array of accomplishments behind him, Dr. Gilbert is now working at Harvard on the most difficult questions in biology. In his laboratory, young scientists like Sandro De Souza and Manyuan Long are carrying out experiments to probe the origin of the genes. If the genes are indeed composed of smaller modules formed at the dawn of life, it may be possible to figure out when each gene evolved. The theory may hold a practical consequence for drug design, because it may allow scientists to recognize, and thus to manipulate, the different working parts within proteins.
Dr. Gilbert and his colleagues have developed interesting evidence in support of the "exon theory of genes." If genes were originally assembled Tinker Toy-style, some signs of the connectors and joints, as well as of the modules, should still be visible. One such sign is that since the genetic information is processed by the cell in groups of three letters at a time, the parts being mixed and matched need to be in phase, since if the processing machinery gets out of step the genetic message will be garbled.
In a paper published last year, Dr. Gilbert and his colleagues reported finding just such evidence. In looking at 11,000 introns, they found that their ends were still most often "in phase" -- so they could snap together just as in ancient days.
Dr. Gilbert believes he has recently found another faint signature of ancient exons in the structure of modern proteins. Many proteins have a complex architecture in which each region or module performs a different biochemical operation. If these modules are exons that have been repeatedly shuffled around in the course of evolution, then in the protein's gene the introns should still tend to be found at the joints between the modules.
In a paper to be published next month in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Dr. Gilbert, Dr. Long and Dr. De Souza say they have found that introns do indeed occur more often at the boundaries between modules, and that these modules seem to have come in four different sizes. The size pattern is what might be expected if the first exons were small, coding for 15 to 20 of the amino acid units of proteins, and if some later fused into double, triple or quadruple exons.
Critics are skeptical about the conclusions, noting that they rely on statistical arguments, and that these may not hold up as more data emerge from genome-sequencing projects.
Dr. Palmer of Indiana University says that genes do get shuffled but that it is not yet known when the shuffling mechanism first appeared. "New genes do arise by mixing and matching parts," Dr. Palmer said. "That part of Gilbert's theory has been borne out wonderfully. But the question is whether this kind of shuffling occurred in primordial times to assemble the first sets of genes. For that, the evidence is not there."
Dr. Gilbert acknowledges that the data are not overwhelming, but notes that the flood of new data from genome sequencing projects will soon allow the theory to be put to a more exact test. "We are going to know the answers," he said tentatively. Then, with more conviction, he declared: "Yes. We are definitely going to know the answers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Walter Gilbert, in his office at Harvard University last Friday, has used extensive computer and statistical analysis to map out a theory on what the first genes were like. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Diagram: "How Did Modern DNA Arrangement Evolve? A Theory"
Dr. Walter Gilbert offers an explanation for how human DNA developed into long stretches of nonsense punctuated by actual genes, or codes for useful proteins. To describe these stretches, he coined the terms introns for the nonsense regions and exons for the informational regions.
 
Three to four billion years ago, simple DNA modules provided the code for producing small pieces of protein.
 
In the first organisms with DNA, introns appeared as long regions of DNA holding the modules, or exons, together, making it easy for them to break and rejoin (recombine) to put the genes in new combinations. In the splicing of the RNA copy, pieces of RNA were lost, leaving the codes for a new protein linked together.
 
A protein made of three exon products was now one chain.
 
In modern complex organisms, the genetic structure includes long stretches of genetic material between exons. In the current structure of bacterial genes, these introns have been dropped, Dr. Gilbert theorizes.
 
Labels here. Probably need to decrease pica width.
(Source: Dr. Walter Gilberte)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (63%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GENETICS AND HEREDITY; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); DNA (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; GILBERT, WALTER (DR) WALTER GILBERT (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



271 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Japan Announces New Plan to Deregulate Financial Markets

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto of Japan announced a plan today for sweeping financial change that he said would create a financial center to rival New York and London by 2001.
Though officials gave few details and financial analysts were skeptical, the plan, if carried out, could help eliminate some of the regulation that makes it difficult and costly to do business here. Mr. Hashimoto is hoping to emulate the so-called Big Bang in London 1986, when brokerage commissions were deregulated, freeing financial markets and setting the stage for strong growth. 
 The goal of the Japanese plan is to make markets "free, fair and global," suggesting that the Government intended to ease nearly all major regulations. It mentioned areas already marked for deregulation like brokerage commissions; foreign-exchange controls, and the tax, accounting and legal systems, and it said that it would lower the wall between the securities and commercial-banking businesses.
The political commitment is being endorsed at the highest levels, and it could bring about lucrative opportunities for foreign financial institutions accustomed to competing in open markets.
But the broad measures face great political opposition, which could significantly dilute and delay the changes envisioned.
"Now the issue is whether we do it or not, whether we bring about results or not," said Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, who was named Finance Minister in the new Cabinet announced last week. "Now I am designated as commander in the front lines, with arrows and bullets falling around me like rain. If a bullet hits me, I could be injured, or I could even die. But I accept that."
Drastic financial deregulation would put many small brokerage firms out of business. And more institutions could file for bankruptcy, especially with the Japanese financial industry still trying to crawl out of a crippling banking crisis.
Though the Government has said that it would guarantee the safety of the financial system, a senior Finance Ministry official, who briefed reporters today on the condition that he not be identified, acknowledged that it would be "difficult" for small institutions.
The official refused to give details on specific regulations that would be lifted, and financial analysts expressed caution. The ministry has repeatedly announced various plans to deregulate markets, and there are book binders filled with proposals. While some have been achieved, most have been delayed or confined to the drafting board.
"There's been a lot of talk about deregulation and we haven't seen much, so the markets are in a kind of 'show me' mood," said Elizabeth L. Daniels of Morgan Stanley Japan. "The market has to be shown that actions can follow verbiage and that it's not just a lot of hot air."
Tokyo is sometimes regarded as the world's third-largest financial center, but over the last few years, the highly regulated Japanese environment has chased away business in the stock, currency and other markets, prompting fears of a "hollowing out" of the country's financial markets.
Foreign companies have been delisting themselves from the Tokyo Stock Exchange; Japanese investors have been buying Japanese shares in London to skirt high trading costs in Tokyo, and Japanese companies have been turning to the offshore Eurodollar markets to escape regulations at home.
Mr. Hashimoto had campaigned on a platform of reform, and today's measures seemed an effort to make good on that. The Government also seems to have recognized that it cannot wait any longer. Financial products familiar to individual investors in Britain and the United States are typically unheard of here. Investment trusts, for instance, cannot be listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but are sold privately by securities houses. And the securities firms cannot list index funds, a small basket of stocks that try to mimic an index, such as the S.& P. 500.
Brokers' commissions are stipulated by the Government. And a costly securities tax means that buying a stock in Tokyo is significantly more expensive than buying the same stock in London.
Some critics said drastic deregulation of by-the-book rules alone would not be sufficient unless there was also a transformation in the way business was conducted.
"There has to be a change in the mind-set of the participants in the market, and a change in the mind-set of regulators," said Brian J. Waterhouse, a financial analyst at James Capel Pacific.
Another big task will be creating a supervisory organization that can oversee a competitive, deregulated and open market, in the way it is done in Europe and the United States. While there are about 10,000 American officials who regulate, oversee and monitor the various financial markets, Japan has perhaps 1,000.
And though officials here are using the term Big Bang, it may be a misnomer. According to the senior Finance Ministry official, various regulations will be lifted in piece-meal fashion, depending upon when ministerial and legislative approval can be obtained. And while in London in 1986, brokerage commissions were deregulated in one day, Japan is trying to lift many major regulations over a period of time.
The first area of change is expected to be the lifting of some foreign-exchange controls, with a proposal submitted for debate at the next session of Parliament in a few months. But in general, the bills for the financial restructuring are not expected to be submitted for passage until January 1988.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Trade Surplus Lower
TOKYO, Nov. 11 (Reuters) -- Japan's current-account surplus plunged by more than one-third in the first half of this fiscal year despite a weaker yen, the Government said today, confirming that the contentious trade gap was still shrinking, though at a slower pace.
The surplus in the current account -- the broadest measure of trade in goods and services -- plunged 35.3 percent in the six months ending in September, to 3.33 trillion yen -- roughly $29.7 billion -- compared with the period a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said.
The surplus in merchandise trade alone in the six months decreased 32.1 percent from the period a year earlier, to 4.16 trillion yen, or $37 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY JAPAN LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS DEREGULATION (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); BONDS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (68%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



272 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Whitewater Counsel Says He Has Found Lack of Cooperation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 11

 BODY:
In a rare news conference and speech, the Whitewater independent counsel complained here today about a general lack of cooperation with his investigations but said he was making substantial progress anyway.
"It would have been very helpful, frankly, if each person with relevant information had simply come forward -- honestly, truthfully assisted the prosecution in seeking to get at the facts, get at the truth," said the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr. "We did not meet with that to the extent that I would have liked. They have Fifth Amendment rights against compelled self-incrimination; they have the right to a trial before their peers." 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Starr said, "We have made very substantial progress both in the Little Rock and the Washington phases of the investigation."
Mr. Starr is overseeing a series of inquiries that began with the links between President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton to a failed Arkansas savings and loan. But the investigations have expanded to include the dismissal of the staff of the White House travel office, the White House's improper acquisition of hundreds of Federal Bureau of Investigation files and the business dealings of Mr. Clinton's associates in Arkansas.
While Mr. Starr said repeatedly that a lack of cooperation had slowed his efforts, he refused to say whether he meant these comments as a criticism of the White House under Mr. Clinton.
"I am not going to direct that observation at anyone," Mr. Starr said.
Susan McDougal, a former business associate of Mr. Clinton in the Whitewater project, an unsuccessful real estate development in Arkansas, was jailed on Sept. 9 by a Federal judge for refusing to answer prosecutors' questions about the President before a grand jury.
Asked after his speech whether Mr. Clinton's re-election last week would affect his work, Mr. Starr replied: "I'm not going to comment on the elections in any respect. I have a job to do."
While describing in some detail the convictions of Arkansas politicians and business people that he has already obtained, Mr. Starr declined to comment on any future indictments he might seek or to discuss any specifics of his examination of the President's conduct. Asked whether the investigation might take one more year or five more years, he said he would like to finish in one year.
"I have no reason to think the latter," he said.
During the election campaign, Mr. Starr said very little in public about his investigation. But he spoke today at the Economic Club of Detroit, a group of business executives, civic leaders and teachers who bring in weekly speakers to educate them on public policy. While the club itself is nonpartisan, many members are Republican.
Mr. Starr said at his press conference this morning that part of his job as independent counsel was to engage in public education. When he was asked whether he was more willing to speak out now that the elections were over, he replied, "It is frankly more appropriate for me to get engaged in an educational function at a time when the American people can now turn back to their hockey, professional football and other activities, and to participate in a dialogue in what I hope and certainly would seek to be an appropriate but limited way."
Mr. Starr noted that he had spoken publicly about the process of an independent counsel investigation shortly after taking the job and that he had made some public appearances since then. After his speech this afternoon, he said he had agreed to address the Oklahoma Bar Association in Oklahoma City on Thursday.
Mr. Starr opened his speech to the several hundred club members by defining "civic virtue," a phrase that he acknowledged had "a fusty sound, something out of old age and quill pens." He went on to give a synopsis of the developments in the Whitewater case so far, occasionally criticizing the view that it has become too complicated for many Americans to understand.
"It is, at its origin, about lying, false statements and fraud that contributed to the demise of a Federally insured savings and loan in Little Rock," he said.
"It is, at its base, lying and fraud to secure loans for wealthy and influential people from yet another financial institution," he added.
Mr. Starr said several times that his efforts to investigate the President were not motivated by any partisanship, as Democrats have sometimes suggested.
"The charge is utterly wrong," he volunteered early in his speech.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, answered questions yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ETHICS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); JUDGES (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: STARR, KENNETH W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



273 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Index of Demand for Chips Soars to High for This Year

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The semiconductor industry's leading indicator rebounded sharply in October, reaching its highest level since last year, a trade group reported today. Analysts had expected a gain, but the actual number exceeded even the most optimistic estimates.
The Semiconductor Industry Association, based in San Jose, Calif., reported a book-to-bill ratio of 1.10, up from a revised figure of 0.98 in September. The ratio compares orders with shipments, so, the reading of 1.10 indicates that for every $100 worth of chips shipped, $110 was ordered. That is considered a sign that the industry is again growing. 
 Analysts hailed the number, which was the largest since 1.12 in December, as the harbinger of a new boom cycle for the chip industry.
The return to a reading above one comes after last week's announcement by the Intel Corporation, the world's largest semiconductor company, that its fourth-quarter results would exceed previous estimates because of a surge of orders from personal computer manufacturers.
The book-to-bill reflected "a real acceleration of microprocessor orders, and that's Intel," Jonathan Joseph, an analyst with Montgomery Securities, said.
But he noted that prices had firmed for D-RAM, or dynamic random access memory, chips, the most common type of chips produced by many other manufacturers, which had been in oversupply much of the year. "That's a real healthy sign that we're seeing a reacceleration," Mr. Joseph said.
Chip orders in October rose to $3.74 billion, up $566 million, or 18 percent, from $3.17 billion in September, according to the trade group. Shipments also increased, to $3.39 billion, up $161 million, or 5 percent, from $3.23 billion in September.
The book-to-bill ratio has been the subject of much criticism in recent months, and the association said today that it would stop publishing the number at the end of the year.
In January, the trade group will begin publishing the Global Billings Report, which will reflect sales of chips worldwide; the book-to-bill covers only the markets in North and South America, which account for roughly a third of total chip sales.
"The new program will give industry observers a more accurate picture of trends in the world semiconductor market as business continues to expand and diversify," Thomas W. Armstrong, the association's president, said in a statement. "Instead of focusing on book-to-bill ratios for just one major market, people will get to review sales numbers from all four major markets."
While the addition of Japanese, Asian-Pacific and European data represents an improvement, analysts said, the new report will be subject to some of the distortions that have plagued the old one.
For one thing, the data are tabulated in dollar amounts, rather than in units, so any drops in price can indicate a decline in orders even though volume is actually increasing; such a situation occurred earlier this year.
And because the ratio is based on a three-month moving average, one unusually good or bad month skews the number for the entire period, analysts said.
Dan Niles, an analyst with Robertson, Stephens & Company, said this type of distortion explained the surprising figure for October.
"Part of the reason this number looks so good is they dropped off July, which was just a horrendous month, and they added a phenomenal October," he said. "That's how you get to 1.10 when nobody expected more than 1.03."
Still, Mr. Niles said he was happy with the October number: "For a long time, I've said the summer was the bottom. This is just another indication that was the case." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN INTEL CORP (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES ELECTRONICS (93%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MEMORY CHIPS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (73%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



274 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rise in Light Day; Dow Up 35.78

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Stocks continued to rally yesterday, sending the the Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500 index and Nasdaq composite index to record highs.
Prices gained strength from the opening bell and never flagged, as the Dow industrials rallied 35.78 points, to 6,255.60. It was the Dow's fourth consecutive record close. 
 In the broader market, the S.& P. 500 rose 1.05 points, to 731.87, marking its 33d record of the year.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 5.16 points, to a record 1,262.67, eclipsing a record dating from Oct. 15.
Stock market investors were unable to take their cue from the Treasury bond market, which, along with banks, was closed in observance of Veterans Day.
Because of the holiday, trading volume was much lighter than usual, at 354 million shares.
Investors said they saw no reason to expect anything other than rising corporate profits, moderate economic growth of 2 percent to 3 percent, subdued inflation and low interest rates.
"This market right now is in nirvana," said Philip Schettewi, a money manager who helps oversee $3.8 billion for Loomis, Sayles & Company in Washington. "All the ingredients for a bull market are still there, and it's very potent."
Eastman Kodak led the Dow industrials as investors anticipated rising profits this year and next. The shares benefited from a recommendation from CS First Boston, which named the company its "featured stock of the week." Its shares rose 1 5/8, to 82 5/8.
Semiconductor stocks climbed for a ninth day. After the market closed, a trade association said computer chip makers received $110 in new orders for every $100 of chips shipped last month, the first time this year that the book-to-bill ratio of orders to shipments had exceeded the level of 1.0.
Intel rose 1 5/8. to 123 7/8; Texas Instruments Inc., gained 2 1/8, to 56, and Micron Technology climbed 2 1/2, to 32 1/2.
Shares of Philip Morris up 1 5/8, to 99 3/8, were helped by a decision by College Retirement Equities Fund to reject a shareholder proposal to sell all the fund's tobacco stocks.
UST Inc., maker of Copenhagen and Skoal snuff and chewing tobacco, gained 3/4, to 30 5/8. The company announced plans to buy back as many as 20 million shares after it completes its current repurchase program.
Walt Disney jumped 1 7/8, to a record 70 3/8. The movie studio and theme-park operator raked in $35 million in ticket sales during the first weekend of release for its Mel Gibson blockbuster, "Ransom." Paine Webber Inc. also raised its investment opinion on Disney today to "attractive" from "neutral."
Retail stocks climbed in anticipation of fiscal third-quarter earnings scheduled for release this week from both Gap Inc. and the Woolworth Corporation.
Gap, owner of the Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic chains, rose 7/8, to 32 1/4, while Woolworth, which owns the Foot Locker chain and is part of the Dow industrials, climbed 7/8, to 22 3/4.
Tyson Foods Inc. surged 2 3/4, to 31 1/8. The poultry producer forecast lower grain prices and improved earnings.
Qualcomm Inc. rallied 2 1/4, to 44 3/4. Lehman Brothers repeated to clients that shares in the maker of telecommunications equipment should be bought, and were likely to rise to $65 each.
Loral Space and Communications gained 7/8, to 17 1/2. The satellite maker's Globalstar L.P. unit signed an agreement with China giving it access to the country's telephone and wireless communications networks.
Lockheed Martin Corporation jumped 1 5/8, to 90 1/4.
 
ON THE WEB
 
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web:

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (82%); MU (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); DIS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (62%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (82%); UST INC (62%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (55%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (54%); INTEL CORP (53%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (52%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (99%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); SMOKING ACCESSORIES MFG (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TOBACCO MFG (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%); TICKET SALES (50%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



275 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: New Malta Chief Focuses on Neutrality

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta, Nov. 9

 BODY:
At a time when countries are lining up to join the European club, along comes tiny Malta -- an island nation in the middle of the Mediterranean with a population the size of Cincinnati's -- and says, "No, thank you."
The results of elections here on Oct. 27 took many by surprise, not least the incumbent Nationalist Party, which after nine years of prosperity had expected a pat on the back for putting the country in line for the European Union's next round of admissions. 
 Instead, victory went to the Maltese Labor Party, and its leader, Alfred Sant, a 48-year-old former diplomat with a doctorate from the Harvard Business School, whose methodical, poker-face style has broken the mold of Malta's high-pitched, sometimes violent political tradition.
For the 370,000 people who live on Malta's three islands, the issues this year had less to do with foreign policy and everything to do with taxes -- in particular a hugely unpopular 15 percent value-added tax that came to be seen as the price exacted from Maltese pocketbooks for European membership.
Then there were Malta's hunters, a small lobby whose protests against recent restrictions on bird hunting added heat to resentments over a perceived invasion of Maltese sovereignty.
It fell to Mr. Sant to take these intensely local issues and couch them in terms of Malta's neutrality -- a clause in the Maltese Constitution written by a previous Labor Government and now held by its heirs to be the safeguard of a sovereignty that withstood sieges by the Ottoman Turks in the 16th century and by the Nazis in World War II.
Within hours of taking office, Mr. Sant withdrew Malta's membership in Partnership for Peace, a NATO military cooperation program that is so loosely defined that its sign-up list now spans the spectrum from Russia to Switzerland. He also says he wants to renegotiate Malta's relationship with the European Union, although he has stopped short of withdrawing its application for full membership.
Mr. Sant says none of those moves should be interpreted as anti-European or anti-American, but simply as the best way of insuring Malta's security.
"We are at the center of the Mediterranean, a region that has to be stable, and we feel that through neutrality, we can help maintain that stability," he said in an interview.
Although the end of the cold war and new advanced weapons have deprived Malta of the strategic importance it had when it was home to a NATO naval base in the 1960's, its location on a volatile north-south dividing line, between the southernmost tip of Sicily and the northern coast of Africa, puts it in a delicate position. Many here see Islamic militancy, already apparent in Algeria, as a major threat to the region.
But as always, it is Malta's relations with Libya, 140 miles to the south, that are the focus of international attention, just as they were during the Labor Governments in the 1970's and early 1980's, when the contacts grew particularly close.
The Nationalist Government, which came to power in 1987, also maintained neighborly relations with Libya, but the main thrust of its foreign policy was northward to Europe, which it regarded as Malta's lifeline for the future.
Mr. Sant talks of improving the Maltese-Libyan commercial relations, although he insisted that Malta would continue to observe the United Nations-sponsored economic sanctions imposed as a result of Libya's refusal to extradite suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.
"We would like sanctions to stop because it cramps our economic relations," he said. But he added that Malta had little influence on the issue. "Frankly, if Malta lobbies, no one notices. I am very modest. We would like to see the problem of Lockerbie solved, but it is up to the United States and Libya."
In his first two weeks in office, Mr. Sant has tried to reassure both the United States and Europe that he is not about to make any sharp changes in Malta's policies, or bring back the confrontational style of a former Labor Prime Minister, Dom Mintoff.
The new Maltese Foreign Minister, George Vella, recently opened a special meeting on nuclear nonproliferation and export controls that was attended by several representatives of American Government agencies, while the island's ports have continued to receive visits from foreign naval vessels.
Mr. Sant said he expected to reduce the frequency of those port calls by foreign navies. "We don't want Malta to be an outstation," he said. "Yes to visits, but within certain limits."
Former Prime Minister Edward Fenech Adami, who was ousted in the October election, said he feared that Malta's slackened interest in membership in the European Union would discourage the foreign investors who are crucial for an economy already heavily dependent on Europe.
"There is a big entity next door to us that already exists, and that is Europe," Mr. Fenech Adami said in an interview. "We cannot ignore it, and we cannot afford to be left out."
Foreign diplomats and local political experts, still alert for any signs of the kind of policies that once made Malta an international irritant, say they have been reassured by Mr. Sant's cautious style.
"I am taking it slowly," Mr. Sant said. "Everybody expected me to go chop, chop, chop, and they are surprised I am not doing that."

GRAPHIC: Map of Malta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALTA (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALTA; MALTA (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POPULATION SIZE (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); COLD WAR (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); POLITICS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); VALUE ADDED TAX (67%); SPORT HUNTING (66%); NAVIES (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; SANT, ALFRED (PRIME MIN) ALFRED SANT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



276 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani, 1997 in Mind, Focuses On Education and Attacks Rivals

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
With the Presidential election out of the way, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has begun to marshal several core elements of his as-yet unannounced re-election campaign, trumpeting the precipitous drop in crime while moving quickly to establish credentials in education. And with growing asperity, he now belittles most of his likely opponents as machine politicians of the past.
For months, the Mayor has basked in the city's growing reputation as a safer place to live and do business, aided by some improvement in the local economy. "New York is in the midst of a renaissance," he said in an interview yesterday, sounding what is expected to become the principal theme of his campaign. 
 But as his Democratic opponents have tried to change the subject, repeatedly pointing to the failures of the public school system, Mr. Giuliani has all but acknowledged that he cannot run on crime-fighting alone.
Thus, after three years of cutting the school system's projected spending by more than $1.2 billion, the Mayor announced on Thursday that growing tax revenues had allowed him to find an extra $70 million to spend on new schoolbooks to replace the system's aging texts, more than doubling the amount already budgeted for schoolbooks.
In three appearances last week to mark National Reading Week, the Mayor appeared before television cameras at schools and public libraries reading to children and talking about the importance of the textbooks he had decided to buy.
He also extolled the performance of the Schools Chancellor, Dr. Rudy Crew, and the relationship of trust the two men have built.
Yesterday, in announcing the appointment of Martin D. Raab, a prominent architect, as president and chief executive of the School Construction Authority, the Mayor stood by as Dr. Crew returned the favor, declaring that the school system had entered a period of "good times."
"These are good times, for obvious reasons," said Dr. Crew, only a few weeks after the headlines were declaring an overcrowding crisis in city schools. "Our children benefited the other day from a major step in the right direction in terms of books that are going to be placed in classrooms, and today signals an opportunity for our children to rejoice over the fact that they will have classrooms, by virtue of the work that Martin will undertake."
Mr. Giuliani has also begun to amplify the harshness of his attacks on his most likely Democratic opponents, linking them explicitly to the administration of David N. Dinkins, whom he vanquished in 1993, and doing his best to remind voters of what life was like during that period.
"All of them have some interesting questions to answer," he said in a telephone interview yesterday. "They have all been perennial parts of the city and state governments for over 20 years and did nothing to change any of this. They are much more the insiders of government than I am. I've done more to change city government in a few short years than they ever did. They just sat by and watched all of this happen and did nothing about it."
The Mayor has been particularly critical of Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, calling her "the most left" of the possible candidates, and of Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller, whom he called one of the "machine politicians" of New York City.
Unlike Ms. Messinger, Mr. Hevesi has not yet decided whether to run for mayor, but last week Mr. Giuliani blasted the Comptroller for opposing the planned sale of Coney Island Hospital, saying Mr. Hevesi wanted to "maintain it for the political bosses so they can have jobs."
Though many Democrats privately predict that the Republican Mayor will be re-elected, Mr. Giuliani himself has taken no chances in a city dominated by Democrats, and in which he does not have a strong political organization behind him. He has raised more than $6 million, far more than any of his potential challengers, and has clearly taken note of tepid approval ratings that have hovered in the high 40's and low 50's.
A survey taken by Quinnipiac College last month showed that while 76 percent of those polled said they approved of his handling of crime, only 54 percent said they approved of his overall performance. Only 34 percent of those surveyed voiced approval of his performance on education. A similar poll taken by the Marist Institute in September found that 46 percent of the respondents said they had confidence in the Mayor's ability to improve the city schools, while 54 percent said they were not confident.
"With the concerns people have about schools and the amount of money in the educational budget, it can't help but become a major campaign issue, and appropriately so," said Robert Berne, dean of the Wagner School of Public Service at New York University. "Any mayor and particularly this Mayor has shown that he can influence the system. The challengers will make a case on whether that influence has been the right influence."
The challengers, of course, have already begun to do that. Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, said yesterday that the Mayor apparently recognized that he had had a "one-note administration," and had to begin recognizing the concerns of New Yorkers in areas like education and jobs.
Ms. Messinger said much the same yesterday. "People inside the schools are immensely disturbed at the loss of funds, the deterioration of buildings, the lack of serious focus on teaching and learning," she said. "I hope the Mayor starts to listen, and that this week was not an accident."
The Mayor himself says that his record on education has been "excellent," saying Dr. Crew and his staff have done more to revive education in the city than has been done in a long time. With growing sensitivity, he has in particular lashed out at those who have accused him of cutting the school budget, insisting that the city is spending more than ever on the Board of Education.
Some of the budgetary dispute revolves around the Byzantine nature of the board's spending. The Mayor acknowledges that he has cut the amount requested by the board by a total of $1.2 billion, but he says the actual amount the city spends on the school system has gone up. But the City Comptroller's comprehensive annual financial report, long considered the final authority at City Hall on spending, shows that city spending on education has declined each year from 1994, even before inflation is considered.
More important, the amount the city spends per student has unquestionably fallen, because the number of students grows by about 20,000 a year. In 1994, the city spent $2,721 per student; in the fiscal year that ended in July, the city spent $2,424, adjusted for inflation. The amount will further decline this year, according to budget projections.
"To the extent my opponents criticize me for these things, they've had many years to correct them," the Mayor said. "Obviously, if I run for re-election, one of the things I'll be asking is, what have they ever done? What kind of record do they ever have? The condition of the New York City school system did not happen in just a few years; it happened over a long period of time, and these people have been in government just about that long. If you wanted a theme, that's part of the theme."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LIBRARIES (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); FIRESTONE, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



277 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Welfare Plan Would Cut Payments to Families Over Time

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Proposing the biggest changes in the 60-year history of the state's welfare system, Gov. George E. Pataki will offer legislation this week to cut the monthly grants of hundreds of thousands of poor families and end cash benefits for many immigrants and able-bodied childless adults, his aides said today.
The plan, which Mr. Pataki is expected to announce on Wednesday, is intended to bring New York State into compliance with the broad rules laid down in the new Federal welfare law, and represents his opening bid in negotiations with the Legislature. Those talks, which will begin in earnest when Mr. Pataki presents his 1998 budget in January, are likely to be drawn out and bitter, if past years are any guide. 
 The Governor's bill will call for reducing monthly benefits by 10 percent after a family has been on welfare for 18 months. Benefits will then be cut in stages during the next three years, for a total reduction of 45 percent. After five years, families will be dropped from the rolls entirely, as mandated by the Federal law.
If the plan were enacted next year, a family of three living in New York City would see their monthly benefit check shrink to $519 by the year 1999, from the current $577. Their benefits would then decline each year, hitting $317 a month by 2002, a cut of $265 a month from the current level.
The Governor's aides said his plan would offset that cut by allowing families to keep up to $1,080 a month from jobs without losing any of their welfare grant. Currently, the state begins cutting benefits once a household earns more than $667 a month.
In its broadest outlines, the plan resembles legislation the Governor proposed in 1995 and again earlier this year, which called for reducing benefit levels and setting time limits on welfare grants. Both proposals were rejected by the Democratic-controlled Assembly. But Pataki aides say that the revamped Federal law, which sets a host of restrictions on benefits and reduce Federal spending on welfare by $55 billion over six years, will force the Assembly Democrats to accept many of those ideas next year.
"It's different this time," Zenia Mucha, Mr. Pataki's director of communications, said today. "We have to be in compliance with the Federal welfare law."
The Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver of Manhattan, who will be the Democrats' chief welfare negotiator, was out of the country today and could not be reached for comment. But Mr. Silver has in the past strongly opposed cutting benefits for families or individuals, and is expected to do so again.
The Governor's plan does not break new ground among the states, many of which have already ended cash benefits for able-bodied childless adults and have proposed cuts and strict time limits on benefits for families. But New York State has long had among the most generous welfare systems in the nation, so the Governor's proposal, if enacted, would represent a sea change from current policies.
There are 1.4 million people on welfare in New York State, costing $3.8 billion a year, which is divided among the state, Federal and local governments. Total caseloads are down by 200,000 since Mr. Pataki took office in 1995, largely because of new work requirements and tougher screening of applicants in New York City, which accounts for 70 percent of the state's welfare spending.
Though Mr. Pataki's aides could not provide precise estimates of how much his welfare plan would save, it is likely to reduce state spending by several hundred million dollars, money that could be used to close the state's projected $3 billion shortfall for the coming fiscal year.
Mr. Pataki's aides say his proposal is as much about ending welfare dependency as about closing budget gaps. The plan, parts of which were first described in Newsday today, is intended to encourage welfare recipients to work by allowing them to keep more of their earnings from jobs, and to discourage them from remaining on welfare by reducing benefit levels.
The Governor would also allow families to continue receiving Medicaid, the Federal-state health care program for the poor, for up to a year after they find jobs and leave welfare. Under current law, people lose their Medicaid benefits as soon as they go off welfare. Many experts say mothers often stay on welfare instead of taking low-paying jobs because of fears about losing their health insurance.
The plan calls for increasing state spending on day care for welfare recipients and working-poor parents by $130 million in the coming year, to $630 million. It proposes establishing a $150 million fund to help pay for new day care and job placement programs in future years. The Federal law requires states to place an increasing number of welfare recipients in work programs each year, reaching a maximum of 50 percent of the eligible caseload by 2002.
The monthly welfare grant of $577 for a family of three in New York City has not been raised since 1990, despite inflation. And since no allowance is made for inflation in the reductions proposed in the Governor's new plan, the cut in purchasing power would actually be more than 45 percent.
The state's current welfare system is divided into two main areas: Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the Federal, state and local program for families currently serving 1.15 million people; and Home Relief, the state and local program mainly for childless adults, which serves 272,000 people. Both programs are now entitlements that provide cash benefits for as long as a recipient can demonstrate need.
Mr. Pataki's plan would overhaul both programs. Aid to Families with Dependent Children, which would be renamed New York Works, would set a five-year lifetime limit on benefits and require all able-bodied adults to participate in workfare programs in exchange for their benefits.
Home Relief would be replaced by two new programs. Able-bodied, childless adults would be placed in a so-called safety net program that would replace cash benefits with vouchers for food, shelter and clothing. Caseworkers would be given broad authority to determine the value of monthly vouchers, with the power to end payments when a recipient could no longer demonstrate need. Voucher recipients would also be required to participate in work programs.
Home Relief recipients who cannot work because of mental or physical disabilities would be placed in a separate state program paying cash benefits. That program would also be open to the elderly, people with disabled dependents and people with AIDS.
New immigrants would be among the most adversely affected by the combined effects of the Federal law and Mr. Pataki's proposals.
Under the Federal changes, most immigrants who arrived here after Aug. 22 will not be eligible for Federal benefits. The new law also ends Supplemental Security Income, which goes to the disabled and elderly, for most immigrants.
Mr. Pataki's plan would continue to pay cash benefits to immigrant families who arrived in the United States before Aug. 22. But immigrant families who arrived after that date would be treated the same as able-bodied single people: no longer eligible for cash payments, only for the more limited voucher program. Immigrants who lose their S.S.I. payments would also be eligible for vouchers, not cash grants.
Advocates for the poor called Mr. Pataki's proposal to cut benefits punitive, and predicted that it would fail in the Assembly.
"It's an absurd proposition," said Shelly Nortz, director of state policy for the Coalition for the Homeless. "People are on welfare for reasons that have little to do with their purported laziness and everything to do with things like an inability to speak English, mental illness, addictions, asthma. Those are things that cutting benefits 45 percent over four years just is not going to fix."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Shrinking Welfare Payments" shows inflationary decreases for welfare payments from 1991 to 1996 and proposed decreases of welfare payments from intial benefit to after four years. (Source: State Division of The Budget)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES LEGISLATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); REFUGEES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



278 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: Pressing Reform, Child Welfare Commissioner Looks to Los Angeles

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
By her own reckoning, Gloria Jones could hardly have been a worse mother. She was unwed, unemployed and a chronic drug abuser. Discipline often meant a scream and a slap. And she had lost her children to foster care twice because of neglect, and was on the verge of losing them permanently.
That is when Charles Thomas came into her life. Instead of removing Ms. Jones's three daughters again, a judge assigned Mr. Thomas, a social worker and family therapist, to smother her with constant guidance and attention. 
 Since that appointment in late 1995, Mr. Thomas has worked intensely with the family, on call 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. He arranged drug counseling and classes in child care and spiritual life at a local church. He helped bring order to the family's once chaotic and squalid apartment. And he has become her advocate on an array of concrete problems related to poverty, like getting her rent -- which was more than a year in arrears -- paid on time.
This new approach, based on intensive supervision and using networks of neighborhood institutions, is bringing national attention to the Los Angeles County child welfare office and is about to be embraced in New York City. In September, Nicholas Scoppetta, the Commissioner of New York's Administration for Children's Services, praised the approach used here, saying that he wanted to replace much of the vast bureaucracy responsible for protecting New York's most vulnerable children with dozens of neighborhood-based networks based on the Los Angeles model.
Under the old model, social workers faced a stark choice: either leave vulnerable children with their parents, with little monitoring, or move them to foster and group homes. Child welfare authorities often let cases slide for years rather than make such a bleak choice.
Now, Los Angeles County, using two dozen neighborhood-based networks of churches, medical centers and social service groups to help children before they suffer serious neglect or abuse, is seen by child welfare experts as having one of the most successful programs in the nation.
Mr. Scoppetta and his aides have traveled to Los Angeles and observed firsthand the program, which began in 1992. But, they say it is too early to tell when a similar program might be implemented in New York.
The idea behind the program is simple: community-based organizations are likely to know more about a child's neighborhood and family environment than a fragmented, complex central bureaucracy. In theory, intervention by social workers familiar with the family itself is also likely to be less threatening than workers from a remote bureaucracy.
So far, the Los Angeles model is proving to be cost-effective. Peter Digre, director of the Los Angeles County Department of Child and Family Services, said the cost of placing a child in foster care or a shelter and of providing care by psychologists and specialists could be $30,000 a year; the neighborhood network cost about half that.
The underlying premise of these intensive family preservation programs is that a community-based caseworker can quickly identify problems and correct them after observing a family at home for several hours a day, several times a week. Free of rigid office schedules and paperwork, caseworkers like Mr. Thomas can be available any time family members need them.
"I like their family preservation program a lot because it takes into account the fact that families cannot function on their own, they can only function in the context of the wider community," said Carole Shauffer, executive director of the Youth Law Center in San Francisco, a public interest firm.
She added, "They also have very high, very specific procedural safety standards that require lots of contact between the family preservation worker and the child to insure that they are safe in homes where there still are some questions about their safety."
Most family preservation programs inject a brief but intensive dose of counseling and social services, typically for six weeks. By contrast, the Los Angeles program is intended to connect a family to a community system for the long term.
"Our approach organizes the churches, schools, mental health centers and numerous other community-based organizations to work with the entire family," said Bruce Rubenstein, the Los Angeles agency's deputy director for community development.
"When public assistance pulls out, the family is still connected to neighborhood organizations, and children are protected by these ongoing connections," he said. "The singular caseworker approach often fails to deal with issues of social isolation. And social isolation is one of the key factors in the most egregious cases of child abuse and homicide."
Before the new program, Ms. Jones said, she had only minimal contact with county child welfare officials, and she resented what she perceived as their heavy-handed efforts to run her life.
"They didn't look beyond what they could see, they didn't try to understand what kind of person I really was," she said.
A year later, the Jones family is still together, and Ms. Jones said she was confident about her new skills as a parent. Chaos at home has been replaced with regular mealtimes, bedtimes and limits, she said, backed by positive discipline.
"Before I got in this program, I'd get mad and go off and cuss and holler if somebody tried to tell me what to do," she said at her modest apartment in South-Central Los Angeles. "But I've learned how to control my temper, my attitude and my mouth. I'm not as quick to go off, and I accept criticism a lot more easier."
She has also quit smoking marijuana, a once-daily habit that she said made her scatterbrained and unreliable.
The strategy now covers about 80 percent of Los Angeles County, an area of about nine million people, more than three million of them children. There are roughly 180,000 reports of child abuse a year. All of the figures are comparable to or exceed those in New York City, yet the department's budget is $830 million, well under New York's $1.2 billion.
Critics suggest the family preservation strategy leaves many children vulnerable. "These programs have been grossly oversold," said Richard J. Gelles, director of the Family Violence Research Program at the University of Rhode Island and the author of "Book of David: How Preserving Families Can Cost Children's Lives." "There is no evidence, using controlled, quality empirical research, that placements are avoided, that costs are saved or that child and family well-being is improved."
Mr. Gelles and other critics also say that child welfare workers and judges often direct prevention services to families who are not on the verge of losing their children to foster care. So while the programs help the families, they do not necessarily save money on foster care.
Moreover, there is no shortage of skeptics who doubt that such a plan could work in New York City. Some suspect it is nothing more than an attempt to privatize another government function. Others believe it will be too costly for a city administration intent on reducing spending.
One of the few in-depth studies of family preservation programs, a 1993 evaluation of 1,600 Illinois families, found no evidence that the program saved money or prevented the splintering of families.
Researchers with the Chapin Hall Center for Children at the University of Chicago concluded that the Illinois family preservation program helped some families cope with concrete problems related to poverty, like an eviction notice or a balky welfare department, but did not fundamentally change family relationships.
Proponents of the Los Angeles model say, however, that the Illinois study is largely irrelevant. For one thing, the assistance offered in Illinois typically lasted three months, compared with six months to a year or more in the Los Angeles program. In addition, the Illinois study involved families that were getting help from a single caseworker; in most instances, the Los Angeles model involves several counselors and agencies working together.
Moreover, while family preservation has sometimes been criticized for its failure to protect children in their own homes, the Los Angeles program requires that both law enforcement officials and social workers visit the family after any report of abuse. And both must agree that the child is safe. Otherwise, foster care is mandated.
Of course, there is no guarantee that providing more services to fragile families will keep children safe. There is always the danger that problems will resurface after the caseworkers leave.
"We're dealing with people who pretty much have had to scheme and connive and manipulate to make it from day to day," Mr. Thomas, the caseworker, said as he sat with Ms. Jones. "And, for whatever reasons, whether they are lazy and unmotivated or got a bad deal from the system, the bottom line is that they're dysfunctional. And it takes a long time to get people to turn around."
As for Ms. Jones, he added: "I believe she knows to watch out for her kids, she's better equipped in terms of knowing what to do to maintain a safe environment. But Gloria likes to party, she's wild and she's still dysfunctional, and a lot of that she doesn't want to change."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) NEW YORK'S ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) NEW YORK'S ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CHILD CARE; CHILD ABUSE CHILD WELFARE (93%); CHILDREN (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (89%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD CARE (77%); COUNTIES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); RELIGION (69%); HEALTH CARE (65%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; SCOPPETTA, NICHOLAS (COMR) CHARLES ALLEN THOMAS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



279 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
U.N. RETURNS TO ZAIRE
United Nations officials and aid workers made a tentative attempt to return to a town in eastern Zaire, crossing the border from Rwanda in the hope of delivering aid to thousands of refugees. A1
 
FIREFIGHT IN BOSNIA
Several hundred Muslims stormed a village in Bosnia to reclaim homes formerly occupied by Muslims in an area now held by Bosnian Serbs, setting off a firefight. A1
 
REBUILDING IN INDIA
In a fishing town on the Bay of Bengal, where 480 men were lost in a cyclone last week, concern now is for those who are trying to rebuild their lives in a place where virtually nothing was left intact. A3
 
REPORT ON CHILD LABOR
Nearly twice as many children are working full time in developing countries as previously thought, the International Labor Organization said in a new report. A5
 
RUSSIAN-U.S. SPY DISPUTE
In a move that Russia has called a "dirty trick," the United States arrested a 50-year-old retired spy as he arrived at Kennedy airport, breaking an unwritten code against grabbing former agents. A8
 
U.S. GOES AFTER MEXICAN'S MONEY
Prosecutors are seeking to confiscate $9 million deposited in the United States by a former Mexican attorney general, charging that he gained the money by selling protection to cocaine smugglers. A10
 
OPPOSITION GAINS IN MEXICO
Opposition groups, riding a swell of discontent over the economy, made major gains against Mexico's long-dominant political party in two state votes regarded as a harbinger of crucial 1997 elections. A10
 
Manila Journal: Confessions of a "comfort woman." A4
 
National A12-22
 
FAR-REACHING GENEROSITY
A washerwoman's $150,000 gift to a Mississippi college has changed her life and touched many others. A1
 
VETERANS DAY VISITOR
The woman who as a young girl was captured in a famous photograph fleeing a napalm attack in Vietnam laid a wreath at the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial. A1
 
A PLEDGE ON THE GULF WAR
At Veterans Day ceremonies, President Clinton pledged that the Government would keep searching for an explanation for the ailments that have afflicted thousands of veterans of the Persian Gulf war. A13
 
DEPARTING DEPUTY
Harold M. Ickes, a deputy White House chief of staff and long a friend of President Clinton, is leaving his job after being passed over for chief of staff, but may seek another Administration post. A15
 
WELFARE BONUS VANISHES
A little-noticed provision of the new Federal welfare law has deprived thousands of welfare mothers of a monthly bonus they had been receiving for helping states collect child support from fathers. A12
 
SCARECROW OF THE SEA
A group in Seattle hopes a fake whale will keep hungry sea lions away from salmon runs. A12
 
ARMY BURIED IN TIPS
Nearly 2,000 calls have come into an Army phone line set up after accusations of sexual abuse at a Maryland training center were brought to light last week. A20
 
MEDICAL ALARMS
Two new studies are underscoring concerns about triglycerides, a fatty substance in the blood that can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. A17
 
Metro Report B1-5
 
PATAKI URGES WELFARE CHANGES
Proposing the biggest changes in the state's welfare system in its 60-year history, Gov. George E. Pataki will offer legislation this week to cut the monthly grants of hundreds of thousands of poor families and end cash benefits for many legal immigrants and able-bodied childless adults. A1
 
MAYOR OUTLINES HIS THEMES
With the Presidential election out of the way, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has begun to marshal several important elements of his as-yet unannounced re-election campaign, trumpeting the precipitous drop in crime while moving quickly to establish credentials in education. And with growing asperity, he now belittles most of his likely opponents as machine politicians of the past. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
WAL-MART'S CD POLICY
The CD rack at the Wal-Mart in Murphy, N.C, like the racks in 2,300 other Wal-Mart branches around the country, is a world of shrink-wrapped packages marked "edited," "clean" and "sanitized for your protection." Other compact disks are not marked, but they have been altered from the original version available at most other record stores. Some of the teen-agers buying records here say they are not happy about this. A1
 
Sports B8-14
 
Hockey: Rangers lose to Canucks. B13
 
Islanders lose to Avalanche. B13
 
Science Times C1-9
 
Evolution and evolution in reverse: the peppered moth. C1
 
Fashion B7
 
Obituaries B6
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
Trent Lott's test.
 
The sinking Palestinian economy.
 
An answer to juvenile crime.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Worse than booze.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The no-win gamble.
 
Stanley Wolpert: History's hold on Pakistan.
 
Jon Katz: Out of the bottle.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Chess C16
 
Crossword C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RWANDA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); VIET NAM (52%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART SUPERCENTER (59%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RWANDA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); INDIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); VIET NAM (52%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); VETERANS (85%); DESERT STORM (85%); REFUGEES (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); CHILDREN (76%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); ARMIES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); COCAINE (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



280 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Insurer Plans 1,800 New Jobs in Manhattan

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
One of the nation's largest insurance companies, American International Group, is planning to keep its headquarters in downtown Manhattan for the next 15 years and to add more than 1,800 new jobs in return for tax breaks, city officials said.
The company has agreed to retain 5,180 jobs in New York City, most of them at 175 Water Street, a building the company bought in 1995 from National Westminster Bank after the bank left the city. The company is also projecting that 1,858 new jobs will be added downtown through growth and consolidation of leased properties outside the city. 
 Development officials were quick to praise the city for making the deal, citing it as a sign that efforts to reinvigorate downtown Manhattan are working. The incentives package was first reported yesterday in The New York Post.
"This is a huge deal for downtown and the City of New York," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business improvement district. "A.I.G. is one of the strongest insurance companies in the country. This helps secure downtown as the financial center of the country into the next century."
It is difficult to compare incentive deals directly, those familiar with the process said, because each package blends a host of benefits from the city, the state and utilities. They also noted that all jobs are not equal, with executives providing more tax revenue and other economic benefits to the city than lower-paid workers.
Nevertheless, a total of 7,038 jobs in the new deal and a total incentive of $55.7 million works out to about $7,914 a job. In the city's last big retention deal, with C.S. First Boston in 1995, $50.5 million to keep 3,000 jobs translated into $16,833 per job. At a time of shrinking public budgets, city and state officials have sometimes faced criticism that they are too quick to grant tax breaks to retain employers.
Charles Millard, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, noted that $47.3 million in incentives for American International was earmarked for keeping 5,180 jobs. The remaining $8.4 million is based on the additional 1,858 jobs and is dependent on those jobs moving to or being created in New York.
Real estate executives said the decision by American International is another encouraging sign that the downtown area is slowly improving, after being badly battered by the shrinkage of the securities and related industries in the early 1990's, and the moving of many prominent firms to midtown.
"We are starting to see clear signs of recovery," said Joseph Costabile, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, a large brokerage. "It's starting to happen, but it is a matter of pace. Downtown will not recover as fast as midtown."
Others in the industry said American International signaled a commitment to downtown when it paid $52.7 million for the 600,000-square-foot building on Water Street, near the South Street Seaport. The company is expected to keep its headquarters at nearby 70 Pine Street, but to use the Water Street building to consolidate workers now in other buildings in New York City and elsewhere.

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan showing location of American International

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (51%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (57%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INSURANCE (92%); JOB CREATION (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



281 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Booming Brooklyn

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Howard Golden, Borough President since 1977, deserves much of the credit for Brooklyn's resurgence (editorial, Nov. 7). Signs of economic growth at the local level suggest that the entire borough is on the move. He has fought passionately and is finally seeing his vision for a greater Brooklyn come to life.
 
KENNETH ADAMS
President
Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce
Brooklyn, Nov. 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); 

PERSON: ADAMS, KENNETH K S ADAMS JR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



282 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Survivor Leads Fight For Lost Holocaust Money;
In Lawsuit Against Swiss Banks, A Hope to Do Justice to a Father's Memory

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES 

 BODY:
For half a century, Gizella Weisshaus followed a trail of whispers.
She followed it three times to Switzerland, searching for a bank account her father opened there during World War II, hoping his family could escape the Nazis and use the money to rebuild their lives. 
 For Mrs. Weisshaus, who lost everyone and everything in the war, memory was the only proof she had. But Swiss banking officials said that without an account number, they could not help her.
The teen-age girl who survived the Holocaust grew older. She became a mother, and a grandmother. Now Mrs. Weisshaus, 66, says time is of the essence.
"Our people are not getting younger," said Mrs. Weisshaus, who has asked the United States courts to intervene. "I'm considered one of the youngest survivors, so there's going to be nobody left to claim this money. That's why I felt this was the only way to force them to disclose these so-called dormant accounts. We are the survivors, and we are entitled to the money and information."
Mrs. Weisshaus is believed to be the first Holocaust survivor in the United States to sue the banks of Switzerland for unclaimed accounts made by Jews throughout Europe fearing that their assets would be seized by Germany. Many of those Jews later died in the Holocaust. The class-action suit, filed in Federal court last month, accuses Swiss banks of failing to return money and valuables deposited by Jews during World War II, as well as wealth stolen from them by the Nazis.
Since the suit was filed, Mrs. Weisshaus's lawyers say that more than 3,000 survivors have come forward asking to join it. And the case has become the emotional center of a growing furor over Switzerland's dealings with the Nazis during and after World War II.
"These aren't people who say there's a lawsuit, let me go jump on the bandwagon," said Ed Fagan, one of Mrs. Weisshaus's lawyers. "These are people who have for 50 years been trying to get their money."
Swiss Government and banking officials maintain that they have searched exhaustively for such accounts in the past, but are willing to do so again to put the matter to rest.
"The Swiss have pledged that at the end of this process, not one penny will remain in Switzerland that may have belonged to a victim of the Holocaust," Jeffrey Taufield, a spokesman for the Swiss Bankers Association, said.
In the years before and during World War II, many Jews deposited money and valuables in Switzerland, where banking secrecy laws could protect their assets from the Nazis. And soon after the war ended, the battle over abandoned accounts and looted assets left in that country began.
But only in the last year has the issue shifted into the spotlight, partly because documents long classified have been made public and partly because 50th anniversary examinations of the war have fostered a greater understanding of the Holocaust.

A Father Shares A Secret and Vanishes
The Senate Banking Committee, headed by the Republican Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, has held hearings with survivors and says it has found evidence to support claims that Swiss banking authorities withheld many deposits. And a Swiss historian, Dr. Peter Hug, has recently spoken of supposedly secret deals that Switzerland struck with former Communist eastern European countries to use dormant accounts of Holocaust victims to compensate Swiss businesses for expropriated assets.
Equally important, some say, has been the growing willingness of survivors and witnesses to take on a battle that some had viewed as too painful to fight.
"People had come through such a horror and done whatever they had to do to survive," said David Cohen, who accompanied a survivor who was considering joining the lawsuit. "The tiny fraction of dignity they were able to hold on to during the war was worth more than all the money they had in the bank. So if even the thought of being turned down or rejected or treated like a pariah was there, they would have stayed far from it."
But Mrs. Weisshaus felt she had no choice. A black-and-white picture of her with her father rests on a table. "I have to do justice to his memory," she said.
She was born in Sighet, Romania, in 1929, where her father was a prosperous merchant. When the war began, food was harder to come by and fuel was low. "But I had my family," said Mrs. Weisshaus, the oldest of seven children. "And we were happy."
Then "in 1944, about the end of March, the Germans came into our town," Mrs. Weisshaus said. She was 14 when her family was sent to live in one room in a ghetto. Later, her father was arrested.
But he came home once more, to say goodbye, and to share his secret.
"My father came home with a guard to say goodbye to the family," she said. "He spoke first with my mother. And then he took all the children around him and he told us he had money hidden in the walls, and money in a Swiss bank. And that was it. That was the last I saw of my father."
The next day, the rest of her family boarded cattle cars for a three-day journey to Auschwitz in German-occupied Poland. When they arrived, the newcomers were divided into two groups. Mrs. Weisshaus was separated from her family, despite her mother's plea to the guards to let the young girl go with her. "They wouldn't do it," she said, "and they sent me to the other side where I went to work." Mrs. Weisshaus said she was taken to a forced-labor camp. The other group, which included her mother, siblings and grandparents, was killed.
The fighting kept inching closer to the camp, and so the guards forced their prisoners to march, locking them in barns at night. "And so it happened one day that they didn't open the barn," she said. The prisoners banged on the door. It opened, and standing outside were Russian soldiers. "And then we found out it was the end of the war."

From Swiss Banks, Nothing but Rebuff
Mrs. Weisshaus, then 15, returned to her hometown. "I was sure somebody was going to be alive," she said. A great-uncle whom she had never met went to the train station every day to ask people if they knew who had survived. It was there where he learned of his brother's granddaughter, Gizella. He told her to come live with him, that he would take care of her. "I said I have to go home and find my family," she recalled. "I should be there when they come."
But no one ever did. In all, Mrs. Weisshaus lost 55 relatives. She salvaged pictures of her family from her old home, and remembered her father's message that there was money hidden there.
The Russian soldiers who now lived there would drink through the night and sleep during the day, she said. So she would sneak through the backyard and into the attic to search. She scraped the walls and tapped the floor until she finally found the small treasure, hidden in hollowed-out places inside the ceiling's beams. There was more than $1,500 dollars, a gold watch, French coins and small pieces of gold.
With no family left, she sought out a matchmaker who found her a husband, Josef. Mrs. Weisshaus used some of the money she found in the attic to buy cloth for a wedding dress.
"I would give that money away for anybody," she said. "I should have had some relatives survive. I mean most of my friends, they had sisters, or cousins, or aunts or somebody to belong to. I had nobody."
She and her family moved to the United States in 1950, settling among other Satmar Hasidic Jews in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. But Mrs. Weisshaus never forgot her father's whispers about the money in Switzerland. She visited different Swiss banks, three times in eight years, and everywhere she went, she was rebuffed.
"I had to have something that is impossible to get," she said of the bank officials' demands for an account number. "And that's why they got away with this for all this time."
Then, earlier this year, the Swiss government appointed an ombudsman to look into the claims of Holocaust survivors regarding the dormant accounts. Mrs. Weisshaus wrote the ombudsman, but her patience wore thin when she read news accounts that said it would take five years for the Swiss to identify all the abandoned assets.
"It made me angry that even now they claim they need five years to find these dormant accounts, as if 50 years wasn't enough," she said.

For a Survivor, Lawsuit Is a Mitzvah
Mrs. Weisshaus's lawsuit seeks disclosure of all assets deposited by Holocaust victims in Swiss banks. The suit also charges that a large portion of the German wealth deposited in Switzerland and used to finance the war effort was stolen from victims of the Holocaust, and seeks compensation for survivors and their families. Lawyers and some Jewish organizations say that with interest and inflation, the assets are probably now worth billions.
In addition to the ombudsman, a special committee set up by the Swiss Bankers Association and the World Jewish Congress, and headed by former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, will bring in auditors to search for unclaimed assets.
Swiss officials say that their country has tried to resolve the issue of dormant accounts before. In 1962, the Swiss Parliament set a 10-year period in which the country's banks were to trace the owners of dormant accounts that apparently belonged to Jewish victims of the Holocaust, said Mr. David Vogelsanger, the Swiss Embassy's political affairs and press officer. Ten million Swiss francs were found, most of which were turned over to the owners or their families, while $2.5 million in francs remained unclaimed, he said. Two-thirds of the remaining money was given to Jewish charities, and the remainder was turned over to the Swiss Refugee Aid Organization.
Last year, Mr. Vogelsanger said, the Swiss banks again searched for dormant accounts and found unclaimed money totaling $38 million in Swiss francs. Officials say, however, that it is unlikely that the money belonged only to Holocaust victims.
But Mrs. Weisshaus says she knows her family's money is there, and she will continue to seek it.
Not so long ago, she set out to find a grave of a great-uncle who had immigrated to America. She was the first member of the man's family to visit his grave in 87 years. Her visits there are a mitzvah, she explained -- a good deed. Just like the filing of a lawsuit on behalf of people who survived the war, in memory of those who did not.
"Why did they choose me?" she said of the Nazi guards who sent her to work while they sent her family to death. "I was the chosen one to keep up the family, and I am doing the right things. There were some people who said they didn't believe in God anymore. But I couldn't think that way. So finding my grand-uncle and filing this lawsuit I had to do. Because of their memory. And because I was chosen to do this."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about Gizella Weisshaus, a Holocaust survivor who is suing Swiss banks to recover her family's money deposited during the war, misstated the location of Mrs. Weiss haus in an old family photograph. She was the eldest daughter, shown between her parents in the back row of the photo, not the younger girl who was second from the left in the front row.


GRAPHIC: Photos: "I was the chosen one to keep up the family," said Gizella Weisshaus, left, who has pursued a lifelong search for her father's bank account in Switzerland after her entire family died in the Holocaust. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Above, Gizella, front row, second from left, in an undated family photo. Below, she and her husband, Josef, posed for a wedding portrait.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; ; SWITZERLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKS AND BANKING; CLASS-ACTION SUITS LITIGATION (92%); HOLOCAUST (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LAWYERS (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); BANKING LAW (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE; WEISSHAUS, GIZELLA

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996



283 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up as German Officials Say Mark Should Come Down

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar snapped a four-day slide yesterday to end mostly higher after three officials of the German central bank, including its president, said the dollar's value against the mark was too weak.
Traders who had bet that the dollar could fall further were caught off guard by the bluntness of the message, especially the assertion by Hans Tietmeyer, the Bundesbank's president, that "the dollar is on the way up again." 
 Traders moved quickly to repurchase dollars they had just sold, giving a further lift to the dollar in what is known in the market as a short-covering rally.
"The market was caught the wrong way," said Jim Powers, a vice president at Westdeutsche Landesbank in New York. "It happened pretty quick, too, and maybe more to come."
In late New York trading, the dollar cost 1.5075 marks, up from 1.4935. The pound cost $1.6460, down from $1.6464.
The dollar ended slightly lower against the yen at 111.34, down from 111.50 Monday but above its 110.85 low for the day reached in early Asian trading.
The dollar's turnaround against the mark began late Monday when Hans-Jurgen Krupp, a member of the Bundesbank's policy-making council, suggested that a firmer dollar might be appropriate and that German interest rates might decline if the economy weakened. Lower rates would tend to devalue the mark.
Early yesterday, a Bundesbank council member, Edgar Meister, told reporters that a 1.5000-mark exchange rate for the dollar was not appropriate. Then a few hours later came Mr. Tietmeyer's remarks at a foreign banking conference in Frankfurt, and the dollar shot up.
"It appears the Bundesbank wants a positive tone for the dollar," said Robert Katz, a currency trader at MTB Bank in New York.
The dollar started out weaker in Asia in what traders said was a continuing reaction to a possible shift in Japan's foreign-exchange policy. Despite official reassurances that there has been no change in policy, the market remains skeptical.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday, were: 1.2690 Swiss francs, up from 1.2545; 1.3325 Canadian dollars, down from 1.3337; 5.0970 French francs, up from 5.0515; 1,518.50 Italian lire, up from 1,508.50. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK WESTLB AG (56%); MTB BANK (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: HANS TIETMEYER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



284 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Heir to the Throne at Lazard Freres May Not Be Anymore

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
Is Edouard M. Stern still the heir to the throne at Lazard Freres? Not according to several current and former Lazard partners and employees at the international investment bank, some of whom contend that he may not even continue to work for the firm.
These people, who all declined to be identified by name, in recent days cited a furious dispute Mr. Stern was said to have in New York last week with Michel A. David-Weill, his father-in-law, senior partner and controlling owner of the three interlocking Lazard partnerships in New York, Paris and London. Mr. David-Weill, 63, is a descendant of the family that took over the investment banking firm when the families of the three Lazard brothers who founded the firm in 1837 ran out of male heirs. 
 Mr. Stern, 41, a partner, has taken an increasingly prominent role at Lazard, running the daily operations of its Paris office. In recent years, Lazard partners and the press have frequently identified Mr. Stern, the scion of a prominent financial family, as Mr. David-Weill's successor.
The family quarrel at Lazard, according to people at and close to the firm, arose from Mr. Stern's management of the Paris office and in particular his tense working relationship with Anne Lauvergeon, the only woman partner at the office.
Ms. Lauvergeon, 37, was a top economic adviser to Francois Mitterrand when he was president of France. Ms. Lauvergeon, who could not be reached for comment, is now preparing to leave the firm after her difficulties with Mr. Stern, according to colleagues at Lazard, and to recent reports in the French press. According to some people knowledgeable about the matter, Mr. Stern had particularly taken exception to an invitation that Ms. Lauvergeon received to join the board of Pechiney, the big French aluminum company. As the emerging head of Lazard's Paris office, Mr. Stern apparently felt that he should serve on the board, these people said.
Kate McDonough, a spokeswoman for Lazard in New York, said that neither the firm nor Mr. David-Weill nor Mr. Stern had any comment on the reported quarrel or on the Pechiney dispute.
Families, of course, are famous for their feuds, and the current quarrel may eventually turn out to be a passing one.
Mr. David-Weill, apparently seeking to smooth ruffled feathers, recently went out of his way to praise Ms. Lauvergeon and the contribution she had made to the firm in a passing reference during an interview with Le Monde. The partners of Lazard, he told the newspaper, were upset by recent press reports. He said the partners wanted to note that "Ms. Lauvergeon's professional and personal qualities, since her arrival at the house of Lazard, have made an appreciable and appreciated contribution to the firm."
Despite the family feuding, this is turning into a spectacular year for Lazard as healthy financial markets and an active merger and acquisition market have brought in fat profits. Lazard, for example, is currently advising MCI Communications on its proposed merger with British Telecommunications. In the Le Monde interview, Mr. David-Weill said it was too early to comment on the firm's international results, but added that this would be "a very good year for Lazard Freres Paris." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS (94%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LAZARD FRERES & CO (94%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAZARD FRERES & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER ANNE LAUVERGEON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



285 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Tone Is Edgy as Mideast Economic Conference Opens in Cairo

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Nov. 12

 BODY:
As political and business leaders gathered to celebrate commerce as a bridge across political divides, the subdued mood here spoke to what has changed in the Middle East since their last conclave a year ago.
Noticeably absent was Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, a crucial participant in two previous sessions but, after last spring's change in government, an object of deep Arab enmity. Foreign Minister David Levy was the highest-ranking Israeli official to attend. 
 Those who returned, including Secretary of State Warren Christopher, reported no new progress toward untangling a dispute about the status of the West Bank town of Hebron that last November had seemed settled.
More than 4,000 participants, including 1,500 foreign business leaders, made the gathering the largest of its kind ever held in the Middle East, and its host, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt praised those who attended for having "dared to look beyond the horizon." But even Mr. Mubarak added an edge to his public hopefulness, warning that it might be said "centuries from today, that our countries had peace within their grasp and squandered it."
The last regional economic conference, held in Amman, Jordan, in October 1995, opened less than a month after Israel and the Palestinians reached agreement on a second interim accord. It featured speeches by Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, King Hussein of Jordan, and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, who portrayed themselves as pillars of a broadening peace. But Mr. Rabin was assassinated a week later by an Israeli Jew opposed to those peace efforts, and the path toward a wider peace has been further obstructed by intransigence on all sides.
Suicide bombings by militant Muslims in Israel last February and March, Israel's offensive in Lebanon in April, and the elections in May that installed Mr. Netanyahu as Prime Minister all rekindled distrust between Israel and its neighbors. Since then, tensions have exploded -- most recently in violent clashes in the West Bank and Gaza this fall -- under the harder line adopted by Mr. Netanyahu's Government.
Until last spring, the main mission of the Cairo conference had been to help integrate Israel into the region's economy. But institutions established for that purpose, including a regional tourist board and a business council, have been dealt a setback since Mr. Netanyahu's election, with their governing bodies riven by renewed Israeli-Palestinian tensions. A Middle East Development Bank promoted by the United States in Casablanca and approved in Amman a year later has yet to win pledges of financial support even from the United States Congress; its doors will not open until at least the end of 1997.
And since the summer, Egyptian organizers switched the focus of this year's gathering to promoting investment in projects with little direct connection to the Israeli economy. At one point this fall, Egypt's Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, threatened to cancel the gathering unless Israel reached agreement with the Palestinians over Hebron, the West Bank town where Israel has yet to make good on a year-old commitment to redeploy most of its troops. But Cairo relented, in part as a result of months of American pressure.
Mr. Christopher shuttled from meetings with Mr. Arafat, Mr. Mubarak and Mr. Levy, only to report through his spokesman, Nicholas Burns, that he had not made "any specific progress" in resolving the impasse over Hebron. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

COMPANY: MIDDLE EAST DEVELOPMENT CO WLL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; CAIRO (EGYPT); EGYPT; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TRENDS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); BOMBINGS (68%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); RELIGION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (89%); HOSNI MUBARAK (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



286 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Chronic Illness Has Vast Cost, A Study Finds

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Nearly 100 million Americans have chronic diseases or disabilities, and caring for them accounts for three-fourths of the nation's health spending, researchers reported today.
Most people with chronic conditions live normal lives, but they have higher health costs than other people, and they are more likely to be absent from work, the researchers said in a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association. 
The authors said the nation was unprepared for the growing burden that chronic conditions would impose as the elderly population increased.
"Our health care system remains firmly rooted in episodic and acute care, but it is unlikely to continue this way in the next century," said the report, by Catherine Hoffman and colleagues at the Institute for Health and Aging at the University of California at San Francisco. The co-authors were Dorothy P. Rice, a former director of the National Center for Health Statistics, and Hai-Yen Sung, an economist.
Using data from Federal surveys, the researchers estimated that 100 million people had chronic conditions like heart disease, arthritis, cancer, diabetes, ulcers, AIDS, birth defects, schizophrenia and depression.
While 46 percent of Americans reported chronic conditions in 1987, they accounted for 76 percent of the direct medical care costs: $272 billion out of a total of $358 billion, not counting nursing home care.
The study said people who were chronically ill or disabled accounted for "disproportionately large shares of health care use": 96 percent of home care visits, 83 percent of prescription drug use, 80 percent of the days spent in hospitals, 66 percent of doctor visits and 55 percent of visits to hospital emergency rooms.
The authors concluded that "the total prevalence of chronic conditions has perhaps been minimized" or underestimated in the past.
"Chronic conditions affect all ages" they said, noting that 1 in 4 under age 18 has a chronic ailment.
"More than one-third of young adults age 18 to 44 and two-thirds of middle-age adults 45 to 64 had at least one chronic condition," the study said. "While the elderly were far more likely to have a chronic condition than other age groups, they actually accounted for only about a quarter of all people living in the community with chronic conditions. Working-age adults 18 to 64 years old accounted for 60 percent of all noninstitutionalized persons with chronic conditions."
The authors also tried to measure the indirect costs that result from premature deaths and lost productivity. They concluded that chronic conditions "impose a multibillion-dollar burden on the economy," exceeding $230 billion a year.
Who will care for the growing numbers with chronic illnesses is unclear. The demand for care-givers is increasing, Ms. Rice said.
The authors held out little hope that costs could be controlled by providing care to people in their own homes or in the community rather than in nursing homes and other institutions.
"Studies suggest that the provision of community-based services has generally raised health care costs because reductions in institutional care have been more than offset by the increased use of community-based care," they said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; RESEARCH CHRONIC DISEASES (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); CANCER (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); ARTHRITIS (78%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); AGING TRENDS (75%); AGING (75%); ACUTE CARE (75%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); DEPRESSION (73%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (73%); DIABETES (73%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT DOROTHY P RICE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



287 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Way on Welfare

 BODY:
The overhaul of welfare enacted in Washington this year poses a staggering challenge in New York State, where 1.4 million poor people count on the program to survive. It is thus dismaying that Gov. George Pataki has opted to implement the federally mandated welfare changes in a needlessly harsh spirit. The new law's work requirements and aid cutoffs will be difficult enough to manage under the best circumstances. According to reports leaking in Albany, Mr. Pataki will propose sharp cuts in welfare grants beyond what the Federal law requires in an apparent effort to balance the state budget on the backs of the poor and their children.
The Governor plans to unveil details of his welfare proposals today. We urge that he immediately rethink his proposal to reduce welfare payments to $317 by the year 2002, from the current $577. The cut is even bigger than it looks, because in real terms after inflation, it would amount to more than 45 percent. His proposals would slash the resources available to three quarters of a million of New York's children at a time when they already face a perilous future because of the other reductions in the recently enacted law. 
 There are sound elements in the plan. Mr. Pataki is right to incorporate a scheme under which families could keep a certain amount of money earned from work without losing their welfare grants and continue to receive Medicaid benefits for a year after going off welfare. But these worthy ideas do not need to be enacted in the context of his proposed welfare cuts.
Mr. Pataki is also preparing drastic changes in the state's Home Relief program for childless adults. Since this program is financed entirely by state and local tax dollars, there is no requirement to cut it under the new Federal law. But the Governor is clearly worried that poor people cut off from federally assisted welfare aid will take advantage of this longstanding New York program. He wants to scrap the whole idea of giving cash benefits to able-bodied recipients and replace them with vouchers for food, shelter and clothing. Mr. Pataki has not disclosed the value of these vouchers, but in the past he has favored sharp cutbacks in this area.
The Governor must realize that the cuts he is contemplating will be furiously opposed by the Democratic-controlled Assembly and by groups that provide services to the poor. By adopting an extremist approach he may be signaling a desire to use welfare as a political issue to bash Democrats instead of working with them to implement the changes required by the new Federal law. After a campaign year in which those favoring continuation of the safety net swept the voting in New York State, Mr. Pataki's proposals are puzzling and likely to be self-defeating.
Real welfare reform must be accompanied by incentives for people to get jobs, with subsidies for day care, job training and transportation to make it possible for people to work. Mr. Pataki seems ready to increase funding for some of these measures. That is where he and the Legislature need to concentrate their attention so that the arbitrary cutoffs do not punish people who have no other recourse to survive.
The Governor should not balance a looming state budget deficit of $3 billion, which was created because of his ill-advised tax cuts, by eviscerating a program that by itself counts for only about 6 percent of total state-financed expenditures. Done right, welfare reform could bring about some positive changes in social policy, but only if the main objective is to help rather than sacrifice the poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAID (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



288 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Governors' Group Says States Are in Good Fiscal Condition

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
States are in robust financial condition as they prepare to take greater responsibility for welfare and other domestic programs, the National Governors' Association reported today.
Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the association, said: "The fiscal condition of states is good. Surpluses are up. For the third consecutive year, states are generally reducing taxes and fees." 
 The favorable outlook reflects the strength of the national economy and several other factors.
The growth of Medicaid, the Federal-state health program for the poor, had been an immense burden for many states, but it slowed in the last 12 months because of greater use of managed care, a decline in medical inflation and a reduction in welfare rolls.
State officials said they had benefited from the control of health costs in another way, too. For the first time in a decade, the health insurance costs for their own employees are lower.
In the last year, many states reported a surge in tax collections, particularly in capital gains revenue, because of the continuing rise in stock prices, the association said. In the last three years, 23 states have increased cigarette and tobacco taxes, in some cases to generate additional money for health care.
In its "Fiscal Survey of States," a report that is issued twice a year, the governors' association said welfare benefits were likely to remain at the same level in 1997 as in 1996. Four states -- Hawaii, Utah, Vermont and West Virginia -- are reducing welfare payment levels, while Montana is increasing them and the other 45 states are keeping benefits at 1996 levels, the association said.
Mr. Scheppach said that state officials were apprehensive, despite the strong financial condition of most states. State finances will suffer if the economy turns sour or if Congress cuts aid to the states to balance the Federal budget, he said.
Contrasting today's mood with that of the 1980's, Mr. Scheppach said: "In the 80's we saw lots of new state programs, new initiatives and the expansion of existing programs. I don't think we're going to see that next year. The emphasis is on efficiency and austerity."
State legislative actions will reduce state revenue by $4.2 billion, or 1 percent, in the coming fiscal year, the governors reported. New York State, with $2.2 billion in tax cuts, accounts for slightly more than half of the total. In New York and other states, most of the reductions were in personal income taxes. Connecticut, Massachusetts and Ohio were among the 16 states cutting personal income taxes.
After years of trying to control Medicaid costs, state officials said they were pleasantly surprised with their success last year.
Medicaid grew an average of 17 percent a year from 1990 to 1995, and the Congressional Budget Office had been predicting growth of 10 percent a year from 1996 through 2002. But in the 1996 fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30, Federal Medicaid spending grew just 3 percent.
Mr. Scheppach said that Medicaid growth "will probably go back to the range of 7 percent a year." Medicaid accounts for about 20 percent of all state spending. The Federal Government supplies slightly more than half of the Medicaid money.
The governors' association said that states were accumulating surpluses to help them get through any decline in the economy. At the end of the 1996 fiscal year, states had balances totaling $21.2 billion, or 5.7 percent of spending in that year -- the highest level since 1980. Twelve states had balances exceeding 10 percent of their outlays.
State spending rose 4.5 percent in the 1996 fiscal year and is expected to increase 4 percent in 1997, the report said. By contrast, in the last 15 years, state spending rose an average of 6.8 percent a year.
With no foreseeable increase in Federal aid and with little public support for tax increases, Mr. Scheppach said, state officials have been forced to redesign state government operations to perform more work with the same amount of money.
States have eliminated some agencies, merged others and hired private companies to perform tasks historically done by government. At least 10 states now allow such companies to bid against state agencies for the opportunity to run prisons, hospitals and mental health centers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); FORECASTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES GOVERNORS (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INCOME TAX (87%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (56%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT RAYMOND C SCHEPPACH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



289 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON SUGGESTS HE MAY NOT RESIST FISCAL AMENDMENT

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Bowing to political reality, President Clinton today softened his opposition to a constitutional amendment to balance the Federal budget, even as he received a polite but noncommittal response from Congressional Republicans to a range of issues on his agenda for the coming year.
"I don't believe that we need it, but if we have it, it ought to be able to be implemented in a way that actually works and gives the country what it needs to manage a recession," Mr. Clinton said of the budget amendment, which seems likely to pass Congress. 
 The President made his comments at a morning White House ceremony where he signed a parks appropriations bill. Later, after a 90-minute meeting in the Oval Office this afternoon, the leader of the Senate's majority Republicans, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said Mr. Clinton "seems to be coming around to the idea that something will happen" on a balanced-budget amendment.
The measure lost by one vote in the Senate last year after Mr. Clinton had lobbied against it. But Republicans gained two Senate seats in the elections last week and now appear to have the votes to pass it and send it to the states for ratification.
If Mr. Clinton's comment was meant to be an olive branch to the returning leaders of the new Congress, it appeared to do him little immediate good. While sounding conciliatory notes, Mr. Lott and Speaker Newt Gingrich made clear that they were in no hurry to act on the President's pending proposals for balancing the budget, overhauling campaign finance laws and establishing a commission to address the long-term solvency of Medicare.
Mr. Clinton has proposed using a bill sponsored by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, as a starting point for new limits on political fund raising. But Mr. Gingrich said that before taking up any such challenge, Republicans would hold hearings to seek answers about recent questionable fund-raising practices, an issue that dogged the Democrats in the final weeks of this year's campaign.
"We need to lay out clearly what are the contours of campaign spending," Mr. Gingrich said as he emerged from the White House meeting. "There was an amazing amount of money this year spent outside the campaigns."
As for Medicare, the chief White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said Mr. Clinton wanted to include in the budget that he will submit in January a proposal for establishing a bipartisan commission to address questions about the program's long-term stability.
But Mr. McCurry acknowledged that the Republicans, still angry at Mr. Clinton's successful efforts to portray them as too willing to cut Medicare, had shown little immediate enthusiasm for such an idea, instead insisting that Mr. Clinton come forward with his own suggestions.
"The President," Mr. Lott said, "will need to make it clear that we have important and tough decisions we need to make in that area. When he lays out the problem and suggests a solution, we're certainly going to be prepared to work with him."
Finally, Mr. McCurry suggested that the President hoped to lay some groundwork on the outlines of a balanced budget by returning to the points of agreement that Congress and the White House reached before negotiations broke down last winter. He said Mr. Clinton thought this was possible even before Congress reconvenes in January, but acknowledged that the Republicans were cool to that idea, too.
At the same time, the meeting's participants universally praised the tone as constructive, repeated the reigning mantra that the voters preferred cooperation to conflict between the parties and suggested that the White House and Congress might in fact make some progress on the issues that divide them -- before the 1998 midterm election campaigns get under way.
"We all agreed that we have now at least a year where we can turn our attention away from politics and to policy," said the House majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas.
In his daily briefing for reporters this afternoon, Mr. McCurry went round and round in an effort to explain what Mr. Clinton had meant by his comments on the budget amendment, and whether they really amounted to any change, before finally chuckling and saying, "You won't pin me down on this; you can keep trying."
But Mr. McCurry said of the Republican-led Congress: "It looks like they're going to do it. So the question is how they do it."
The President has no formal role in the constitutional-amendment process; he cannot veto an amendment passed by Congress. But he can exercise his bully pulpit, and did so last year to ultimately defeat the budget measure. Since then, however, he has embraced the notion of balancing the budget by 2002, and accepted the reality that the Republicans can almost certainly pass an amendment.
This morning Mr. Clinton sketched out what kind of amendment he might find most acceptable.
"If it sets a framework and says that in the 21st century in the economy we're going to be living in, other things being equal, we ought always to be balancing our books, I agree with that," he said. But he said it should not be permitted to hem in Congress in periods of economic downturn.
In a recession, Mr. Clinton said, "you would never raise taxes, and you wouldn't throw people who are unemployed through no fault of their own off of health care eligibility because you were trying to balance the budget."
The amendment that failed last year had provisions allowing Congress to override it and run a deficit automatically in time of war, and by a three-fifths vote in other circumstances like a recession. Aides said Mr. Clinton might favor an escape clause like one allowing the requirement for budget balancing to be overridden by a simple majority vote of each house. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



290 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Is Urged to Seek Waiving of Work Rule to Obtain Food Stamps

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 12

 BODY:
As state officials put the finishing touches on a sweeping overhaul of New York's welfare system today, advocates for the poor called on Gov. George E. Pataki to seek an exemption from new Federal rules requiring thousands of adults to work in exchange for food stamps.
Under the new Federal welfare law, able-bodied childless adults under age 50 are required to work 20 hours a week in either a private or a community service job to receive food stamps. People who do not meet the requirement will be allowed food stamps for only three months over a three-year period. Previously, there had been no time limits and less stringent work requirements for food stamps. 
 But the new Federal law also allows states to apply for waivers from the new work requirements for people who live in regions where the unemployment rate is above 10 percent or where the state can show that there are not enough jobs for people currently on welfare.
Aides to Mr. Pataki hinted tonight that the Governor would not seek the waiver when he releases a sweeping plan on Wednesday to revamp the state's $4 billion welfare system. The bill will call for gradually cutting benefits for families, ending cash benefits for able-bodied childless adults, and imposing a policy known as family cap, where families that have additional children while on welfare do not receive increases in their benefits.
Advocates for the poor have implored Mr. Pataki to apply for the food stamp waiver throughout the state, contending there are not enough low-skilled jobs for welfare recipients. They estimate that 100,000 able-bodied adults receive food stamps now and that many of those people will lose their benefits in the next three months unless Mr. Pataki applies for the waiver.
They further contend that poor communities will be hurt economically if the Governor does not seek the waiver because thousands of small grocery stores depend heavily on food stamp business. The advocates said that seeking the waiver would not cost the state any additional money because food stamps are paid for entirely by the Federal Government.
Liz Krueger, associate director of the Community Food Resources Center, estimated that the state could lose as much as $250 million in Federal food stamp money in the next three years if it did not apply for the waiver. "Why would New York choose to turn down Federal money that we know we need for low-income people we know we have?" she said.
But the Federal law has clearly placed the Pataki administration in an awkward position. Currently, there is no county in the state with unemployment over 10 percent. So to receive the waiver, the administration would have to show that there are pockets of the state where the labor market is too weak to absorb all those on welfare.
But that argument would clash sharply with Mr. Pataki's contention that the state's economy is improving steadily and that there are jobs available to most people who want them. Indeed, it is a cornerstone notion of the Governor's welfare plan that with the right incentives and punishments, most of the approximately 500,000 adults on welfare will be able to find work.
For that reason, Pataki aides suggested today that it was unlikely that Mr. Pataki would apply for the waiver now. "There is no way the Governor is going to go out and say there are not enough jobs, because there are," said one aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FOOD STAMPS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION FOOD STAMPS (91%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



291 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Examines Ex-Trade Official's Conduct

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The inspector general at the Commerce Department has begun a review into a series of contacts between John Huang, a former trade official, and the large Indonesian financial group for whom he had once worked, Administration officials said today.
Mr. Huang was a trade official at the Commerce Department from the summer of 1994 until the end of last year, when he became a senior fund-raiser at the Democratic National Committee. He was suspended from that post last month after reports that he had solicited several large questionable contributions. 
 In a statement today, the Commerce Department said that Government documents "appear to present questions concerning the conduct" of Mr. Huang when he was a deputy assistant secretary for international economic policy.
"All documents which may be relevant have been turned over" to the inspector general's office, it said.
The statement did not elaborate. But officials who insisted on not being identified said the documents included toll records of a pattern of telephone calls that were made from Mr. Huang's office at the Commerce Department to executives of the Lippo Group. Before arriving in Washington, Mr. Huang was a senior American executive of the company.
The Lippo Group is controlled by the Riadys, a prominent Indonesian family with longstanding ties to President Clinton. Associates of the Riadys, including Mr. Huang, have raised millions of dollars for the Democratic Party.
But the toll records under review do not indicate the content of the telephone calls and the inspector general will try to determine whether they were proper or involved confidential information or any work Mr. Huang may have done on behalf of his former employer.
The records are not the same ones as the papers made available to news organizations under various Freedom of Information Act requests. Those papers show that, contrary to the Administration's initial portrayal of Mr. Huang, he was involved in meetings at which Indonesian trade issues were discussed. They also show that Mr. Huang had access to classified information about a variety of issues that the Lippo Group might have an interest.
In a deposition taken in a civil lawsuit last month, Mr. Huang said he avoided any contact with executives of the Lippo Group when he was at the Commerce Department. Mr. Huang has declined repeated requests for interviews, and today one of his lawyers, Ty Cobb, declined to comment about the inspector general's review.
The Justice Department is considering a request to seek the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate Mr. Huang, and nearly a dozen Congressional committees have begun inquiries into Mr. Huang's work at the Democratic Party and at the Commerce Department. Since it would be illegal to solicit money from foreign citizens, investigators are also examining a fund-raising trip that Mr. Huang took earlier this year to Taiwan.
Justice officials said today that they had denied a request for the appointment of an independent counsel on campaign contributions, although another is being considered.
The decision, made as President Clinton weighed whether Attorney General Janet Reno would stay on, was the second time in less than a week that the Justice Department had decided against the appointment of an outside prosecutor to investigate Mr. Clinton's campaign fund raising.
Justice Department officials said in the letter today that an Oct. 11 request for an independent counsel by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, did not pose specific allegations of criminal wrongdoing, the same grounds cited to deny a complaint by the group Common Cause last week.
Today's decision did not mean that the Justice Department had stopped the issue of overseas fund raising from going to an independent prosecutor. Ms. Reno is still facing complaints raised in a second letter sent on Oct. 28 by Mr. McCain and five other Republican lawmakers. The second complaint details many more specific charges, among them the propriety of fund-raising activities by Mr. Huang.
In recent weeks, the Democratic National Committee has returned donations of $250,000 from a South Korean company and $325,000 from a man who later claimed to have no assets. Both donations were solicited by Mr. Huang, who party officials say had raised about $2.5 million in his tenure at the committee.
At a news conference today, the national chairman of the Democratic National Committee said he had made the decision to hire Mr. Huang.
The chairman, Donald L. Fowler, said he had accepted responsibility for what he called "mistakes in the process of fund raising" and said that he had implemented a system for reviewing all donations of more than $10,000.
"We at the Democratic National Committee have made mistakes, and we have set out to correct them," Mr. Fowler said at a stormy news conference. "While we have made mistakes, they have been mistakes of process and not of intent. They are, nonetheless, serious, and we know this. We have taken and are continuing to take appropriate steps to correct them. Never has there been any desire, plan or intent to evade requirements of applicable laws and regulations."
Other associates of Mr. Huang have raised money for the Democrats. Arief Wiriandinata, an Indonesian who lived briefly in Virginia and whose father-in-law was a senior executive who worked for the Riadys, gave the party an additional $450,000. Mr. Fowler said that after reviewing that contribution, the committee had decided to keep the money because the donation was lawful.
Asked why Mr. Wiriandinata, who cannot vote because he is an Indonesian citizen, would want to give so much money to the Democrats, Mr. Fowler said that it was because "the President had expressed concern about one of his relatives who was ill."
The relative was Hasjim Ning, Mr. Wiriandinata's father-in-law. White House officials have said when Mr. Ning was ill, he was sent a 21-word note in June 1995 that bore the President's signature but was actually signed by a machine used to send letters from the White House. Mr. Ning died last year.
At a news conference last Friday, President Clinton pointedly suggested that any problems in fund raising were the fault of the Democratic National Committee, and other officials said the fund-raising issue may have ultimately cost the President enough votes to deprive him of a victory by a majority of those who voted. Today Mr. Fowler accepted blame, although he insisted he was not being made a skapegoat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LIPPO GROUP DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LIPPO GROUP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (75%); ETHICS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LITIGATION (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUANG, JOHN; RIADY FAMILY BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



292 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Construct A Mirror of Manhattan;
Coliseum Proposals Attempt To Reflect City's Direction

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
And now for Round 2 of the Battle of the New York Coliseum.
City and state officials must settle two questions. The first is old and nettlesome: What should a new building in one of the city's most famed public spaces look like? The second may be more of a surprise: What's an appropriate use? 
How about a multiplex movie house, a high-technology amusement park or a health spa? Perhaps a condominium hotel, the headquarters of a large media company or a studio for television production would make more sense.
Should it be a new home for the Museum of American Folk Art, the North American headquarters for the Sotheby's auction house or a beachhead for a department store chain that somehow survived as an icon of American business without setting foot in Manhattan?
"Our problem has been finding the right site, and we think this would be the sweet spot of the island for Sears," said Arthur C. Martinez, chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
His company's plan, for a Sears department store rising four floors over Columbus Circle that would be larger than its stores in all but handful of suburban malls, is contained in one of nine proposals submitted under a Nov. 1 deadline to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, owner of the Coliseum building.
Coming from some of the nation's largest real estate companies, the proposals have radically changed the nature of New York City's most contentious development debate. No longer an issue of the project's size, it has become one of character.
At stake is a site of unfulfilled grandeur at the southwest corner of Central Park that has attracted a series of ill-fated development schemes since William Randolph Hearst wanted to make it the center of New York City commerce in 1904. Hearst proposed a 40-story office building and a 555-foot-high clock tower, but the site has evolved since World War II into a congested traffic circle surrounded by some of the city's most abrasive architecture.
The assortment of new plans offers an opportunity for New Yorkers, both bureaucrats and ordinary residents, to think through the consequences of their architectural choices.
"It could prove a very good thing that market forces are forcing us all to address the issues of where we have come as a city," said Brendan Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society. "Now, if we could only step back and think intelligently about what we want one of the most important corners of Manhattan to become."
During the 1980's, when the current push for a new development began, it seemed all but assured that any new structure on the Coliseum site would be for corporate offices or high-priced apartments, and the only questions revolved around height, bulk and architecture. Now, the possibilities for the unused exhibition space erected in 1956 seem endless.
Will it resemble Madison Avenue or Herald Square? Will its place in the city economy be as a corporate center, tourist attraction, neighborhood shopping center or mecca for high-technology entertainment? And what criteria will be used to decide?
"If this is a problem, it's the kind I'd like more of," said Charles Millard, president the city's Economic Development Corporation and a senior adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is known to have veto power when the transportation agency makes its choice.
The array of proposals, Mr. Millard said, "are simply a reminder that New York's economic health does not come from just one place, and that the private sector often thinks more creatively than the government."
But outside planners and some neighborhood groups are less than sanguine about the latest batch of ideas.
Mr. Sexton said the risk was that officials of the transportation authority, which must forge a consensus among city and state officials, would give short shrift to the diversity of ideas, squandering the opportunity to piece together the best of them. What is needed, he said, is extensive public scrutiny and comment, even if that means pushing back the timetable of the development plan.
The transportation authority anticipates culling the nine proposals to a smaller group of finalists by February and making its selection in the spring. The agency seems unlikely to alter its timetable and seek extensive public comment, having already received approval to proceed with a project as long as it conforms to certain height and design requirements.
The agency is under pressure to move quickly as well because of losses sustained in both money and prestige during the failed development effort of the last decade.
That plan was abandoned in 1993 when Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the developer and publisher of The Daily News, walked away from his scaled-down plan for two office and condominium towers -- victims of the city's real estate recession. An earlier, far larger version of his plan had already been thrown out amid a torrent of lawsuits.
Now, although limits on the size of a Coliseum site development appear to have been resolved, the transportation authority must decide how to weigh various criteria, including how much the developers are willing to pay for the site, financial viability and economic impact. But the agency declined to say what would figure most heavily.
The transportation authority may encounter difficulty in forging agreement between city and state officials on the best development plan. The current round of proposals was delayed for months while advisers to Mayor Giuliani and Governor George E. Pataki were at a standoff over a city proposal, ultimately dropped, to dedicate a large part of any new development to exhibition space. City officials had argued that there was a shortage of space for Manhattan conventions.
"Things must have seemed much easier when they just wanted the best price for the site," said Bruce Ratner, a large developer in downtown Brooklyn and Times Square, who is heading the development team that has proposed the Sears store in a complex that would also include two apartment towers. "This time around, the process is better, but it is not going to be easier."
Like the other developers, Mr. Ratner declined to say how much he and his partners had offered for the Coliseum site.
Most of the developers have begun the competition trying to win the imagination of government authorities and the public. Some, stretching the imagination, have elicited the disdain of competitors.
"Big-box retailers belong in the suburbs, not on Columbus Circle," said Edward Minskoff, a Manhattan developer whose proposal resembles, as much as any other, the variety of uses contemplated for the site in the 1980's.
Working with the Lefrak Organization, another large New York City real estate concern, he would build two towers, one for a hotel and condominiums and the other for offices.
At the base of Mr. Minskoff's complex would be space for a new headquarters of Sotheby's, which is known to have been in discussions with several of the development teams that are bidding for the Coliseum site. The Minskoff complex would also include what he called "town house style retail space that would resemble Madison Avenue."
But others maintained that neither Madison Avenue nor New York City tradition was the right model.
"This should be the symbol of the next century for New York," said Stephen Ross, chairman of the Related Companies, who has proposed two towers that would include a television and movie studio, a hotel, a cineplex movie house and a restaurant enclosed in a huge globe across from the entrance to Central Park.
Mr. Ross said his combination of proposed uses closely reflected the broad shift in the city economy in the last five years in which the growth in entertainment and tourism has outpaced that of banking, insurance and other industries.
The most offbeat of the proposals was submitted by a group that includes David Plattner, a Manhattan executive with little experience in real estate development. He has nonetheless been joined by two development companies with broad United States holdings, Gerald Hines Interests and the Simon Property Group, in what he calls a "futuristic amazement place."
Mr. Plattner's idea is to renovate the entire Coliseum building and existing office tower above it for a shopping center, science museum and entertainment complex complete with a doomed rooftop swimming pool that would produce body surfing waves.
Whatever proposal is selected "is bound to make some people angry," said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban planning at New York University. "This is a site where a new public library would provoke protests because all its books were not politically correct."
But because of the wide variety of ideas from which the city and state must now choose, the new round in the Coliseum debate "reflects the ongoing magic of New York," he said.
"What these proposals reflect is the re-emergence of Manhattan as a place where people want to visit, shop, be entertained and have fun," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: OUTSIDE -- The Related Companies and Himmel & Company propose three towers over a new base. INSIDE -- A restaurant in a globe, condominiums, hotel, movies and a film and television studio; OUTSIDE -- The Trump Organization proposes a condominium hotel over the existing base. INSIDE -- Current exhibition space renovated for a new tenant, possibly Sotheby's; OUTSIDE -- Bruce Ratner and Daniel Brodsky propose two apartment towers over a new base. INSIDE -- An eight-story retail complex, anchored by a large Sears department store. (pg. B1); Columbus Circle looking north. The site at the southwest corner of Central Park has attracted a series of ill-fated development schemes since 1904. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Chart: "THE PROPOSALS: From Hotels, Condominiums, Offices and Stores to Museums, Cineplexes and Spas"
Following are the development teams that have submitted bids for the Coliseum site and the uses they have proposed. None of the teams disclosed how much money they had id, and one declined any comment on its plan:
 
The Trump Organization - Condominium hotel to be built over existing exhibition space. Current exhibition area would be renovated for a new tenant, possibly Sotheby's.
 
Edward J. Minskoff, the Lefrak Organization and DLJ Equity Partners - Two towers, one for a hotel and condominiums, the other for offices. A new base on Colmbus Circle for Sotheby's.
 
Bruce Ratner and Danie Brodsky - Eight-story retail complex, anchored by a large Sears department store, with two apartment towers.
 
Peter Kalikow - Sixty-story tower above the existing exhibition space, with 20 floors of apartments and 40 floors of offices that would be headquarters for a "large, well-know media company." The exhibition space would be renovated for retail use.
 
David Plattner, Gerald Hines and Simon Property Group - "Futuristic amazement place" in which the existing Coliseum and office tower would be renovated for a shopping mall, science museum, entertainment complex and rooftop arena with a pool with body surfing waves.
 
The Related Companies and Himmel & Company - Three hundred-room hotel, movie and television recording studio, condominiums, cineplex movie house and restaurant enclosed in a globe. Three towers would be built over a new base on Columbus Circle.
 
Tishman Speyer, the Mirage Corporation Morgan Stanley - Two towers for condominiums and offices, with the base renovated for Sotheby's and a new Museum of American Folk Art.
 
Millenium Partners - Thousand-room Westing hotel in a single tower over a base for a Sony entertainment center and Reebok health spa.
 
Silverstein Properties - declined comment. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: S (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (57%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (57%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; NEW YORK COLISEUM RETAILERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SURFING (79%); WATER SPORTS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); AUCTIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); SUBURBS (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



293 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Bishops Affirm Economic Principles That Raised a Storm in the 80's

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Ten years after the nation's Roman Catholic bishops issued a lengthy pastoral letter challenging Reagan-era enthusiasm for an unrestrained market economy, they have reasserted their moral convictions about economic life, but now boiled down to a few hundred words.
The National Conference of Catholic Bishops, which has been meeting here since Monday, approved a 10-point "Catholic Framework for Economic Life" today. The statement declares that economic life must be subject to moral principles and that people have a right to basic necessities like food, shelter, education, health care and a safe environment. 
 The 280 or so bishops here, who approved the brief statement in a voice vote without dissent, see it as a tool to reassert the themes of "Economic Justice for All," a document that stirred heated debate when its first draft was made public in November 1984 just after President Ronald Reagan's sweeping re-election victory.
Focusing on unemployment and poverty, and reaffirming a role for government in guiding the economy, that letter offered a temporary life raft for many liberals who felt swamped by the swelling tide of pro-market and anti-government sentiment. A group of prominent Catholic lay people, mostly Republicans and supported by the financier William Simon, tried to counter the pastoral letter with their own document.
The earlier letter appeared as a 200-page paperback after its final draft was approved in 1986. In contrast, the anniversary statement issued today is only 636 words long. The bishops' conference plans to distribute it, in English and Spanish, on posters and 3-by-8-inch cards starting in January.
The statement affirms, "All people have a right to economic initiative, to productive work, to just wages and benefits, to decent working conditions as well as to organize and join unions or other associations."
In keeping with Catholic tradition, the brief statement then outlines a corresponding set of duties: to work, to provide for one's family and to contribute to the broader society.
"Free markets have both clear advantages and limits," the statement says, adding that government and voluntary groups, too, have distinct and irreplaceable roles.
Without addressing more specifically the relationships among these sectors, the statement appears to be simply warning against an overemphasis on any one of them.
"A lot has changed in the decade since our pastoral," Bishop William S. Skylstad of Spokane, Wash., said in introducing the statement for discussion on Monday, but "we are still haunted by how the 'least among us' are faring."
"We live in an economy of paradoxes," said Bishop Skylstad, chairman of the bishops' Committee on Domestic Policy. "Profits, productivity and the stock market grow, while many workers' incomes and sense of security decline."
Today the Bishop anticipated criticism. "Some ask," he said, " 'Why can't you just stick to what they call religious issues?' We need to be very clear. Our defense of the poor, our pursuit of economic justice, is fundamentally a work of faith."
The earlier letter was criticized as beyond the competence of bishops, and the notion of a right to food, shelter, health care and other necessities remains controversial today. Still, the bishops, although they have grown more conservative and shy of controversy during the last decade, did not seem at all hesitant about reiterating the claim.
The bishops' meeting opened on an emotional note on Monday morning when Bishop Anthony M. Pilla of Cleveland, the conference's president, read a letter from the absent Joseph Cardinal Bernardin of Chicago, who is dying of cancer, asking for the bishops' prayers.
The entire assembly appeared frozen, the bishops soundless and motionless, while Bishop Pilla read the letter and his own response. For 30 years Cardinal Bernardin has led the bishops "through the most difficult of moments," Bishop Pilla said. "I know of no other bishop who has given so much for so long so willingly and lovingly."
Then, with many bishops dabbing at their eyes, the assembly broke into a prolonged standing ovation.
Much of the bishops' meeting has been devoted to internal church matters like the adaptation of funeral ceremonies in instances of cremation -- a practice that the church now permits while continuing to discourage -- and a new plan for improving ministry to young adults.
But the unfolding tragedy of dying refugees in central Africa imposed itself on the gathering when Auxiliary Bishop John Ricard of Baltimore, chairman of Catholic Relief Services, the American church's agency for overseas aid, gave its annual report.
"Tens of thousands are dying," Bishop Ricard said, urging the bishops to back their leaders' demands for American and international initiatives to allow the movement of refugees and relief workers in Zaire.
The bishops stood in support of that request, and of his further plea for the conference to continue pressing the Clinton Administration to increase foreign aid rather than cut it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



294 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Yield Lowest In 8 Months On Long Bond

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell yesterday to its lowest level in eight months as sentiment grew that the Federal Reserve would not raise short-term interest rates at today's Federal Open Market Committee meeting and perhaps not in the coming months.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 26/32, to 100 26/32 for a yield of 6.44 percent, down from 6.50 percent on Friday. The yield was the lowest since it fell to 6.38 percent on March 5. The bond market was shut Monday for the Veterans Day holiday. 
 A mixed report on auto sales led to some modest profit taking early in the session, but bargain hunters seeking cheaper securities turned the momentum and limited the fall.
The market is awaiting this morning's release of the Producer Price Index for October and the results of the Federal Reserve meeting in the afternoon.
The market was helped by a stronger dollar and by overseas investors. Dave Shabelman, a market analyst with MMS International, San Francisco, said President Clinton's meeting with Congressional leaders yesterday afternoon in which they discussed a balanced budget gained the attention of the market.
Carl Palash, chief economist at MCM Moneywatch, a New York market research and analysis firm, said he hoped that the Government would cut the budget deficit to make government securities more attractive to foreign investors.
Mr. Palash said some positive comments by German officials talking up the dollar added to the positive tone of the market.
"All in all," Mr. Palash said, "the market is calm ahead of the F.O.M.C. meeting and inflation data tomorrow, with most everyone expecting the central bank to keep monetary policy steady and with most expecting the inflation number to be benign."
The consensus is for the Producer Price Index to rise three-tenths of a percent, but with core rate at a more modest one-tenth of a percent gain. "My own estimate," Mr. Palash said, "is lower, unchanged over all, with the core down one-tenth of 1 percent. There is some sentiment out there that the next Fed move will be an easing. I am not inclined to go along with that because some wage pressures, from the tight labor market, are already noticeable. Also I believe the economy's pace will pick up by itself early next year."
Yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills was not as strong as some had expected, but still acceptable.
The average discount rate at auction for the three-month bill was 5.02 percent, down from 5.04 percent last week, with the bid-to-cover ratio of bids compared with the total amount being auctioned this week at 3.33 to 1. Traders had expected the ratio to be 4.3 to 1. For the longer-maturity six-month bill, the average rate at auction was 5.07 percent, down from 5.08 percent a week ago. The bid-to-cover ratio was better at 3.83 to 1, compared with the expected ratio of 4 to 1.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.731	97.437	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.07%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.28%	High Price	98.739	97.442	Discounted Rate	4.99%	5.06%	Coupon Yield	5.12%	5.26%	Low Price	98.731	97.437	Discounted Rate	5.02%	5.07%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.28%	Accepted at low price	81%	43%	Total applied for	$46,641,078	$53,873,865	Accepted	$14,015,185	$14,079,059	Noncompetitive	$1,488,592	$1,187,054	

Both issues are dated Nov. 14. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 13 and the six-month bills on May 15.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (74%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



295 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Dow Struggles to Reach Yet Another High

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrials struggled to a record high for the fifth consecutive session yesterday, even as investors booked profits in some highflying sectors like technology and sent many broad indexes lower.
The Dow closed up 10.44 points, to 6,266.04, topping its previous high every trading day since last Wednesday. The Dow slipped 16 points in early trading, recovered to show a gain of more than 20 points, then slipped back a second time before rallying into the close. 
 The Dow average is up 256 points, or more than 4 percent, in the four weeks since closing above 6,000 for the first time on Oct. 14.
"It's had a huge run," said Peter Anderson, chief investment officer at IDS Advisory Group in Minneapolis. Investors are "simply cautious given what's happened in the last several sessions," he said.
Big Board volume was robust at 472.9 million shares, up from Monday's quiet Veterans Day pace of 354 million.
But advancing issues led decliners by a weak 13-to-11 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, and, more concerning to some, the broad market showed signs of fatigue.
"The Dow is outperforming the Standard & Poor's," said John Church, chief investment officer at Glenmede Trust Company in Philadelphia. "Typically that happens at the end of a bull market, so there are some signs of concern."
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.31 points, to 729.56; the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.65 point, to 386.18, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 6.14 points, to 1,256.53. All three set records on Monday.
Stocks trimmed their midday gains even as bonds built on theirs. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 26/32, pushing its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, to an eight-month low of 6.44 percent.
Semiconductor stocks rose in the morning after the leading industry group said orders for computer chips jumped nearly 18 percent in October, lifting the book-to-bill ratio to 1.10 from a revised 0.98 in September. The preliminary figure means manufacturers got $110 in new orders for every $100 worth of semiconductors they shipped. The ratio has been below 1.0 -- the dividing point between market growth and contraction -- since January.
But computer chip stocks finished mixed after a bout of afternoon profit taking, and amid talk that demand for personal computers was waning. On the Big Board, Motorola shares rose 2, to 52, but Texas Instruments fell 7/8, to 55 1/8, and LSI Logic slipped 7/8, to 31 1/4. I.B.M. fell 1 1/4, to 133 1/4.
Investors also took profits ahead of a raft of economic data due out later this week, including a report today on producer prices. Later in the week, the Government will report on consumer prices, retail sales and industrial production.
Westinghouse Electric shares gained 5/8, to 20 5/8, on expectations that the company would soon spin off its industrial operations, with revenue of $5 billion a year, creating a company distinct from its fast-growing broadcast empire.
AT&T advanced 1 1/4, to 38 3/8, after the Supreme Court refused to set aside a Federal appeals court order that temporarily put on hold new rules intended to increase competition in telephone markets.
Anchor Gaming tumbled 8 7/8, to 30 1/8. The company announced that it was reconsidering plans to expand a Colorado casino, raising questions about Anchor's growth strategy.
 
ON THE WEB
 
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web:
 
www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); LSI (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (67%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (67%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GLENMEDE TRUST CO (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); LSI CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BONDS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MARKET SIZE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



296 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Spur Beijing on Trade Group Entry

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration plans to tell Chinese leaders, in high-level meetings starting in 10 days, that it is ready to speed up talks on China's entry into the World Trade Organization, although it will not drop demands for a series of market openings that China has so far resisted, Administration officials said today.
President Clinton plans to raise China's entry into the trade organization -- which has become an increasingly contentious issue between the two countries -- when he meets the Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, in the Philippines two weeks from now. Secretary of State Warren Christopher will pave the way with a visit to Beijing next week, only the second in his four-year tenure. 
 "We are looking for ways to get the relationship unstuck and this may be a very concrete sign that we can work together," a senior official said earlier this week. But he noted that China had yet to indicate whether it was ready to agree to a a broad set of market openings for foreign companies that President Clinton will insist upon. "We won't sign a bad deal, and so far we're not sure that the Chinese are ready to move," the official said.
Just how much flexibility to show in negotiating with China appears to once again be a subject of division within the Administration.
Many State Department officials view China's entry into the World Trade Organization as a diplomatically useful symbol and a concrete example of how the two powers can work together on economic disputes, despite continuing differences over arms proliferation and human rights. The trade organization is the arbiter of global rules, and membership insures reduced tariffs for products traded around the world and provides that disputes are handled by panels of international judges.
The State Department officials hope to reach an agreement next year, when Mr. Clinton and Mr. Jiang are expected to make state visits to each other's capital.
However, the United States trade representative's office tends to take a far more hawkish view, insisting that China take radical steps to open its economy on what it calls "commercially acceptable terms," and that its concessions must be "commercially meaningful."
"It's fair to say that the tone of the discussions has improved," said Charlene Barshefsky, the acting United States trade representative, and one of several Cabinet members who attended a meeting at the White House late last week to set the agenda for Mr. Christopher's trip and the subsequent meeting between President Clinton and President Jiang. "But the key to accession for China will be the substantive obligations they are willing to undertake."
One of the big mysteries Administration officials hope to resolve in the coming meetings is whether Mr. Jiang has the willingness and the mandate to strike a deal that could result in a far-reaching opening of China's market.
"It's hard to predict," said C. Fred Bergsten, head of the Institute for International Economics, who has been pressing for China's inclusion. "Some Chinese leaders may conclude that they have plenty of investment pouring into the country already, and the pain of opening up state-run industries to competition is simply too much."
For Mr. Clinton, it may also be a politically delicate maneuver. Two weeks ago, China sentenced a prominent dissident, Wang Dan, to a lengthy prison term. Even for an American Administration that has formally separated trade benefits and human rights, an official acknowledged recently, "it's painful to reward that kind of behavior with talk of letting China into the ultimate club of trading nations."
Moreover, there could be trouble in Congress. Already there are rumblings from some Democrats and Republicans that any United States decision to agree to Chinese entry should be subject to Congressional approval. Currently, the Administration is free to make such decisions without the involvement of Congress.
Lurking over the whole business is China's growing trade surplus with the United States. The surplus is expected to exceed $35 billion this year, and in some ways it is more worrisome than the larger, but declining, deficit with Japan. Experts believe that a large part of the imbalance with China is a result of its huge barriers to foreign products and some types of foreign investment; in Japan's case, trade barriers are viewed as only one of several causes of the deficit.
The European Union's top economic official, Sir Leon Brittan, is visiting China this week. Over the weekend he said the Europeans favored China's membership in the trade organization, though he did not say under what conditions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



297 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: CSX Puts Off Making a Higher Offer to Acquire Conrail

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Despite intense pressure to match a $10 billion all-cash bid from the rival Norfolk Southern Corporation, the CSX Corporation has decided for now not to raise its offer for Conrail.
CSX concluded that it made no sense to fuel the bidding war with Norfolk Southern by sweetening the stock portion of its offer before it could reinforce its position by acquiring 19.9 percent of Conrail's shares later this month, according to two people familiar with the negotiations between Conrail and CSX. 
 Directors from both Conrail and CSX, who had announced a merger agreement on Oct. 15, had been meeting Monday night and again on Tuesday to work out a response to Norfolk Southern's bid of $110 a share. CSX's latest offer is for cash and stock valued at $93.69 a share, based on yesterday's closing stock price.
Conrail, which is based in Philadelphia, urged its partner to increase its bid and CSX submitted a new, tentative offer to the Conrail board, the two people familiar with the negotiations said. But the two sides were unable to agree on economic issues, as well as the timing of the new offer and related governance issues. CSX decided it did not have to respond so quickly.
"We're still trying to come up with something that both sides can support enthusiastically," one person close to the negotiations said.
After rising to almost $98 on expectations that CSX would raise its offer, Conrail closed at $96.875 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, up 34.375 cents.
Conrail is expected to reaffirm its commitment to its strategic merger with CSX today and to recommend that Conrail shareholders reject the latest, more lucrative offer from Norfolk Southern.
Both Conrail and CSX declined to comment last night.
CSX had cloaked its merger agreement with Conrail in protective armor: a $300 million break-up fee and more than $100 million in stock options granted to CSX by Conrail. More important, Conrail operates under anti-takeover statutes in Pennsylvania that permit companies to ignore richer, hostile offers.
Many Conrail shareholders, however, have found Norfolk Southern's offer enticing, a sentiment many have conveyed to Conrail's directors.
For its part, Norfolk Southern called on Wall Street and Conrail shareholders to support its offer for Conrail.
"Let them know that you are troubled that the CSX-Conrail plan could be pushed through, depriving Conrail shareholders of the best offer," David R. Goodes, Norfolk Southern's chairman, told investors and analysts yesterday at a conference sponsored by Salomon Brothers.
Norfolk Southern is scheduled to go into Federal District Court in Philadelphia on Monday to seek a preliminary injunction blocking the Conrail-CSX merger.
But at least for now, CSX is proceeding with its plans. Under its merger agreement, CSX is offering $110 a share for 40 percent of Conrail's outstanding shares. CSX currently is attempting to acquire 19.9 percent of Conrail's stock by Nov. 20, the date its tender offer expires. If it is successful, CSX could then vote at a December meeting of Conrail shareholders in favor of an exemption allowing the railroad to acquire the remaining shares. But CSX is offering to swap its stock for the final 60 percent of Conrail shares in a deal that currently values the shares at only $82.83 a share.
In recent days, according to people familiar with the negotiations, CSX resisted Conrail's advice to increase the back end of the offer immediately, wanting to wait until it acquired 19.9 percent of Conrail, rather than give Norfolk Southern another opportunity to raise its bid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (94%); NSC (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (94%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (94%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (94%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (94%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (94%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: CONRAIL (CONSOLIDATED RAIL CORP); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP; CSX CORP CSX CORP (94%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONRAIL (CONSOLIDATED RAIL CORP); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP; CSX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; RAILROADS MERGERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INJUNCTIONS (60%); SPONSORSHIP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



298 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Rome Talks To Examine Aid to Hungry

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 12

 BODY:
At a moment when relief agencies are scrambling to get food to an estimated 1 million people trapped in refugee camps in eastern Zaire, the World Food Summit -- which opens here on Wednesday -- does not have to search far for an example of how hunger still plagues a planet that is producing more food than ever.
At a news conference this morning, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said United Nations agencies have the food aid they need to feed the Rwandan refugees in Zaire who have been stranded by recent fighting. The problem, he said, is in getting them to the hungry. 
 In many ways, Africa's latest food emergency is a snapshot of the challenge raised by this week's summit meeting at the headquarters of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization here in Rome.
"The problem is not production," said Dr. Kay Killingsworth, secretary general of the summit meeting, in a recent interview. "Agricultural production has basically kept pace with population growth over the last 50 years, and at the moment there is enough food to go around. It's just inequitably distributed -- with the result that food does not reach the needy."
The five-day meeting is expected to attract 100 heads of state and several thousand other participants, but several major industrial countries including the United States will be represented only by low-level delegations.
Participants are expected to adopt a declaration pledging to reduce by half the number of people in the world suffering from chronic hunger -- estimated at 840 million -- by the year 2015. But the document, criticized by many groups as vague, lacking in ambition and silent on many important food issues, carries no legal weight and makes no financial commitments.
Still, organizers hope that the event itself will push into the international limelight the need to insure an adequate food supply for a growing world population, and to keep up pressure on rich and poor countries alike to match the successes of the past without repeating the mistakes.
The last international conference on world hunger, in 1974, took place in a more charged atmosphere as experts warned of a pending global food shortage. As it turned out, the world food supply increased -- largely as a result of the so-called "green revolution," which helped a number of countries become self-sufficient.
Those successes have reduced the proportion of chronically hungry people in the world to the current 840 million, or 13.7 percent of the world's population, from the early 1970's figure of 920 million, or 24.4 percent. But a pledge made at the 1974 conference that in 10 years no child would go to bed hungry has become a mockery: according to statistics released by the World Food Program, 11,000 children die every day -- one every eight seconds -- from malnutrition.
According to the meeting's organizers, the challenge in coming years will be to continue to increase food production while avoiding some of the social, economic and environmental disruptions caused by the green revolution. But the most critical issue, they say, will be to keep pace with a population that by the year 2030 is expected to increase by 3 billion people. According to the United Nations agency's estimates, food production will have to increase 75 percent if those people are to be fed adequately.
In the face of persistent food emergencies, some man-made like the one now unfolding in Zaire, food experts note with concern a drop in global food reserves, which recently fell below minimum levels as a result of high prices and poor harvests in some parts of the world.
Food aid levels from donor countries have also declined in recent years. And as food aid levels drop, an increasing proportion, about 30 percent today compared with about 10 percent in the 1970's, is going toward emergency relief situations like the one in Zaire.
The map of world hunger is also changing. Today half , or 420 million, of the world's hungry live in Asia, although experts expect that number to decrease. In contrast, sub-Saharan Africa remains one of the few regions where the percentage of people suffering from hunger, now 40 percent of the population, has not declined in recent years.
Compared with the 1974 conference, this meeting has more modest goals, a consequence of what many see as a worldwide lowering of expectations of what governments, and international organizations, can do.
"We are in a very different world," said Dr. Killingsworth, noting that this conference will be looking for greater involvement by the private sector and by civic organizations. "We have come to understand that agriculture does not have all the solutions, that governments cannot solve problems by themselves." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ROME, ITALY (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; SHORTAGES; DIET AND NUTRITION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (87%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (76%); AGRICULTURE (73%); NUTRITION (72%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



299 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Two Airliners Collide in Midair, Killing All 351 Aboard in India

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Wednesday, Nov. 13

 BODY:
All 351 passengers and crew appeared to have been killed on Tuesday night when a Saudi Arabian jumbo jet collided shortly after takeoff with a Kazak Airlines plane approaching the New Delhi airport, Indian aviation officials said. The death toll made it the third-deadliest air crash and the worst mid-air collision in aviation history.
Rescue teams searching by the light of burning wreckage reported at first that there were no survivors from the Saudi Arabian Airlines Boeing 747 and the Kazak Airlines Ilyushin 76, which collided at 6:40 P.M. Tuesday New Delhi time (8:10 A.M. Eastern time), as night was falling in the area. 
 Officials at the scene said at midnight Tuesday local time that villagers had reported "three or four" people alive in the wreckage immediately after the impact, and that all but one of them had died before rescue teams arrived. According to these unconfirmed accounts, the lone survivor was taken to a local hospital. But a later survey of local hospitals turned up no survivors.
The Press Trust of India, citing a passenger list, said those killed aboard the Saudi aircraft were mostly Indians, and also included 17 foreigners, including two Americans. Other foreigners aboard were said to have included nine Nepalese, three Pakistanis, and one each from Bangladesh, Britain and Saudi Arabia.
Kazak officials told Reuters that the Ilyushin, arriving from the southern Kazak city of Chimkent, had been chartered by a company in neighboring Kyrgyzstan and that most of the passengers aboard were Kyrgyz.
The pilot of a United States Air Force C-141 transport plane who was bringing in supplies for the American Embassy in New Delhi said he had seen the immediate aftermath of the collision.
"We noticed out of our right hand a large cloud lit up with an orange glow from within the clouds," the pilot, who declined to give his name, said in a telephone news conference with reporters at the Pentagon. The glow increased in intensity, he said, and then he saw "two fireballs" emerge from the cloud and explode into a field of fire when they hit the ground about a minute later.
By midnight Tuesday, the police said they had recovered 275 bodies from a wreckage path that was spread over an area six miles wide near the village of Charkhi Dadri, in a thickly populated farming district west of New Delhi in the state of Haryana. But there were no reports of any casualties on the ground.
There was widespread speculation about a possible failure in air traffic control procedures at Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, of a misunderstanding of controllers' instructions or a misreading of an altimeter by one of the pilots.
But at a news conference about three hours after the crash, H. S. Khola, the Indian director of civil aviation, said: "We are ourselves not in full possession of the facts. Nobody knows exactly what happened as of now. We will get to the bottom of this and find out who was responsible."
Mr. Khola said the collision occurred when the Saudi plane, bound for the Saudi cities of Dhahran and Jidda, was climbing after takeoff with 312 passengers and crew. About seven minutes after takeoff, he said, the Saudi aircraft collided with the Kazakstan Airlines plane, an aircraft configured for cargo that had flown from Chimkent with 39 passengers and crew. Another Indian official said that air traffic controllers noticed "two blips merging on the radar screen but not separating" before both blips disappeared.
Mr. Khola said the Saudi aircraft, carrying large numbers of Indians traveling to jobs in Saudi Arabia and Indian Muslims making pilgrimages to Mecca, had taken off at 6:33 P.M.
"It was asked to climb to 14,000 feet, as per air traffic control information, and the Kazak aircraft was asked to descend to 15,000 feet," Mr. Khola said. "At about 6:40 P.M., radar blips of both aircraft were lost."
Although there are more than four million takeoffs of civilian aircraft around the world every day, midair collisions are extremely rare, and until Tuesday there was no midair collision on the list of the world's 10 worst air accidents.
Aviation experts said improvements in air traffic control had vastly cut the risk of midair collision since the worst incident of its kind in the United States, the collision on Dec. 16, 1960 of a Trans World Airlines Super Constellation and a United Airlines DC-8 in fog over New York harbor. That crash, which sent one of the aircraft plunging into the Park Slope section of Brooklyn, killed 134 people.
Indian and international aviation officials said one factor that might have contributed to the crash was that all takeoffs and landings to the airport occur along a single flight corridor. For years, Indian pilots and air traffic controllers have said that the absence of other routes into the airport creates hazards, with incoming and outgoing aircraft sometimes flying in opposite directions on the same path with an airspace separation of as little as 1,000 feet.
Mr. Khola said the 1,000-foot separations met international flight safety standards. But the Indian Air Traffic Controllers' Guild issued a statement saying the collision "could have been averted if only there were separate arrival and departure routes at Delhi airport."
The statement said that the controllers had been "making requests for a very long time" for separate corridors, but that the Indian Air Force, which uses one side of the airport for a military airfield, had resisted the proposal. "The air force headquarters is not willing to open up more sky for civil aviation," the guild's statement said.
The controllers' statement said that the Saudi and Kazak planes had been "under radar control" at the time of the accident and had been advised of each others' respective positions. But international aviation experts said that outdated radar equipment is still in use at the New Delhi airport while new equipment is being installed, and that it is possible that as a result controllers would not have had a continuous readout on their screens of the altitude, direction and velocity of each aircraft.
"The problem with Delhi is that the radar is antiquated," said Eric Moody, a retired pilot who was a Boeing 747 captain with British Airways.
Mr. Moody and other aviation experts who were interviewed on the British Broadcasting Corporation's satellite television network cited two other factors that might have contributed to the collision. One was the possibility that the Soviet-built Ilyushin 76 had an altimeter demarcated in meters, not feet. Mr. Moody said that pilots of those aircraft flying into airports outside the old Soviet bloc often had to convert the altitudes given to them in feet by air traffic controllers into meters by reading from a conversion chart, and that a mistake could have resulted.
He said another possibility was that there had been a language mix-up between the Indian controller and one or both of the airliner pilots, who would have been communicating in English. Pilots with international airlines flying into Indian airports say that it is often difficult to understand the instructions radioed to them by controllers.
The collision jolted the Indian Government, which ordered a judicial inquiry. The crash came at a time when Prime Minister H. D. Deve Gowda's five-month-old coalition Government is coming under criticism for its failure to act decisively to regain momentum in India's faltering program of economic reform, which has not attracted the flows of foreign investment and technology it had hoped for, partly because of India's slowness in upgrading its outdated roads, ports and airports.
Indian aviation officials countered criticism by noting that some steps have been taken in recent years to improve what was, in the 1970's and 1980's, one of the world's worst air safety records. A new law four years ago allowed the creation of private airlines to compete with the monopolies held by state-owned Air India and Indian Airlines, and the dozen private carriers that have sprung up have spurred vastly improved service. Large sums have been spent on upgrading major airports, including New Delhi, although much of the work remains incomplete.
But the system remains accident-prone. In May 1994, a Boeing 737 operated by Sahara Airways, a private carrier, skidded off the runway during pilot training and crashed into an Aeroflot airliner parked at the international terminal at New Delhi, killing 22 people.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers and policemen in India searched for bodies early today in the wreckage of two airliners that collided in midair near New Delhi last night. All 351 people aboard the two planes, a Saudi Arabian Boeing 747 and a Kazak Ilyushin 76, were killed in the third-worst disaster in aviation history. (Reuters) (pg. A6)
 
Map/Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Collision in the Clouds" At least 351 people were killed yesterday when a Saudi Arabian junbo jet taking off from New Delhi collided with an incoming Kazak airliner. (Source: Jane's All the World's Aircraft) (pg. A6)
 
Chronology: "KEEPING TRACK: Air Disasters: The 10 Worst Death Tolls"
 
583: March 27, 1977 -- Two Boeing 747 airliners, a KLM Royal Dutch Airlines plane and a Pan American Airways jet, collide on the runway at Tenerife in the Canary Islands; 61 survive.

520: Aug. 12, 1985 -- A Japan Air Lines 747 crashes into Mount Osutaka; 4 survive.
 
351: Nov. 12, 1996 -- A Saudi Airlines 747 and a Kazakstan Airlines Ilyushin-76 collide in midair near New Delhi.
 
350: Jan. 8, 1996 -- An Antonov-32 cargo plane crashes into a crowded market in Kinshasa, Zaire.
 
346 March 3, 1974 -- A Turkish Airlines McDonnell Douglas DC-10 crashes shortly after takeoff from Paris's Orly Airport.
 
329: June 23, 1985 -- An Air-India 747 plunges into the sea off the Irish coast, apparently following an explosion.
 
301: Aug. 19, 1980 -- A Saudi Arabian Airlines Lockheed L-1011 catches fire at Riyadh.
 
290: July 3, 1988 -- An Iran Air Airbus A-300 is shot down over the Persian Gulf by the United States warship Vincennes, which wrongly identified the airliner as an attacking fighter.
 
273: May 25, 1979 -- An American Airlines McDonnell Douglas DC-10 crashes after takeoff from Chicago.
 
270: Dec. 21, 1988 -- A Pan Am 747 is blown up by a bomb over the town of Lockerbie, Scotland. (Source: Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); SCOTLAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); IRELAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); SPAIN (71%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HARYANA, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (70%); 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; KAZAKH AIRLINES BOEING CO (58%); SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES (57%); PRESS TRUST OF INDIA LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; KAZAKH AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI (INDIA); INDIA (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); SCOTLAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); IRELAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); SPAIN (71%); GULF STATES (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HARYANA, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (89%); DEATHS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); HOSPITALS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



300 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Should Pitch 'Values' to Real Families

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In her critique of Bob Dole's campaign as insufficiently Reaganite, Lisa Schiffren (Op-Ed, Nov. 9) says it is "shameful" that the Republican nominee didn't explain that a tax cut strengthens family values because it would allow "a mother to forgo working and to rear her own children."
This was not an effective selling point for Mr. Dole not because he didn't say it (he did, several times) but because it bears no relation to the real lives of working families. 
 My wife and I both work, and we have one child. We had a taxable income of about $54,000 last year, which means we owed some $10,000 in Federal taxes. The 15 percent Dole tax cut would have reduced our tax liability by about $1,500.
With that money, we might be able to put a down payment on a new car. Or buy a new home computer. But it's not enough to allow either one of us to drop out of the work force, which would cut our family income in half.
Reduced child care expenses wouldn't make up for the loss in our standard of living, nor would a 15 percent tax cut (the value of which would fall along with our income).
Ms. Schiffren, like Mr. Dole and others who contend that Uncle Sam is strangling family life, puts the tax-collecting cart before the income-generating horse. Soccer moms and dads feel economic pressure these days not because the Government is taking too much out of their paychecks, but because employers aren't putting enough in.
A real "family values" economic policy would address the gap between employee compensation, which has been stagnant for years, and employee productivity, which is growing nicely enough to feed an unprecedented boom in corporate profits. That boom has produced record results on Wall Street, but a lot more wealth will have to trickle down to the rest of us before we can afford to work less and spend more time with our families.
 
ROGER KERSON
Evanston, Ill., Nov. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 FAMILY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); CHILD CARE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHIFFREN, LISA; DOLE, BOB; KERSON, ROGER BOB DOLE (94%); LISA SCHIFFREN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



301 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aid to Russia Can't Rein In Mobsters

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Stephen Handelman's Nov. 9 Op-Ed article contains a simplistic interpretation of the roots of Russia's mafia, and his remedies to combat the corruption miss the mark.
While Russians were indeed trained to see private entrepreneurs as "enemies," forcing business people to seek protection from racketeers instead of the police, the Kremlin had already realized that its command economy could not deliver consumer goods. So, crackdowns occurred only when large-scale larceny, like trainloads of goods disappearing, took place. A party functionary, but not a member of the inner circle, was often the fall guy. This modus operandi persists, except that the Potemkin village is a different color. 
 Given that the former Communists are the new capitalists, it is delusory to think, as Mr. Handelman does, that United States aid to Russian law enforcement can rein in the mafia.
The power structure, with its interests to protect, is linked with the corruption. It is through this structure that tens of billions of dollars reaped by the nouveau riche flow into foreign banks, rather than being invested in commercial development. As long as this continues, foreign entrepreneurs will have to take risks beyond those taken on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
ILVI J. CANNON
Bolton, Conn., Nov. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: CANNON, ILVI J; HANDELMAN, STEPHEN STEPHEN HANDELMAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996



302 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
From Drought to Dissent in the Western Plains

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

BAD LAND
An American Romance
By Jonathan Raban
Maps. 324 pages. Pantheon Books. $25. 
 In the present-day West he explores so engagingly in his new book, "Bad Land: An American Romance," Jonathan Raban meets many people hostile to the Federal Government. These dissenters are not only extremists like the members of the Militia of Montana who refuse even to look at him as he eats breakfast in the Landmark Cafe, "evidently the regimental mess," in Noxon, Mont.
They are also mild-mannered ranchers disdainful of Washington bureaucrats who, they say, think of the West as an empty space in which to practice their naive environmental experiments.
 Mr. Raban seems in general to disapprove of such outlooks, remarking at one point that "ranchers and farmers, with their wheat subsidies and grazing rights, had more tax- dollars in their pockets than any other single group of Americans, not excluding, say, single teen-age black mothers on welfare."
Yet, he writes, if one were looking for evidence to support the idea that the Federal Government was capable of dishonesty, one had only to remember the Enlarged Homestead Act, passed by Congress in 1909, which guaranteed 320 free acres in the Plains of Montana and the Dakotas to anyone willing to farm them.
Through the promotional efforts of railroad and mining interests, Americans and Europeans were persuaded that it was possible to farm what Mr. Raban refers to as "the Great American Desert," an expanse of land "which looked suspiciously like the surface of the moon." In one of his blunter passages, Mr. Raban calls the dryland homestead scheme "this cruel hoax, this shoddy, obvious piece of scam artistry."
To make his history palpable to the reader, Mr. Raban steps into the Montana moonscape, creates a feeling of its intimidating immensity and then walks through a ruined homestead, picking up and examining its abandoned contents. One item is the famous pamphlet that inspired so many settlers, "Campbell's Soil Culture Manual," in which Hardy W. Campbell, an evangelical farming expert, described what he saw as a revolutionary new system for farming semi-arid land.
As Mr. Raban sums up the system: "You'd need to buy a Campbell Sub-Surface Packer to compact the soil at the root-level of your crops. You'd also need a disk harrow to break up the topmost layer into a fine, loose mulch. The pulverized surface soil would collect the rain; the packed soil would store the moisture for future use."
If there was rain.
There was, at least for the first three summers after the settlers arrived, 1911, 1912 and 1913. Mr. Raban recreates the spirit of the time by introducing actual families and showing how their hopes soared, their bankers rejoiced, interest rates sank, credit expanded and debt mounted. And then, as Mr. Raban writes: "The weather broke. It had not been cured, as the optimists claimed. It had only been in remission."
Here Mr. Raban outdoes himself. To feel the cold of the Montana winters, he walks nine-tenths of a mile at night in minus-35-degree weather. "I had never felt my bones as bones before -- the dry clacking of the joints of the skeleton. My kneecaps, thin and brittle as sand-dollars, came to my attention first, followed by my wrists, knuckles, shoulder blades and ankles. I rattled as I walked, my trouser-legs flapping round bare white shinbones."
To sense the terror of the Great Plains lightning, he gets caught driving in a thunderstorm. Mere eloquence serves him to experience secondhand the hailstones, the tornadoes and the clouds of grasshoppers blotting out the sun.
Most ruinously, drought hit in 1917. Wheat production fell, and along with it wheat prices. One of Mr. Raban's witnesses recalls his father's telling him that "his haunting memory of this time was the sight of his mother, on her knees every day, crying and praying for rain."
The war in Europe and the drought in Montana "collapsed into a single catastrophe." Some homesteaders gave up, abandoned their farms and moved farther west. Others stayed, only to be hit by the Depression and the Dust Bowl of the "Dirty Thirties." Today a few farms remain in the Montana Plains along with a residue of cynicism extending all the way west to Seattle, the self-named Emerald City where the most intrepid of the settlers ended up.
What is the point of this vivid reconstruction of the past, besides making readers feel firsthand the awful futility of fighting nature at its most malevolent? In the last third of "Bad Land," Mr. Raban travels back and forth between eastern Montana and his home in Seattle, trying to see what became of the homesteaders and their descendants and trying to understand the legacy of their experience.
His conclusions are complex, reflecting the contradictory nature of a community made up of individualistic people who wanted to succeed on their own terms. The failure of the homesteaders was reflected for him in a pathetic effort by Ismay, a Montana town in the heart of the Plains, to rename itself Joe and thereby share the glory of the pro football hero of the same name.
This gimmick proved not to be even as profitable as the hoopla surrounding the arrest of Theodore Kaczynski, accused of being the Unabomber, nine months later at Lincoln, at the western end of the state. More promotional T-shirts were sold in Lincoln than in Joe. In Mr. Raban's West, violent apartness sells better than heroic team play.
The puzzle that remains is why the author, an English expatriate now settled in Seattle, was attracted to the homesteaders' story. He writes at the outset of "Bad Land" that "lacking an American past of my own, I hoped to find someone else's castoff history that would fit my case," and that in the Plains of Montana he had found "the point of connection" he had been searching for. "I was certain of it."
But this doesn't really explain the restless curiosity that has enabled him to enliven remote experiences in books like "Arabia," "Old Glory" and "Hunting Mr. Heartbreak: A Discovery of America." One can only trust that his search for connections will continue and yield more books as entertaining and instructive as this one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Raban (Jean Lenihan/Pantheon Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BAD LAND: AN AMERICAN ROMANCE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DROUGHT (88%); LITERATURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); DESERTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; RABAN, JONATHAN JONATHAN RABAN MAPS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



303 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Is Evolving Into a Plural Political System

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A review of today's Mexican reality reveals a far different picture from the alarmist one you paint in "Foreign Danger Zones" (editorial, Nov. 10). To talk of a country that has "stunted its politics" is to ignore that our society is building a plural political system. The Mexican congress is ruled by four political parties, and many states, towns and cities are governed by different political parties. 
 Mexico is a country in which ambitious political reform was recently approved by consensus after healthy debate on financing of political parties and equal access to the news media. The same day your editorial appeared, peaceful, contested state elections were held in various parts of the country.
Mexico is not, as you state, a "crisis waiting to happen." All economic indicators are showing dramatic improvement. Mexico's handling of the post-devaluation crisis has shown our desire to base progress on firm ground, in a sustainable way.
It is naive to imagine that political and economic change will depend on America's will. Our reforms will continue to be promoted internally by our own people and for our own interest. Fortunately for both the United States and Mexico, our relations are too complex for your call for pressure to have any resonance. Such tactics can only backfire.
 
JORGE PINTO
Consul General of Mexico
New York, Nov. 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); TRENDS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); APPROVALS (55%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (53%); 

PERSON: PINTO, JORGE (CONSUL GEN)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



304 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Remarks by Treasury Official Suggest Strong Dollar Policy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rallied against the Japanese yen and steadied against the German mark yesterday after a Treasury official reaffirmed the commitment of the United States to a strong currency for the first time since the elections.
But the dollar ended mixed against other currencies and briefly touched a four-year low against the British pound, which surged on data pointing to a stronger British economy and the likelihood of higher interest rates. Rising British rates would increase returns on investments in pound-denominated assets. 
 In trading in New York late yesterday, the dollar rose to 111.79 yen from 111.34 on Tuesday. The dollar was unchanged at 1.5075 marks.
Traders said there was little reaction when the Federal Reserve, as expected, left interest rates unchanged.
Traders said Jeffrey Schafer, Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs, set off a round of dollar-buying in the afternoon by telling reporters in Washington that "our exchange rate policy hasn't changed," and that a strong currency was in America's interests. His remarks temporarily quelled fears among traders about the currency's direction in President Clinton's second term.
"I think the United States, by reaffirming its position, still is looking for a stronger dollar," said Stephen Flanagan, a currency trader at the New York branch of Credit Agricole.
Fears that the dollar's 19-month strengthening against the yen had peaked began to grow last Thursday, when Eisuke Sakakibara, an influential Japanese finance official, suggested that the yen's period of weakness was over.
The conspicuous absence of a United States response to Mr. Sakakibara's assertion had raised further speculation of a policy change and sent the dollar tumbling against the yen.
The pound rose as as high as $1.6604, the highest since mid-October 1992. before settling in New York at $1.6525, up from $1.6460 on Tuesday.
The pound strengthened sharply after the British Government reported a larger-than-expected decline in the October unemployment rate, to 7.2 percent from 7.4 percent in September, as well as higher labor costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (54%); ACA (BIT) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



305 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Pope Tells U.N. Group Population Control Is No Cure for Hunger

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 13

 BODY:
In an opening address at the World Food Summit here, Pope John Paul II injected a hint of old controversies today as he chided those who link hunger with overpopulation.
"We must renounce the sophist view which holds that 'to be many is to condemn ourselves to be poor,' " the Pope said, returning to the issue of population control that had pitted the Vatican against the United States and other Western countries at earlier conferences sponsored by the United Nations. 
 But the World Food Summit, a five-day conference that is expected to draw more than 50 heads of state by week's end, has been billed from the start as a noncontroversial gathering, where delegations from 173 countries are expected to adopt a document prepared beforehand that will avoid any late-hour clashes.
Convening in the shadow of the unfolding crisis in central Africa, delegates were urged from all sides not only to come to the rescue of those who have been made hungry by war and disaster, but also to work to give them what they need to sustain themselves.
"At the very moment this summit is taking place, over a million starving, frightened refugees are wandering helpless in the mountains and forests of eastern Zaire," the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, said. He called on all nations to take part in "collective action" in the region.
One of the guiding principles of this conference -- where governments will take a nonbinding pledge to halve the number of hungry people by the year 2015 -- is not to re-open debates over issues like population control and abortion that had dominated previous United Nations conferences at Cairo and Beijing.
Still, Pope John Paul II, who has strongly reaffirmed the Roman Catholic Church's ban against artificial birth control, took the opportunity to challenge those who argue that population control is a major weapon in the fight against hunger.
"It would be illusory to believe that an arbitrary stabilization of the world population, or even its reduction, could solve the problem of hunger directly," he said.
Instead, the Pope urged leaders to close the "intolerable" gap between "those who lack the bare necessities and those who squander freely."
The Pope, whose expected meeting with President Fidel Castro of Cuba has given the summit conference its main element of suspense, also criticized the developed world indirectly, by pointing to the "sometimes stifling burden of international debt" on poorer nations, and to the excess use of economic embargoes.
The Vatican has been a persistent critic of embargoes, like the American action against Cuba, which it says hurts ordinary people more than their governments.
Jacques Diouf, director general of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the host of the conference, today echoed the Pope's tone when he warned delegates that issues of food and water could lead to conflicts in the next century if world leaders do not pay heed.
Mr. Diouf, who is from Senegal, pointed out that the annual budget for the United Nations food agency is "less than what nine developed countries spend on dog and cat food in six days and, listen to me, less than 5 percent of what the inhabitants of one developed country spend each year on slimming products to counter the effect of overeating."
The heads of state, who are expected to start arriving on Thursday night, are coming mostly from the developing world, while most industrialized countries will be represented the cabinet level. The American delegation is headed by Secretary of Agriculture, Dan Glickman.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (90%); CUBA (85%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ITALY (73%); EGYPT (71%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (73%); CAIRO, EGYPT (71%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (90%); CUBA (85%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ITALY (73%); EGYPT (71%); ROME, ITALY (73%); CAIRO, EGYPT (71%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; POPULATION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); STARVATION (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



306 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Michael Moynihan, 68, Free-Trade Champion

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Michael W. Moynihan, an advocate of free trade who served in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Tuesday at his home in Kitty Hawk, N.C. He was 68.
Mr. Moynihan, a brother of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, suffered from prostate cancer, although the cause of death has not been determined, his family said. 
 From 1980 to 1990, Mr. Moynihan worked for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris, a group that aims to coordinate the economic policies of more than 20 of the world's wealthiest nations. He served first as the organization's director of information and later became its representative in Washington.
After his retirement in 1992, he became a consultant, working in support of United States approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, both of which ultimately won ratification by Congress.
Much earlier, during the Kennedy Administration, Mr. Moynihan was the spokesman for the new White House Office of the President's Special Trade Representative. Then, in the Johnson Administration, he served as director of the information service of the Agency for International Development.
Later he was director of public affairs for the Port of New York Authority, and then from 1967 to 1980 was the president of his own public affairs consulting firm, with offices in New York and Washington.
It was at one point in this period that critics questioned his representing a Saudi delegation that visited Washington in 1977 to meet with President Jimmy Carter. But Mr. Moynihan rejected the critics' suggestions that he might influence his elder brother, Senator Moynihan, a New York Democrat and staunch supporter of Israel, by saying, "I wouldn't want to work for anyone who is so dumb that he thought I could get favors out of my brother."
Mr. Moynihan was born in Teaneck, N.J., and grew up in Manhattan and the Long Island City section of Queens. He received a bachelor of science degree in social studies from the City College of New York in 1951 and a master of arts degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, administered by Harvard and Tufts, in 1952.
He is survived by his wife, the former Helena Ferris Smith; two sons, Michael Jr., of Washington, and Eamon, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Mary Schmandt of Chevy Chase, Md.; a grandchild, and two brothers -- the Senator, and Thomas Stapelfeld of Canton, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael W. Moynihan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION (65%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPROVALS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, MICHAEL; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE; MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) JOHN F KENNEDY (91%); JIMMY CARTER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



307 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Investments in Stock Mutual Funds Declined 25% in October

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Cash flows to equity mutual funds fell 25 percent in October, to $13 billion, a trade group said, as uncertainty over the strength of the economy and over the outcome of the fall elections tempered investors' long-running love affair with stocks.
The estimate, released yesterday by the Investment Company Institute, confirmed anecdotal evidence supplied last week by the FMR Corporation's Fidelity Investments, the country's largest fund company, and Charles Schwab & Company, the biggest discount seller of funds. Both saw investors' appetites fall sharply last month. 
 But just as stock prices roared ahead after the elections, so too did inflows to mutual funds. Independent analysts who track mutual fund flows reported that fund companies received a resurgent wave of fresh cash in the first half of November.
Investors remained cool toward bond funds last month, withdrawing an estimated $500 million, according to the Investment Company Institute. While bond funds attracted $2 billion in net inflows in September following three consecutive months of net withdrawals, that optimism now appears to have faded.
John Rea, chief economist for the mutual fund trade group, which released the estimates yesterday, said that anecdotal information indicated that the slowdown in October stock fund flows seemed to be concentrated among domestic funds. Those funds, which invest primarily in stocks of United States companies, accounted for about 80 percent of net inflows to stock funds in August and September.
While October's result is down sharply from the approximately $17 billion that stock funds have taken in during each of the last two months, it hardly represents a disaster. Before last year, stock fund inflows exceeded $13 billion in a single month on only a handful of occasions. And in 1990, net inflows for the entire year fell just short of $13 billion. So far in 1996, however, inflows have topped that level in nine of 10 months.
In addition, October's short-term nervousness appears to have passed, said Charles Biderman, president of Trim Tabs Financial Services, a Santa Rosa, Calif., company that tracks fund flows. In the days immediately following Election Day, when the stock market began its latest upward march, equity funds took in money at the fastest rate since January, he said. Since the beginning of November, net inflows to stock funds have proceeded at a monthly rate of more than $20 million.
A four-week moving average of stock fund inflows tracked by AMG Data Services of Arcata, Calif., which measures fund flows on a weekly basis, turned upward in the week ended Nov. 6 after falling for four consecutive weeks.
Some of the weakness in bond funds, meanwhile, could be coming from the municipal bond sector, which has had a lackluster year. At Schwab, municipal funds suffered net outflows for each of the last two months, while taxable bond funds took in close to $100 million monthly.
Schwab investors added $358 million to domestic growth stock funds in October, down from more than $1 billion in September; international stock funds, however, took in $188 million, up from $174 million the previous month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE FMR CORP (92%); CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (72%); AMG DATA SERVICES (51%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); ELECTIONS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD CHARLES R SCHWAB (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



308 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Justices Weigh Suits Over Going Too Far to Protect Environment

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
An unusual environmental case that was argued before the Supreme Court today found the Clinton Administration struggling to defend its view that people can sue the Government for doing too little to protect endangered species, but not for doing too much.
Like many other environmental laws, the Endangered Species Act includes a "citizen suit" provision that permits "any person" to sue officials of the Interior or Commerce Departments for failing to carry out their responsibilities under the law. 
 Typically, such suits are brought by environmentalists complaining about lax enforcement or underregulation. The question for the Court today was whether this provision and the others like it are, in effect, double-edged swords: whether people whose economic interests are harmed by action taken to protect endangered species can sue to stop what they view as overregulation.
"The citizen suit provision is designed to advance the purposes of species protection," Deputy Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler told the Court.
The provision, Mr. Kneedler said, was limited to suits over "actions that would harm a species" rather than those that would harm private economic interests.
The Justices were openly skeptical of what several called a "one-way construction" of the citizen suit provision. "You just read resource-user protection out of the act," Justice Anthony M. Kennedy told Mr. Kneedler, adding that "we should be very cautious" about departing from "the normal rule of neutrality" in the legal system.
The case was brought by a group of ranchers and irrigation districts in Oregon, seeking to stop the Interior Department from limiting the release of water from the reservoirs of the Klamath Irrigation Project near the Oregon-California border. The plaintiffs have contracts with the Government to use the water from the project. In 1992, the Fish and Wildlife Service issued a report warning that the reservoirs needed to keep higher water levels, with less water to be released for irrigation, to protect the habitat of two endangered species of fish, the Lost River sucker and the shortnose sucker.
This report was the first step in a procedure under the Endangered Species Act that could lead to a formal action setting new water levels in the reservoirs. The lawsuit sought to have the report withdrawn on the ground that its scientific judgments were incorrect and that the agency had failed to consider the economic impact of its proposed action.
Two lower courts, the Federal District Court in Eugene, Ore., and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, dismissed the suit on the ground that people seeking to stop a regulatory action did not have standing to bring a citizen suit. "Only plaintiffs who allege an interest in the preservation of endangered species fall within the zone of interests protected by the Endangered Species Act," Judge Stephen Reinhardt wrote for the appeals court in a 1995 opinion.
In urging the Supreme Court to uphold the Ninth Circuit's judgment, the Administration did not embrace Judge Reinhardt's broad language, instead offering the Court a series of procedural and technical reasons why the ranchers' suit should not be permitted to proceed. The plaintiffs had sued the wrong official, Mr. Kneedler said; the Fish and Wildlife Service's report was simply advisory and did not commit the Interior Department, of which the service is a part, to final action.
But despite these efforts to deflect the Court's interest, the Justices appeared quite eager to get to the merits of the case and grapple with the meaning of the citizen suit provision.
Gregory K. Wilkinson, arguing for the plaintiffs, told the Court that the Ninth Circuit's decision would lead to "discrimination against economic-based claimants" and "one-sided enforcement of the Endangered Species Act." Mr. Wilkinson said the value of his clients' land had dropped sharply because of the threat to the water supply.
The case, Bennett v. Spear, No. 95-813, has attracted considerable attention not only because the question is a novel one for the Court, but also because the Court's interpretation could affect citizen suit provisions under the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and other environmental laws.
Environmental groups have been particularly wary of the implications of the case. They are usually on the side of trying to persuade a reluctant Supreme Court to maintain access to court, under legal doctrines governing who has "standing" to bring a lawsuit, for those who want to challenge Government regulatory action that affects the environment. But in this case, the groups' interests are served by a narrower rather than broader interpretation of standing.
Faced with this problem, environmental groups filed no briefs in the case. There were several briefs on the ranchers' side, including one from California and 13 other states. A brief from the National Association of Home Builders and other organizations in the building industry argued that the Ninth Circuit's decision would result in "stripping regulated parties of any means to defend themselves" while leaving "free rein to environmental groups to encourage and, indeed, to force the Endangered Species Act's expansion."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (92%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); IRRIGATION (86%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); FISHES (77%); STANDING TO SUE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); WATER RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA STEPHEN REINHARDT (79%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



309 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rates Not Changed By Fed Panel

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve voted to keep interest rates unchanged today, as the Government's report on producer prices provided the latest evidence that inflation remained quiescent despite a surge last month in food and energy costs.
With both the Fed and financial markets scrutinizing data for signs that inflation may be infecting the economy, the Labor Department's Producer Price Index showed that prices at the producer level actually fell by three-tenths of 1 percent last month when food and energy, which are notoriously volatile, were excluded. The decline in the so-called core component, while driven in part by technical factors, was the steepest in two years. 
 Including food and energy, the index told a very different story: a rise in producer prices for finished goods of four-tenths of 1 percent, the biggest increase since March. But food prices are already showing signs of leveling off after surging in recent months, and the outlook is for energy prices to continue increasing but at a more moderate pace. Producer prices are the prices that manufacturers and farmers charge for the products they sell to retailers, distributors or other buyers.
Indeed, the markets, many economists and presumably the Fed concentrated on the decline in the core rate to conclude that despite steady growth and low unemployment in the sixth year since the end of the last recession, the economy is showing no sustained signs of slipping into the kind of upward wage-price spiral that typically derails expansions.
"Those folks who are ever vigilant against inflation could certainly point to the 0.4 percent increase in the overall number, and those who think inflation is benign are going to seize on the 0.3 percent drop in the core," said Veronika White, an economist at the First Union Corporation in Philadelphia. "The truth lies somewhere in the middle. It's a benign environment, but I don't think inflation is falling."
Despite signs that inflation is still largely contained, bond prices ended slightly lower. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- a benchmark for mortgages and other consumer and corporate interest rates -- edged up to 6.45 percent from 6.44 percent. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions.
With the economy's growth rate having decelerated in the third quarter, and with few signs that it is overheating in the current quarter, the Fed's decision to leave monetary policy unchanged had been widely anticipated. Economists said the continuing lack of evidence of an inflationary threat suggested that the Fed would keep rates unchanged at its last policy-making meeting of the year, on Dec. 17, and perhaps well into next year.
The Fed, as usual, gave no explanation of its decision or any details of its vote. Economists said the only question was whether the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee had voted to remove from its policy the formal bias toward raising rates that it adopted this summer, when fears of an overheating economy were more acute.
The Fed has held rates steady since January, when it trimmed its Federal funds target rate to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent and dropped its discount rate by a quarter-point to 5 percent.
Some economists remain convinced that the tight labor market will eventually lead to a rise in wages sharp enough to cause an acceleration of inflation. The Fed has reported anecdotal evidence of strong wage increases in various regions for months. But there is some evidence that workers, still worried about their jobs in an era of downsizing, are reluctant to push hard for higher wages, and that companies that do raise wages are absorbing the costs rather than trying to pass them along to consumers.
Today's upbeat if somewhat muddied news about inflation in the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods was matched at earlier stages in the production chain. For intermediate goods, prices were flat, and excluding food and energy, they were down one-tenth of 1 percent. For crude goods -- the very beginning of the production pipeline -- prices were down six-tenths of 1 percent, the second consecutive monthly decline. Excluding food and energy, however, the crude goods index was up three-tenths of 1 percent.
"Taken at face value there's really no inflation to worry about at the finished goods level or really any other level for that matter," said Paul Kasriel, an economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
Much of the decline in the core index for finished goods came from a decline in automobile and truck prices. Those price drops -- down 1.6 percent for cars -- primarily reflected a statistical anomaly relating to the way the Labor Department accounts for new-model-year introductions each October.
As a result, economists said, the core index is unlikely to show a drop of the same magnitude for this month. On the other hand, they said, the overall index is unlikely to show such a sharp increase in producer prices since food and energy price increases appear to be cooling off. As a result, the unusually large gap between the core index and the overall index will probably narrow in coming months, they said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Producer Prices" tracks index of finished goods prices, seasonally adjusted, from May 1995 through October 1996. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FOOD; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRODUCER PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); EVIDENCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



310 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Government Bond Prices Hold Steady

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Government bond prices were little changed yesterday, despite relief that the Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged.
The benchmark 30-year bond was off 3/32, to a price of 100 23/32, for a yield of 6.45 percent. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, was up from 6.44 percent on Tuesday. Prices of some securities with shorter maturities rose slightly. 
 Prices generally fell in early trading, despite a favorable report on producer prices for October, which would normally help the bond market. That hesitation, before today's report on consumer prices and retail sales, left many market participants wondering what it would take for bond prices to continue their recent move higher. Yields have been at their lowest levels since March.
The October Producer Price Index showed that the core rate, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, down three-tenths of 1 percent, after analysts expected it to be up. The overall index was up four-tenths of 1 percent, more than expected. Traders said the market nevertheless elected to focus on the core inflation rate instead.
Jack Ablin, director of fixed-income activities and senior fund manager at the Private Bank of the Bank of Boston, said he thought that traders saw the higher energy prices as a sign of inflation. Still, he said, companies might have to absorb those higher prices, rather than passing them on to customers, thus helping keep consumer prices stable. "While oil prices are indeed higher," he said, "we see it more as a tax than an inflation factor."
Mr. Ablin said the dollar strengthened in the afternoon, probably because of some Japanese buying. The strong dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Government securities attractive to foreign investors.
The economy for the most part has not given the Open Market Committee, the policy-setting body of the Federal Reserve, any reason to raise rates, because it is still expanding at a moderate pace and inflation seems to be under control.
Lou Brien, an analyst with Finacor Vendome Inc., a Chicago brokerage firm, said that the market had assumed that the Fed would leave rates unchanged yesterday. Still, he said, the announcement relieved traders and helped spur some buying after the early weakness. Mr. Brien said that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, had been correct in predicting in testimony to Congress in July that the economy would slow toward the end of the year. "The steady policy has thus been justified in the summer and now," Mr. Brien said. "I think the next rate move, even though it might be several months from now, will be down. The bottom line for the Fed is that inflation is at or below the trend."
Mr. Brien said analysts were expecting a three-tenths of 1 percent gain in the overall consumer price index, with the core rate up two-tenths of 1 percent. He said they expected a gain of five-tenths of 1 percent in retail sales.
The Treasury announced yesterday that it would auction $30.75 billion in new two-year and five-year notes next week that will raise a combined $2.425 billion in new cash. Following are the results of the Treasury's sale of 34-day cash management bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.509
Discounted Rate . . . 5.20%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.30%
High Price . . . 99.509
Discounted Rate . . . 5.20%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.30%
Low Price . . . 99.510
Discounted Rate . . . 5.19%
Coupon Yield . . . 5.29%
Accepted at low price . . . 38%
Total applied for . . . $61,367,850
Accepted . . . $13,217,310
Noncompetitive . . . $850
 
The 34-day cash management bills mature on Dec. 19, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



311 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
G.O.P. Quest To Narrow Gender Gap

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI recasts himself as the Education Mayor. Gov. George E. Pataki embraces the environment. And Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, former Whitewater buff, pledges to focus henceforth on "the things people want" (presumably after he cures breast cancer with a bond act).
Welcome to the era of the 52 percent special-interest group. Women. 
 The way women voted last week had a lot to do with Bill Clinton's victory and Bob Dole's defeat. And the way women vote is likely to influence strongly whether Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Pataki and Mr. D'Amato win re-election in 1997 and 1998. Because as never before, the Gender Gap is influencing election results.
In 1980, men were 8 percentage points more likely to support Ronald Reagan than women were. Last week, according to a poll by the Voter News Service, the gap between men and women was 11 percentage points, with 43 percent of the men voting for Mr. Clinton, compared with 54 percent of the women. Women gave Mr. Dole only 38 percent of their votes, while 44 percent of the men supported him. Mr. Clinton did best with younger women, single women and black women.
New York's exit poll results on the Presidential race were similar and included signs of trouble for local Republicans. For instance, Mr. D'Amato's approval rating was 8 points lower among women than men; Mr. Pataki's was 7 points lower among women than among men. The poll did not ask about Mr. Giuliani.
WHAT is going on? It is not exclusively the abortion issue. The gap held even in Massachusetts, where Senator John Kerry and Gov. William F. Weld, his Republican rival, both backed abortion rights. Nor is it that women are innately more sympathetic and liberal than men -- stereotypes that many women find offensive.
To sociologists and political scientists, what cuts across all lines is that most fundamental of ballot-box issues: economics.
"It's a mistake to interpret the gender gap as some fundamental or essential difference between women and men -- a feminine versus masculine outlook," said Kathleen Gerson, professor of sociology at New York University. "It is rooted in the different social positions men and women occupy -- in self-interest."
Federal statistics show that 59.5 percent of American women 16 and over are in the work force. Women are more likely to be responsible for caring for children and aging parents, so are more involved with education and health care. Many women, then, look on government as a necessity, not a wasteful incursion into their assets.
"When men hear less government, they hear less taxes," said Kathleen Severin, a Republican media strategist. "When women hear less government, it's the equivalent of hearing downsizing. They think: 'Oh my God, less services, less stuff that I need. Less Medicare means I have to pay more for my mother's care. Less education means I may not be able to send my kids to college.' "
IN the New York exit poll, 54 percent of women wanted government to do more, compared with 45 percent of the men. Only 41 percent of the women wanted less government, while 51 percent of the men did. Asked what issue mattered most to them, twice as many men as women cited the deficit, while twice as many women as men said education. "It's about government making their lives work," said Ethel Klein, president of EDK Associates, a public opinion research firm. "They don't see government services as a handout."
New York Republicans acknowledge their vulnerability, in terms that make them sound like the flip side of Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker whose popularity plummeted the more passionately he pledged to shrink government.
"The public wants to know what government is going to do for families," said Jeanine F. Pirro, the Westchester District Attorney. Representative Susan Molinari of Staten Island says her party has to explain better how it is "responsive to people's needs." Peter J. Powers, who will run Mr. Giuliani's re-election campaign, says Republicans have to take on child care, preferably through tax credits: "If you want to talk family values, you'd better address child care."
Mr. Giuliani himself, long at odds with the Board of Education, has just found an extra $70 million for textbooks. No surprise, and no coincidence, either. Women, who rate education as the most important issue, accounted for 52 percent of the national vote last week. But in the last mayoral race, they cast 57 percent of the vote. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VOTERS NEWS SERVICE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOTERS NEWS SERVICE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; WOMEN; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); PARENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (74%); BONDS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); ABORTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BREAST CANCER (57%); AGING (50%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



312 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Guessing Game in the Capital: Future of Attorney General

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Three years after Attorney General Janet Reno emerged as a surprise star of the Clinton Cabinet, she has skidded to a stop at an unexpected career crossroads. She has said she wants to stay on at the Justice Department, but President Clinton has pointedly passed up opportunities to say he would keep her.
While there is no indication that Mr. Clinton plans to dismiss Ms. Reno, his unwillingness to endorse quickly her stewardship reflects longstanding strains between the White House and the Justice Department that have eroded her standing within Mr. Clinton's inner circle even as she retains her luster outside Washington. 
 Some Presidential aides expressed disappointment that Ms. Reno had failed to take political heat for Mr. Clinton and said they felt she had been too willing to refer cases involving the President's close associates to independent prosecutors. But they acknowledged that Mr. Clinton could face a blast of protest from Republicans if he tried to demand Ms. Reno's resignation now, while she is mulling their requests for an independent counsel to examine Democratic fund-raising.
Among White House aides, the gripes about Ms. Reno seem to be generalized and specific, clearly detectable but publicly untraceable to any particular senior official. In recent days, when several top Clinton advisers were asked to sum up objections to her, all did so only on condition of anonymity and only while insisting that they were repeating the complaints they had heard from others, not offering their own.
The complaints have not led to a decision to find a successor, said officials who predicted that Mr. Clinton would reluctantly extend Ms. Reno's tenure.
"My personal conviction is that the President's not going to be in a position to do what he wants to do," which is replace her, one senior White House aide said this week.
Instead, the White House appears content to let Ms. Reno dangle embarrassingly without an immediate decision on her future. The White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, has told colleagues that Ms. Reno's fate will be chronologically one of the last questions to be addressed in the transition of forming the new Cabinet, with no decision until at least December. Of course, that will only have the effect on increasing the attention on any decision the President might make, since Ms. Reno would not be among a batch of appointees resigning at once.
Ms. Reno's aides said they had heard nothing from the White House. They added that her publicly stated position on her tenure -- that she likes the job and would stay if the President desired -- was meant as a candid expression of her thinking and was not intended to suggest that she was campaigning for the job. But to the chagrin of Ms. Reno's supporters, some White House aides have interpreted her comments as an effort to tie Mr. Clinton's hands.
Presidential aides do not see the strapping, idiosyncratic Attorney General, who relishes her outsider image, as one of their own. Mr. Clinton, who might turn to Education Secretary Richard W. Riley to jawbone about politics or to Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin for a chat on economics, rarely, if ever, turns to Ms. Reno for serious discussions about the law or criminal justice matters.
Still, Attorneys General have long since transcended their one-time role as Presidential confidants. The rapid expansion of the Justice Department in the past two decades into a 90,000-employee agency increasingly focused on crime-fighting has made the job too managerially demanding for a mere crony. But within the Clinton White House, it is not Ms. Reno, but her deputy, Jamie S. Gorelick, who is perceived as the official who makes the trains run on time.
While the White House complaints over Ms. Reno's early emphasis on crime prevention and children have abated with her uncritical embrace of Mr. Clinton's emphatically centrist anti-crime agenda, irritations linger over specific judgment calls Ms. Reno has made to seek the appointment of independent counsels.
Some Presidential aides say she has trivialized the role of an independent counsel by seeking them in relatively routine cases, like whether Housing Secretary Henry G. Cisneros was truthful in a background inquiry about the size of payments to a former mistress.
Others were infuriated last month when Ms. Reno authorized Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent prosecutor, to investigate the truthfulness of statements made at a Congressional hearing by Bernard W. Nussbaum, the former White House counsel and ally of Hillary Rodham Clinton. Presidential aides contended that Ms. Reno could have legally defended a decision to keep the issue out of Mr. Starr's hands. But Justice Department officials said she had little choice under the law.
So far, Ms. Reno has sought the appointment of four independent counsels, and is considering complaints that could lead to a fifth to investigate whether Democrats illegally funneled overseas money into their campaign coffers. Her first appointment, in the Whitewater affair, came at the request of the White House. Later she sought counsels to investigate Mr. Cisneros, former Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown and former Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy.
Ms. Reno may not set a record. President Ronald Reagan's three Attorneys General, referred a total of eight cases to independent counsels during Mr. Reagan's two terms.
In recent days she has shown signs that she is willing to take a more steely posture, rejecting as too vague two requests for the immediate appointment of an independent prosecutor to investigate campaign financing. Ms. Reno's aides said her decision had nothing to do with her job status but were statutory judgments that she was obliged to make under the independent counsel act.
But Justice Department lawyers are still evaluating a more detailed request by Senator John McCain of Arizona and several other Republican lawmakers that she must decide by the end of the month.
In part, however unhappy the White House is with Ms. Reno's handling of independent prosecutors, she may be untouchable simply because she is considering yet another one. To drop her now would almost certainly be attacked by Republicans as a self-protective maneuver by the President; any replacement in those circumstances would be attacked as a political pasty.
Ms. Reno's job security also seems enhanced by the absence of strong candidates to replace her. And beyond that, any successor would face the near certainty of a bruising confirmation battle in the Republican controlled Senate.
Outgoing Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, who was once widely regarded as a contender for the Attorney General's job, withdrew from consideration having concluded that no close partisan of the President should even seek the job.
Some in the White House, including George Stephanopoulos, had urged Mr. Clinton to demand undated resignation letters from all Cabinet members after Election Day, as an easy means of replacing those he wanted to. Some Presidents have done that, but Mr. Panetta was said to believe it would be disruptive and preferred instead to let members know quietly of the President's preferences.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Reno, whose future as Attorney General is in doubt, on Tuesday at the James A. Baker 3d Institute for Public Policy in Houston. (pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; WHITEWATER CASE; FINANCES ; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ETHICS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); 

PERSON: RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN); JOHNSTON, DAVID; PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



313 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Hartford Plan Aims to Help Pay for College

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The State Treasurer proposed two programs today to encourage parents to save for their children's college education, including a tuition prepayment plan similar to those in 11 other states, including Massachusetts.
The prepayment plan would let parents pay all or a part of a child's tuition at current rates, with a guarantee that the payment would cover the child's education cost regardless of inflation or later tuition increases. The other plan would allow parents, through the state, to invest in mutual funds to save for college without having to pay taxes on the interest. 
 State Treasurer Christopher B. Burnham said some taxes would be due when the money was withdrawn for college, but at the student's tax rate. "It is a wonderful program which I think is going to help our residents save for their children's college education," he said.
Both proposals require approval by the State Legislature, and Democrats, who in January will control both houses of the Legislature, said today that they were willing to support a college savings program.
But State Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, the Democratic Senate leader, said he was concerned the prepayment program might leave public colleges in 10 or 20 years with a debt they could not handle, if tuition costs have risen more than the interest on the original tuition payment.
The House Education Committee chairman, Cameron C. Staples, a Democrat, said he preferred a program that gives parents more flexibility and security. In a prepayment program, parents sign up only for Connecticut colleges that decide to participate. The prepayment program would work this way: if the University of Connecticut tuition was $10,000 a year and a parent invested $1,000, the parent would be credited with 10 percent of whatever the tuition was when the student enrolled.
Mr. Burnham said several colleges have expressed interest, although spokesmen at two colleges reached this afternoon, Yale University and UConn, said it was too early to say if they would participate. In 1994, Yale eliminated a similar program of its own that let parents pay for four years at the freshman-year rate.
Scott Brohinsky, director of university and governmental relations at UConn, said the university must look at the financial implications for the school. But he applauded the Treasurer and the state for addressing the problem of paying for college. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (77%); STATE LEGISLATURE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; MUTUAL FUNDS TUITION FEES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); 

PERSON: BURNHAM, CHRISTOPHER CHRISTOPHER B BURNHAM (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



314 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Westinghouse to Spin Off Industrial Businesses
After months of prodding from Wall Street, Westinghouse said that it would spin off its remaining industrial businesses to shareholders and focus on its radio and television operations.
But investors, who had bid up the price of Westinghouse shares by about 20 percent over the course of the last week on reports that a sweeping reorganization was in the offing, chose to sell on the news. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Stocks Rise on Fed Inaction
Stocks rose after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged and investors looked to corporate earnings for their cues. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.20 points, to 6,274.24, its sixth consecutive record close, on higher than average volume. [Page D8.]
 
But retail stocks endured a second day of pounding, with some companies paying for the weak earnings of their peers. Dillard Department Stores announced disappointing earnings and Federated Department Stores had healthy profits, yet both stocks fell. The Standard & Poor's retail index fell 1.7 percent, to 382.75. [D3.]
 
Bond traders were relieved by the Fed's decision, but prices barely budged. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.45 percent from 6.44. [D15.]
 
Stock Funds Draw Less Cash
Cash flows into equity mutual funds fell by 25 percent in October, to $13 billion, a trade group said, as uncertainty over the strength of the economy and over the outcome of the November elections tempered investors' long-running love affair with stocks. [D24.]
 
Another British-U.S. Utility Deal
Dominion Resources, continuing an American invasion of the British utility industry, agreed to acquire East Midlands Electricity for about $2.15 billion. [D4.]
 
Drug Helps Prevent Heart Attacks
A study has found that a blood thinner called clopidogrel is more effective than aspirin in warding off heart attacks and strokes in people who have clogged arteries. Clopidogrel is being jointly developed by Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb. [A18.]
 
Tougher Nasdaq Standard Proposed
The Nasdaq stock market, after being embarrassed by scandals that involved penny stocks, is proposing stricter listing standards that it said could cause hundreds of companies to be dropped from its listings. [D2.]
 
I.B.M. in Educational Software Deal
I.B.M. took its first big step toward becoming a major seller of educational software to schools and homes, saying it would buy Edmark for about $110 million. [D3.]
 
Pepsi Returning To Venezuela
Pepsi is coming back to Venezuela, five months after its bottler and distributor switched to Coke. Pepsico formed a venture with a brewer to bottle and distribute Pepsi, which had been the dominant soft drink in Venezuela before Coke's coup. [D5.]
 
Growth, Not Inflation, Is Up in China
China's chief banker said that the Government had achieved what few economists thought it could: high growth and low inflation. [D4.]
 
Limit on Workweek Is Rejected
Prime Minister John Major has plunged Britain into another clash with its 14 European Union partners by rejecting a court ruling that mandates a maximum workweek of 48 hours, including overtime. [A7.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 6,274.24, up 8.20
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.45%, up 0.01
The Dollar -- 111.79 yen, up 0.45
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Consumer Price Index
 October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.3%
 
Retail Sales
 October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.4%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: D (NYSE) (57%); DL7A (FRA) (56%); DDS (NYSE) (56%); M (NYSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); SNY (NYSE) (52%); SANF (BIT) (52%); SAN (PAR) (52%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (52%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%); PEP (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOMINION RESOURCES INC (57%); DILLARD'S INC (56%); MACY'S INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); SANOFI SA (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%); PEPSICO INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ANTICOAGULANTS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CASH FLOW (75%); RETAILERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (68%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (68%); HEART DISEASE (68%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); STROKES (63%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



315 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: The First Turnaround

 BODY:
It may be remembered as President Clinton's first post-election flip-flop, but he was right to let Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin correct his tactical error on the balanced-budget amendment. It was probably just a hangover from triangulation that caused Mr. Clinton to say Tuesday that he could live with the balanced-budget amendment if the Republicans in Congress pushed it through. The Wednesday morning headlines about Mr. Clinton's rush to surrender cleared everyone's thinking, and with White House blessings, Mr. Rubin said yesterday that the Administration will fight the Republicans' foolish passion for this paralyzing amendment. It is a fight worth making, because common sense has a chance to prevail.
Mr. Clinton's basic instincts are correct. He told reporters on Tuesday that the amendment is unnecessary. But in an excess of his habitual pliability, he added that the amendment could be acceptable if it included an "escape hatch" during recessions. The problem with this formulation was that it ripped the political cover that a President fresh from an electoral landslide can offer to Democrats and renegade Republicans brave enough to vote no on this popular yet harmful proposal. Mr. Clinton helped defeat it last year, and now that Mr. Rubin has stiffened his spine, he could win again this year despite the Republican control on Capitol Hill. 
 In its current form, the amendment would require the Government to balance the budget unless three-fifths of the House and Senate vote to run a deficit. Mr. Clinton seemed to suggest that a simple majority override would suit him. Such an approach would not really address the economic and legislative problems that the amendment will bring. Its goal, a zero deficit, represents dangerous overkill. The United States runs smaller deficits, relative to the size of its economy, than nearly any other industrialized country. There is good reason to keep deficits low, but there is no compelling reason to hit zero. The Federal budget makes no distinction between spending on paper clips and spending on long-term investments, like mass-transit systems. A zero-deficit target will compel Congress to cut expensive items first rather than tackle 1,000 different constituencies by going after small items. The process will squeeze out public investments on which the future health of the economy depends.
The amendment would also break a crutch that helps prop up a sagging economy. When incomes fall, tax revenues fall and government spending -- for example, for unemployment insurance -- rises. But with an arbitrary deficit target, Congress will be required to make mindless cuts in spending or raise taxes, thereby smothering an already weak economy. Even with the majority-vote escape clause mentioned by Mr. Clinton, the reality is that Congress rarely knows the economy has turned down until it is too late to take corrective action.
By speculating about an amendment, Mr. Clinton was recognizing the fact that a President cannot veto a constitutional amendment, which requires a two-thirds majority in each house. But his tactic of hinting at compromise was wrong. The amendment carried the House two years ago by only a dozen votes. It then failed in the Senate by one vote. The November elections brought more proponents to the Senate, but fewer to the House. More important, as Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, admitted earlier this week, some Democrats who voted yes two years ago are likely to change sides if their vote would alter the outcome. Mr. Rubin has reminded the President that this battle can be won, if he will stand and fight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



316 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Aides See Windfall In Revenues

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's top aides said last night that because of rising profits on Wall Street, the city would take in $450 million more in taxes this fiscal year than had been projected, allowing the Mayor to increase spending and scale back budget cuts as he begins his re-election campaign.
The aides said the Mayor would announce today that he would use the extra revenue to raise spending by $270 million. Some of the new revenue will be allocated for recycling programs to help the city meet its goal of closing the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island by 2001, Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said. 
 The Mayor had trimmed more than $25 million for recycling in his original $33 billion budget, which was approved by the City Council in June, stirring criticism from environmental groups. Mr. Mastro declined to say how much the Mayor would restore to the recycling budget, saying only that it would be in the millions of dollars.
More than $100 million of the additional revenue will go to cover growing overtime and other expenses arising from the Police Department's crackdown on drug dealing. The $270 million in new spending also includes $70 million for books for the public schools, a plan Mr. Giuliani first presented last week. The Mayor's aides said the Mayor would reveal today how he would spend the remainder of the $270 million.
The Mayor will use the rest of the projected extra revenue, about $180 million, to patch holes that have opened up in his budget since the fiscal year began on July 1. Those shortfalls stemmed from what bond-rating agencies and others who monitor the city's finances said were overly optimistic assumptions about revenue from sources other than taxes.
Mr. Mastro and the Mayor's budget director, Joseph J. Lhota, said that because of the improving local economy, the Mayor was also reducing the size of budget cuts that he ordered in August, after the fiscal year had already started. Mr. Giuliani had told his agency heads then to come up with plans to cut a total of $500 million from their spending for the year, but now they will only have to find $180 million in savings, Mr. Mastro said. Administration officials have not disclosed where those cuts will be made.
Since Mr. Giuliani became Mayor in 1994, the slumping economy has repeatedly depressed tax revenues, forcing him to make new cuts. The proposal that he is to present today is the first that will give him the chance to reap the political benefits of a relatively stable economy.
The Mayor's Democratic rivals have often said they planned to paint him as a leader who has brazenly slashed the budget, threatening the most vulnerable members of society. In recent days, he has sought to repel those attacks by, for example, allocating the $70 million for schoolbooks.
While the city's job growth still lags behind that of the nation as a whole, it has begun to recover somewhat since the dark days of the recession, when the city lost 361,000 jobs.
The City Council, in fact, believes the Mayor's projection of $450 million in new revenues may be conservative. The Council says the number is closer to $525 million.
The Mayor's announcement today comes a few weeks after City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said tax revenues in the first quarter of the 1997 fiscal year alone were running $289 million higher than projections. Mr. Hevesi also said the city's economy had grown at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first half of the 1996 calendar year, faster than it had in the first half of any year since 1988.
Asked if Mr. Giuliani felt fortunate that the economy was rebounding just as he approached his re-election campaign, Mr. Mastro replied, "I see this as evidence that the Mayor's economic policies are working."
The city still faces serious long-term fiscal problems, mostly because expenses continue to rise faster than revenues. The Mayor's own budget analysts predict large budget gaps in the next four years that have alarmed fiscal monitors.
Mr. Mastro and Mr. Lhota emphasized that the Mayor was relying on some of the new revenues to revamp parts of the current budget that the monitors had attacked. For example, the budget had originally called for the city to earn more than $300 million from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to pay for back rent at the two city airports.
Mr. Giuliani contends that the authority has shortchanged the city over the years, and the two sides are in arbitration over the matter. The fiscal monitors had said that it was foolish for the Mayor to expect the dispute to be resolved this year, and in the proposal, he acknowledges that he will not get most of that money. Roughly speaking, in place of that $300 million in revenue from the Port Authority, the Mayor will substitute $180 million in revenues from the extra taxes and about $120 million from the savings he has ordered department heads to find. He is also planning to wipe away another risky assumption in the budget, one that calls for the city to reap $32 million from the sale of the city-owned United Nations Plaza Hotel.
These actions will affect the projected gap in the budget for the next year. It should drop from $1.7 billion to $1.2 billion, Mr. Mastro said.
"This is a plan that the bond-rating agencies and the fiscal monitors should love," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FRESH KILLS (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS ; LANDFILL; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; POLICE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEXTBOOKS BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BONDS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); LANDFILLS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (63%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MASTRO, RANDY M RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



317 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Offers U.S. Troops to Help Refugees in Zaire

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton gave initial approval today to the deployment of several thousand United States troops as part of a Canadian-led mission to avoid a human catastrophe and bring food and water to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees in Zaire, where aid supplies have been cut by recent fighting.
The White House announced that if certain conditions were nailed down in the next few days, the troops would take part in a four-month long effort involving as many as 15,000 troops from a dozen nations and led by a Canadian commander with a United States officer as his deputy. 
 "The President has decided that the United States is willing, in principle, to participate in a limited fashion in this mission as long as certain conditions are stipulated to," Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said at a mid-day briefing.
The announcement cleared the way for the United Nations Security Council to work on a resolution, already drafted by Canada, to authorize the international mission, perhaps by week's end. The statement was issued after a morning phone call between Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and a night of consultations between Canadian and American officials at the White House.
Mr. Clinton is expected to make a public statement about the Zaire deployment, as well as the role the United States plans to play in Bosnia next year, by midday Friday when he leaves for a trip to Australia and Asia, built around an Asian economic summit conference.
[In another matter related to the use of American troops abroad, NATO's Secretary General said he came away from a meeting with Vice President Al Gore with the conviction that the United States would keep some troops in Bosnia after the current mandate ends. Page A10.]
Administration officials said United States forces sent to East Africa would secure the airfield at Goma -- at the heart of relief operations in war-ravaged eastern Zaire -- as well as a three-mile corridor from Goma to the Rwandan border. The mission is intended to encourage the refugees, Hutu who fled Rwanda when a Tutsi-led Government won power in 1994, to return home.
They would also assist in the airlift of other troops to the region. American officials said that about 1,000 United States troops would be stationed in Zaire and an additional 2,000 to 3,000 troops would be based in neighboring countries like Kenya and Uganda.
Mr. Clinton's national security team has been quietly consulting with world leaders for weeks about the crisis in Zaire.
Administration officials said the caution and reserve with which the United States has approached an intervention force was not related to Mr. Clinton's re-election campaign but to a desire to avoid a repetition of the American experience in Somalia in 1993, when a similar relief mission conducted during a chaotic civil conflict drew American forces into the fighting there.
Mr. McCurry said today that under the conditions set by the United States, the international mission in eastern Zaire would be "very clearly defined" as an effort of four months' duration to enable civilian relief organizations to deliver aid to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees who have been cut off by fighting between Zairian rebels, the Zairian Army and Rwandan Hutu militias.
He said the force would also help the voluntary return of refugees to Rwanda, using relief supplies as a magnet. In Kinshasa, Zaire's capital, the Canadian special United Nations representative, Raymond Chretien, said food and clinics would be set up in Rwanda or along the protected corridor to encourage people to head home.
But how successful such an effort would be is a major question. Hutu guerrillas living among the refugees have used propaganda and intimidation during the last two years to prevent them from returning home, and many refugees fear reprisals by the Tutsi-led Rwanda Government.
Attacks on Rwanda by Hutu guerrillas based in the huge refugee camps near the border were a factor leading to the recent eruption of fighting. But the tentative plans for an international relief mission do not appear to include steps to prevent re-establishment of such camps.
Mr. McCurry said that the international force would not disarm the militias and would not force its way into the refugee camps or police them.
He said that the force would follow "very robust rules of engagement." Defense Secretary William J. Perry said the American decision to take part in the force was contingent on securing commitments by African countries involved, principally Zaire and Rwanda, not to interfere with the mission. He said contact would also have to be made with rebel forces in the area. "Our assumption is that we would have their acquiescence and cooperation," Mr. Perry said.
The Defense Secretary said an infantry battalion and armored helicopter gunships would be sent to Zaire to insure that the American mission was protected. American forces would report to an American general who would be deputy commander of the international force serving under Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, a Canadian officer.
Diplomatic efforts led by Richard Begosian, a special American envoy, were under way to secure the permission of the governments in the area to allow the international force in.
"We are talking about a dangerous environment," said Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman, "and that means that the work over the next couple of days on the ground has to be impressing upon the militias the importance of ceasing their fighting and cooperating with the international effort that's to be mounted."
But there were many signs that numerous difficulties remained. In an indication of the resistance the international forces might encounter, two teams from the Agency for International Development were turned back by Zairian rebels, Mr. Davies said.
Anthony Lake, the White House national security adviser, as well as Under Secretary of Defense Walter Slocombe and Lieut. Gen. Peter Pace, an Air Force officer who is the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are to be sent to the United Nations on Thursday to put the final touches on the mission with the Canadians, officials said.
Mr. McCurry said the President was also awaiting word from a Pentagon assessment team in Central Africa and a diplomatic team working in the region.
The President "reserves the right to review" the final plans, Mr. McCurry said, although he affirmed that Mr. Clinton "agrees that U.S. participation in this important humanitarian mission is vital."
American officials said troops could begin flying into Zaire as early as next week. A Pentagon official said the 1,000 American troops bound for Zaire would include about 600 soldiers from the 1st Battalion, 508th Airborne Infantry Regiment, based in Vicenza, Italy. The official said that about 150 Air Force personnel would set up a refueling base at the Goma airport.
Congressional leaders expressed concern for the plight of the refugees in Zaire, but said their support for the mission hinged on the Administration setting specific goals and a specific strategy for removing American troops.
"We're just waiting to get a briefing from the White House about their goals and time line," said Lauren Sims, a spokeswoman for Representative Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, the Speaker of the House.
Susan Irby, a spokeswoman for Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, the majority leader, said Mr. Lott was taking a "wait-and-see attitude" until the questions are resolved.
But at least one influential legislator, Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, raised objections to paying for the American deployment with money from the Pentagon's operations budget, the same account that pays for operations like pilot training.
"If they don't find an alternative funding source, then they'll have a lot of trouble here," said Marc Thiessen, a spokesman for Mr. Helms, who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "This smells like Somalia all over again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Goma residents pounced on supplies sent to Zaire for refugees dying of thirst and starvation. The fighting that has kept aid from reaching refugees, most of them Rwandans, has also cut the normal food supply. Page A14. (Associated Press) (pg. A1)
 
Map: "UPDATE: Guarding the Relief Teams"
 The United States may join Britain, France and other countries in a Canadian-led military operation to aid starving Rwandan refugees in eastern Zaire. About 1,000 American ground troops will secure the Goma airfield and a corridor from there to the Rwandan border, while several thousand more Americans will provide support in nearby countries.
 Map shows locations of refugee camps in the region. (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (95%); RWANDA (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); FRANCE (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; CANADA; ZAIRE; GOMA (ZAIRE); ; GOMA (ZAIRE); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (95%); RWANDA (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); FRANCE (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HUTU TRIBE; TUTSI TRIBE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES ; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



318 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Indian Officials Gather Evidence on Midair Collision

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: CHARKHI DADRI, India, Nov. 13

 BODY:
As scores of bereaved relatives and friends wandered through twin crash sites on the dusty Indian plain, struggling to absorb the tragedy, Indian officials today began reconstructing what caused the worst midair collision in aviation history.
Among the suspects in the collision Tuesday night, which killed all 349 people aboard a Saudi Arabian Airlines Boeing 747 and a Kazak airliner, are the air-traffic controllers at Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi, where the Kazak plane was headed and the Saudi plane had just left. 
 But Prime Minister H. D. Deve Gowda, who spent 20 minutes today walking grim faced through the charred wreckage of the Saudi plane, said that an inquiry ordered by the Government within hours of the crash would not be blunted by any cover-up of the kind detected by critics of some previous Indian air-accident inquiries.
"We will spare nobody," he said.
Kazak officials revised the number of people aboard the Kazak plane, reducing the death toll that was announced on Tuesday night by 2, to 349. The revised list also showed that three Americans, not two, were aboard the Saudi plane. At the State Department in Washington, offficials said that the names of the American victims were being withheld pending notification of their families.
The revised toll made the accident the fourth worst in aviation history, and left Indians, and all who fly into India's airports, with pressing questions about the causes of the collision and the role, if any, that was played by lapses on the part of India's air-traffic control system or the two flight crews.
A major step toward finding answers was taken this morning when recovery teams announced that they had found the flight data recorders, or so-called black boxes, from both planes, as well as the cockpit voice recorder from the Kazak aircraft. Indian aviation officials said the recoveries meant that they should be able to reconstruct everything about the flights of the two planes that could have caused the collision.
The country's top civil-aviation officials appeared to have gone at least part way to vindicating the air-traffic controllers by calling a news conference and making public a transcript of the last exchanges the controller had with the two pilots.
The transcript appeared to support a chronology given by Indian officials immediately after the crash, when they said that the controller had instructed the Saudi plane, climbing out of the airport on a flight to the Saudi cities of Dhahran and Jidda, to ascend to 14,000 feet and hold at that level, while instructing the Kazak aircraft, on its landing approach on a flight from the Kazak city of Chimkek, to descend to 15,000 feet and hold there.
Because landings and takeoffs at the New Delhi airport are made along the same flight corridor, the two planes were in effect heading toward each other on the same aerial highway, though supposedly at different altitudes.
But while the transcript showed the Saudi plane's pilot confirming that he had reached 14,000 feet and would remain there pending further instructions, and confirmed that the Kazak plane's pilot had reported reaching 15,000 feet on his descent, it did not show the Kazak pilot confirming that he would remain at 15,000 feet.
Indian and international aviation experts have listed other possible causes of the collision as the airspace restrictions around the New Delhi airport that require all civilian aircraft to fly along one corridor, and the airport's outdated radar equipment, which does not show the altitude and airspeed of aircraft on the controller's screen.
Indian officials have said that they are in the process of a $100 million upgrade of the radar systems at New Delhi and Bombay, but that the changes have run into technical problems.
As he toured the Saudi crash site, Mr. Deve Gowda seemed particularly affected by the scattered evidence of the passengers' role as breadwinners abroad. Many of those who died on the Saudi plane, including 215 Indians and 40 Nepalis, had jobs in Saudi Arabia. Although one of the bodies still lying in the wreckage when the Prime Minister arrived was that of an Indian doctor with his stethoscope still poking out of his charred jacket pocket, most of those on the plane were heading for jobs as drivers, cooks and housemaids.
"These were people going abroad for jobs," Mr. Deve Gowda said as he paused by a crater 30 feet deep and about 200 feet long that was carved out of a mustard field by the Saudi plane. Workers with face masks were poking through the smoldering debris, searching for the bodies of the 312 people aboard the plane.
In a cotton field about five miles away, beside the blackened fuselage of the Kazakstan Airlines Ilyushin-76, a similar lament was being offered for what Kazak officials, revising an earlier tally, said today were 37 passengers and crew members, almost all ethnic Russians.
A 43-year-old Russian woman who gave only her first name, Alla, wept as she spoke of her friends aboard the plane, who were headed for a week of buying in the bazaars of the Indian capital that has become a mainstay of the post-Soviet economies in the newly independent republics of Central Asia.
"It could have been me," said Alla, clutching her friend Tatyana, 42, as the two women stood gazing at torn suitcases stacked beside the mangled cockpit of the Kazak plane that had spilled out a sad jumble of underwear and toothpaste tubes and diaries recording past buying trips to Bangkok, Beijing and New Delhi. On Tuesday night, the two friends, along with 30 ethnic Russians who had bought jute bags full of sweaters and jeans and dresses for sale in the markets of Bishkek, their hometown in Kazakstan, had checked in for the Kazak plane's return flight at the New Delhi airport when they were told that the plane had crashed here about 50 miles west of the capital.
At about the same time, Raji Pk, a 33-year-old clerk in a New Delhi garment factory, was learning of the crash from the evening news bulletin on India's state television network. Only hours before, his wife, Sosamma Oommen, a 30-year-old nurse, had bade a weeping farewell to Mr. Pk and the couple's 2-year-old daughter and boarded the flight to Jidda. There, on a two-year contract at a Saudi Arabian hospital, she hoped to earn enough to allow the family to buy a house in their home state of Kerala, on India's southwest coast.
This morning, friends from the New Delhi Bible Church packed into a minibus with Mr. Pk and drove to the crash site, then to a makeshift morgue at a hospital in the regional center of Rohtak, where recovery crews had taken the bodies of about 250 of the crash victims. After an agonizing hour pulling back sheets from horribly burned and mangled corpses laid out on blocks of ice, Mr. Pk found his wife by recognizing fragments of her blouse. He collapsed into the arms of a friend.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the air collision this week in India referred incorrectly to the hometown of two women who had been waiting in New Delhi to board one of the two planes involved. The city, Bishkek, is in Kyrgyzstan, not Kazakstan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A hospital worker in Charkhi Dadri, India, stoking an incense fire in a makeshift morgue filled with victims of history's worst midair collision. (Associated Press)
 
Map of India 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); 

COMPANY: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; KAZAK AIRLINES SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES (58%); BOEING CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES; KAZAK AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI (INDIA) ; INDIA (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); AVIONICS (89%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (86%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: DEVE GOWDA, H D (PRIME MIN); BURNS, JOHN F INDIRA PRIYADARSHINI NEHRU GANDHI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996



319 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: FISCAL AMENDMENT WON'T BE BACKED BY ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
A day after President Clinton appeared to open the door to a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget, his Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, slammed it shut again today, declaring that the Administration would "actively oppose" the adoption of any such amendment.
In an interview, Mr. Rubin dismissed a possibility that Mr. Clinton held out on Tuesday: that the amendment could be written with an escape hatch that "gives the country what it needs to manage a recession." Mr. Rubin said any balanced-budget amendment would be "a dangerous thing to do," because "you can't protect against the unforeseen." 
 The Treasury Secretary's remarks had apparently been cleared by the White House, which later today began echoing him.
Mr. Clinton's comments on Tuesday had been widely read as an acknowledgment of the political reality that a balanced-budget amendment was likely to be approved in 1997 by a more conservative Senate, where the measure failed by only one vote last year.
But today the President's economic team, apparently fearful that those comments would prompt Democrats who had opposed the amendment to switch their votes, began walking back Mr. Clinton's remarks. Some of them suggested that his message had been garbled in the delivery.
Mr. Rubin said that after Mr. Clinton made his public comments, the President was asked by his chief economic advisers during a meeting at the White House whether he was still opposed to a balanced-budget amendment.
"He said, 'Absolutely,' " Mr. Rubin recalled. "The bottom line is that he is opposed to a balanced-budget amendment, and remains so."
The chief White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, who later on Tuesday told reporters inquiring about Mr. Clinton's position that "you won't pin me down on this," said today that Mr. Rubin's view was also the President's.
"The President and his economic team have not dropped their opposition to a balanced-budget amendment," Mr. McCurry said. "There is no difference of view there."
He said Mr. Clinton's earlier remarks had simply been an acknowledgment that "some portions of Congress want to go ahead with this." The President himself, Mr. McCurry said, "doesn't believe they can come up with a way that doesn't threaten the economy."
Economists who argue against the balanced-budget amendment maintain that it would hamstring Congress or the executive branch in times of economic downturn, since deficit spending has customarily been a way of spurring a laggard economy.
Mr. Clinton, though, has long found it politically uncomfortable to argue that he is for balancing the budget but against a constitutional stricture that would require such balance. He stepped around the issue several times during the recent election campaign, and his chief opponent, Bob Dole, never pressed the matter during the two Presidential debates.
The President actually has no formal role in the constitutional-amendment process. He cannot veto any amendment passed by Congress, and cannot reject its subsequent ratification by the states. All he can do is use his bully pulpit to denounce a proposed amendment as bad policy, and the reason Mr. Clinton's economic aides were upset is that he declined several opportunities on Tuesday to do so forcefully.
Responding then to a question at a bill-signing ceremony, the President talked about a balanced-budget amendment in terms that left unclear whether he was truly moving away from his own opposition to it or instead was just resigned to its eventual passage in a Senate where Republicans picked up two more seats, for a total of 55, in the elections last week.
"My problems with a constitutional amendment were always more a question of how to manage the larger economic problems of the country," he said. "The nation's budget is different from a state, and I just want to make sure that if we have one, it needs to be clear in terms of how -- and it needs to really give us the possibility of dealing with a recession.
"You don't want to wind up with a Congress some day in a recession raising taxes or throwing unemployed people off health care because they're trying to get to a balanced budget. Then you could actually wind up making the deficit worse."
At another point, Mr. Clinton said, "I don't believe we need it." But then he talked at length about creating an "escape hatch" clause, and added, "If the escape hatch is good, then we'll manage it the best way we can."
Today Mr. Rubin insisted that there was no such thing as a good escape hatch.
"The problem is that you are trying to protect against everything you can see, and against the unforeseen," the Secretary said. "And you can't protect against the unforeseen. It seems to me extremely unlikely you can draft something that will give you an effective escape hatch."
Mr. McCurry said today that this was also the President's view. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



320 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
A Radical Change

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

 BODY:
Anyone who thought the 1996 election was a victory for centrist policies should think again. It is quickly threatening to bring on the most radical change in the structure of the United States Government since 1789: the so-called balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
The idea of a balanced budget is venerated in this country as in no other. But enshrining it in the Constitution would be very different from talking about it in political speeches. I suspect that many advocates of the amendment do not really understand what its consequences would be. 
 The amendment does not actually require balanced budgets. It provides, rather, that except in time of war a decision to spend more than expected Federal revenue in any fiscal year must be approved by three-fifths of the whole membership of the House and Senate.
That would drastically alter the majoritarian elements of the republic designed by James Madison and the other Framers of the Constitution. Most bills before Congress require funding. So under the amendment, a minority -- one more than 40 percent of the members of either house -- could block action on nearly every piece of legislation.
But what if a deficit is forecast and Congress cannot agree on action to prevent it? Some members want to cut defense spending, some want to cut entitlements, some want to raise taxes, some want to let the budget be unbalanced -- and there are not enough votes for any course of action.
That scenario, a likely one, raises the possibility of action by other branches of government to do what the amendment commands and Congress has not accomplished: balance receipts and expenditures. The President, for example, might impound funds appropriated for this program or that, claiming that the amendment gives him power to override statutes forbidding impoundment.
The courts may get into the act, too. Assistant Attorney General Walter Dellinger, now the acting Solicitor General, testified last year that members of Congress and taxpayers might have standing to sue over the new budget process.
Robert H. Bork, the former judge, saw this prospect in a balanced budget amendment:
"The result . . . would likely be hundreds, if not thousands, of lawsuits around the country, many of them on inconsistent theories and providing inconsistent results. By the time the Supreme Court straightened the whole matter out, the budget in question would be at least four years out of date and lawsuits involving the next three fiscal years would be slowly climbing toward the Supreme Court."
Even if Congress overcame all the hurdles and approved a balanced budget, tax receipts might fall short of predictions. Presumably the amendment would then require both houses to go through the tormenting process again.
Congress, frustrated, might come to treat the amendment as merely hortatory -- like the provisions of some countries' constitutions that promise everyone adequate housing and jobs. But starting down that road would be a devastating blow to the principle that the guarantees in our Constitution are enforceable.
The substantive economic impact of a balanced budget amendment would be as dangerous as the procedural chaos it would cause. The notion that all debt is bad is, to put it mildly, out of date. The American economy, that great capitalist engine, is built on debt: consumer credit, mortgages, corporate debt. The Government, too, needs to borrow from time to time for wise purposes.
Of course Government borrowing can get out of control, as it did in the Reagan years. But we have a device to deal with that: politics. The reaction against huge deficits has been so strong that both parties are now pledged to move toward a balanced budget -- and are doing it. The country is better positioned to control the deficit today than it has been in decades.
If we have faith in reason, we must believe that more members of the House and Senate can be persuaded to oppose this flawed proposal. That is what made President Clinton's seeming abandonment of the fight so troubling. It is time to take a stand for the structure of government that over 200 years has made this country great.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); LAWYERS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); STANDING TO SUE (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



321 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Shoe Company, With 1,250 Jobs, Is Moving to White Plains

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Taking advantage of this city's glut of office space, Nine West Group Inc. is consolidating its Cincinnati and Stamford, Conn., operations and moving its headquarters here.
The move will bring 1,250 jobs to New York State, Gov. George E. Pataki said at a news conference here. The company, a leader in women's shoes, started at 9 West 57th Street in Manhattan and grew over the years into a publicly traded company with $1.3 billion in annual revenues. 
 "We've seen Swiss Re come to Westchester," Mr. Pataki said. "We've seen I.B.M. stay in Westchester. We've seen Oxford Health bring in 1,000 jobs to Westchester. But we're just extremely pleased that a company that was started in New York by New Yorkers will be coming back and growing and succeeding right here in Westchester County."
The 1,250 jobs cited by Mr. Pataki are actually Nine West's projection for 1998. Next year, the company expects to bring close to 1,000 jobs to Westchester, about 200 of which will come from Cincinnati, said Noel Hord, Nine West's president. None are manufacturing jobs, he said.
Nine West doubled in size last year when it acquired U.S. Shoe's footwear group. U.S. Shoe was based in Cincinnati, and Nine West in Stamford. The consolidated company is to occupy a glass-sheathed building on Westchester Avenue, which is to be vacated by Nynex. Nine West has signed a 25-year lease.
The company expects to begin refurbishing the 377,000-square-foot building in March and to start moving in employees in July.
Both Connecticut and New York courted Nine West. To woo the company, the Empire State Development Corporation offered it more than $1.6 million in grants. Also, the state will waive $1.2 million in sales taxes that Nine West would otherwise pay for goods and services it buys.
Governor Pataki said, "We are winning these fights, not all of them, but we are winning more than our fair share because we're in there competing and working hard every day to match incentives, lower taxes and lower worker's comp rates."
But regional economic experts and Mr. Hord said that what ultimately sold Nine West on New York was the availability of the Nynex building, which would allow the company to save money by not having to construct a new building in Fairfield County. "Both states in the last several months worked very aggressively to keep us in Connecticut and to attract us to New York," Mr. Hord said. "It came down to the difference between constructing a new building and signing a long-term lease."
Michael Siegel, executive director of the Edward S. Gordon Company, a real estate brokerage concern with offices in New York and Connecticut, said: "Nine West wanted to relocate to a space in excess of 300,000 square feet. There's is a scarcity of space of that size in lower Fairfield County."
About 24 percent of the office space in in Westchester County is vacant, according to the Rostenberg-Doren Company, a corporate real estate company.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (94%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (71%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NINE WEST GROUP INC NINE WEST GROUP INC (94%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (71%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); U S SHOE CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NINE WEST GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI (OHIO); STAMFORD (CONN); WHITE PLAINS (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS FOOTWEAR (92%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FOOTWEAR MFG (76%); SALES TAX (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) DAVID DAVIS (74%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



322 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: The Election Changes Little; Business Can Live With That

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
In the days since the election, business leaders have concluded that the results amount to nothing much -- and are quite pleased by the prospect.
Encouraged by what seems a friendlier White House but skeptical about the chances for sweeping changes, American business is focusing on a push for modest victories on Capitol Hill next year. 
 Although the Senate may be a bit more conservative because of the way the Republicans solidified their majority, the House is likely to move toward the center. And, since the Government was almost closed by the budget stalemate and the fervor over the Contract With America has deflated, lobbyists and corporate spokesmen see a mood that is unfriendly to grand solutions.
"We think this will be a Congress of bipartisan, incremental legislation," said Donald A. Danner, a vice president of the National Federation of Independent Business, the small-business powerhouse that played a big role in defeating President Clinton's ambitious health care initiative. Only joint effort by both parties can produce results, he said, citing the flurry of bills passed toward the end of the 1996 session. Cooperation probably still cannnot be mustered for such wholesale changes, he said.
The federation, in a post-election booklet, called on its 600,000 members to support a five-item agenda: making health care available and affordable to small businesses, cutting and simplifying taxes, easing regulation, balancing the budget and ending "legal nightmares."
Indeed, the business community is hearing some unusually welcome words, now that the Administration is pledged to balance the budget -- even going so far as to soften its opposition to doing so by constitutional amendment -- and has supported a cut in the capital gains tax for home sellers.
Noting the increased number of centrists in the next House, Barry K. Rogstad, president of the American Business Conference, observed, "I think this can be good for moving the ball."
R. Bruce Josten, senior vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which represents companies of all sizes, took a similar view, even as he declared that the chamber's first priority "has been and remains overwhelmingly" a balancing of the Federal budget and what the chamber regards as the necessary accompaniment, reform of entitlement programs like Social Security.
"Incrementalism is probably the order of the day," Mr. Josten said. A principal strategist in business's campaign to counter organized labor's stepped-up political efforts of this year, he specifically cited the issue of regulatory overhaul, which is of central concern to business. "The omnibus approach to that is probably not legislatively salable," he said.
Perhaps slightly more ambitious is Mr. Rogstad's group, the American Business Conference, which comprises rapidly growing medium-size companies. Mr. Rogstad described the national economic agenda as "almost a blank slate." He said he doubted that pledges of budget balance and studies of ways to overhaul Social Security and other entitlement programs would soon reach fruition. He contended, for example, that entitlement issues such as the privatization of Social Security were so intertwined with the tax system that attempts to overhaul either would quickly fail.
"The current wisdom is that the best thing we'll see is tinkering at the margin," Mr. Rogstad said. He said his own agenda involved a "focus on the core stuff," such as creating greater protection from product liability suits and expanding trade agreements to include Central and South America.
The biggest companies are especially interested in environmental and other regulation and in trade, as well as issues related to their own industry. The tobacco industry, for example, may go to Congress to fight new regulations against selling cigarettes to children, while the oil industry wants the Government to ease restrictions on where it can drill.
Business leaders seem of a single mind, however, in praising Mr. Clinton's appointment of Erskine B. Bowles to succeed Leon E. Panetta as White House chief of staff.
Among the most enthusiastic was Jack Faris, president of the National Federation of Independent Business, who issued a news release to say: "The President has selected a small-business owner, one who has personally signed the front of a paycheck and who knows what it takes to run a small business." In addition, Mr. Josten added that Mr. Panetta, a former member of Congress, had been a formidable opponent for Republicans there, and that his departure would be "a major loss" for White House strategists.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS; CONGRESS (US) NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS; CONGRESS (US) NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX REFORM (68%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



323 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Lower-priced co-ops sell again in once-troubled buildings in boroughs outside Manhattan.

BYLINE: By Rachelle Garbarine 

 BODY:
BELIEVING that the market for affordably priced cooperatives in New York City boroughs outside of Manhattan is beginning to improve, some developers who have taken over troubled buildings are selling apartments again.
Indicative of this willingness to return to the market are the activities of three separate development groups that have worked out the financial problems at six different buildings, with nearly 600 apartments, in Brooklyn and the Bronx. Over the next year they will put on the market some 150 residences -- studios to three-bedroom apartments -- under $100,000 and often with financing in place for buyers. 
 Sales of such co-ops are being nudged along by several factors, brokers said. The housing market in general and Manhattan's in particular are improving, they said, while rents are rising and mortgage interest rates are stable.
For the last two and a half years, large co-ops in neighborhoods nearer to Manhattan, like Park Slope in Brooklyn, have been selling well, said Christopher D. Thomas, vice president at the Brooklyn offices of William B. May, a Manhattan-based real estate firm. In the last six months, the activity has spread to smaller apartments and into neighborhoods farther away, he added.
Mr. Thomas said people would buy if the monthly cost to own was comparable to the cost of renting. "Prices may change from neighborhood to neighborhood, but the dynamics of the decision stay the same," he said.
Gerald S. Migdol, executive vice president of the GFI Management Services division of the GFI Capital Resources Group, a Manhattan-based real estate company, said that prices for low-end co-ops in boroughs outside of Manhattan had fallen by as much as than 50 percent since the market's downturn in 1990, but have now stabilized. Co-ops at the low end of the market sell on average for $25,000 for a studio to $75,000 for a three-bedroom apartment, Mr. Migdol said. His firm has sponsored or taken over sponsor positions at 25 co-ops with 2,000 apartments throughout the city.
The market is viable if apartments are realistically priced and share loans are offered to purchasers, he said.
The latter is especially important if the percentage of apartments sold in the building is fewer than what lending institutions now require. Frequently, lenders stipulate that 50 percent of a building's apartments be sold before they will grant such loans, and some banks prefer a high level of owner-occupancy.
Sales are under way at 3311 Shore Parkway, a 96-apartment co-op in Sheepshead Bay in Brooklyn. The building was converted in the late 1980's and sold 40 apartments before the market collapsed. Last year the JMJ Realty Company -- a Bronx-based real estate firm -- bought the building's underlying mortgage. And in a negotigated settlement with the co-op corporation, which was on the brink of foreclosure, it restructured the loan and took over the 56 unsold studios-to-two-bedroom apartments.
In the three months since sales started, 13 of the 17 vacant apartments, which were renovated at an average cost of $6,000, have been sold or are under contract to be sold for $23,000 to $45,000, said Joseph Yasgur, a principal at JMJ.
"We saw an opportunity that the building, once stabilized, could be a viable co-op," he said, adding that the 39 rented apartments would be put on the market as they become available.
Soon GFI will begin sales at 50 Lefferts Avenue, a 95-apartment co-op in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Sales halted in 1989 after 15 of the apartments, studios to two-bedroom residences, were sold.
GFI took over the 80 unsold apartments six months ago as part of a negotiated settlement with the co-op corporation. The settlement included buying the underlying mortgage and revising it, which kept the co-op out of foreclosure.
To start, the 15 vacant apartments will be renovated at an average cost of $4,000, and sold for $25,000 to $45,000; or rented for $650 to $750 a month with an option to buy at the end of the one-year lease, said Allen I. Gross, GFI's president. He said that in the next few months his company would also offer tenants leasing the 65 other unsold apartments -- 25 of the leases expire this summer -- a chance to buy at discounted prices. And because renters outnumber owners at the building, share loans will be offered to buyers, he said, adding that "the key is to keep the apartments affordable."
The company is planning the same program at 700 Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn, where 25 of the 66 apartments, with one and two bedrooms, will be on sale by this summer.
By early next year Pelham Realty Associates, based in Manhattan, plans to begin sales at four buildings, together totaling 305 one- to three-bedroom apartments on Kruger and Holland Avenues in the Pelham Parkway area of the Bronx. The company took control of the 240 unsold apartments one and a half years ago when it bought and refinanced the underlying mortgages on the four buildings, averting a foreclosure.
The 135 vacant, unsold, unregulated apartments have been renovated and leased over the last year for $650 to $1,000, said Leonard H. Krim, a principal of Pelham Realty and a Manhattan lawyer. The way to fully restore the building "is for us to sell our units," he said, adding that financing will be offered to buyers.
He said the apartments would be sold to tenants first and then to outsiders. Prices for the apartments, though not set, will be "considerably less" than the $56,000 to $80,000 they originally sold for, Mr. Krim said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; MORTGAGES; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



324 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia Foes Told to Make Peace in 2 Years or Lose Economic Aid

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 14

 BODY:
The United States and the European countries overseeing the still-fragile peace in Bosnia gave formal notice today to leaders of all three of the war-ravaged country's ethnic groups that economic aid would end two years from now at the latest if peace has not taken hold completely by then.
The three parties reached a new agreement today to carry out the requirements of the peace plan signed in Paris 11 months ago. The agreement drew up guidelines for strengthening democratic institutions, a market economy, and the rule of law over the next two years. 
 Fresh from the most serious military clash this year between Bosnian Serbs and Muslims who were trying to return to their former homes in northeast Bosnia, the country's top elected leaders pledge to allow refugees to return to their homes and carry out the rest of the peace agreement. But doing one thing on the ground while promising in the diplomatic salons of Europe to do something else entirely has been standard procedure in Bosnia since war broke out.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said that the United Nations Security Council could impose economic sanctions against Bosnia if it did not carry out the agreement.
International diplomatic leverage may also be growing weaker along with the outside military presence. Despite considerable diplomatic pressure from Mr. Christopher, for example, the three elected Bosnian leaders could not even come to agreement here on naming a Council of Ministers, though after their own election two months ago they said they would put a Government in place by Nov. 1.
The future of international involvement in Bosnia was on the table in Washington tonight when Mr. Clinton's top foreign-policy officials met to discuss options. Mr. Clinton is expected to announce his decision on American participation in a follow-on force on Friday morning, before he leaves for vacation.
The White House Press Secretary, Michael McCurry, said today that Mr. Clinton had made no decision, but "we've said all along that we would be looking at ways of preserving the gains in Bosnia."
The NATO Secretary General, Javier Solana, told a news conference in Washington today that he confidently expected Mr. Clinton to agree to provide 7,000 to 8,000 troops to a follow-on force of up to 30,000, which would include troops from France, Britain, Germany and Russia.
In Washington, the official consensus was growing around a two-phased plan for the new force, an Administration official said today. The first phase would put a total of 25,000 and 30,000 troops into Bosnia -- including possibly 8,000 Americans -- for another year to deter any new outbreak of fighting and to help insure freedom of movement among civilians, resettle refugees, back up the police and support elections.
After the much-delayed municipal elections, now expected by July, many of those troops could leave Bosnia. Some soldiers could return home; others could be stationed "over the horizon," outside Bosnia, as a rapid-reaction force should major fighting recur. European and American officials gathered here said that there was little likelihood that a new NATO peacekeeping force would have a mandate to go after those indicted by the war-crimes tribunal.
Past practice for Bosnian Serbs, and to some extent for Bosnian Croats, was simply to disregard obligations to cooperate with the tribunal and comply with its orders, as the peace accords specified. The tribunal has indicted 78 people so far, most of them Serbs.
"We're trying to building something which is sustainable," a senior American official said. "We've always argued that while dealing with war crimes and criminals is very important, that does not mean that major military actions to get one or two people will solve the problem -- it could just create new problems." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ETHNICITY (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); RELIGION (54%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R JAVIER SOLANA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



325 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: '95 Hondas Recalled For Air-Bag Defect

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 14

 BODY:
The American Honda Motor Company said today that it was recalling nearly half of the 1995 Accords sold in the United States because of complaints that air bags in some of the cars deployed unexpectedly.
The voluntary recall of 164,139 Accords came after an investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Car owners will be notified by mail and offered free replacements. 
 The safety agency had announced in March that it was investigating 17 complaints of dual air bags unexpectedly deploying in 1995 Accords because of the faulty control device.
No serious injuries have been reported, but the inflation of an air bag can bruise the hands, arms and face, or cause more serious injury if a driver or passenger is not seated properly.
Eight Accord owners said air bags deployed while the car was moving, even though they had not struck anything. One driver said his air bag inflated after he struck a parking lot sign while traveling at 5 miles an hour. Five drivers complained that the air bags deployed after a minor incident, like a flat tire or striking a small animal.
A Honda spokesman, Art Garner in Torrance, Calif., said Honda sold 341,384 of the 1995 Accords in the United States. The defective device was made by Denshi Gaiken, a Japanese supplier, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; AIR BAGS PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



326 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Move Higher On New Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities turned higher yesterday after three Government reports indicated continued subdued economic growth and little inflation. The reports appeared to validate the Federal Reserve's decision on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 12/32 yesterday, to 1013/32 , and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.42 percent, from 6.45 on Wednesday. 
 Traders said the market was aided by short-covering, in which investors who had sold borrowed securities, betting on a price drop, were forced to buy back bonds to cut their losses. These investors apparently expected that the reports would show signs of stronger growth or inflation, which alarms the bond market.
"Technicals are in place for a further rally," said Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst at Thomson Research of Boston. "And the immediate upside target for the bond yield is about 6.35 percent.
"I wouldn't be surprised if that move toward the target unfolds quickly by the end of the month," she said, adding that the long-term outlook for the market was strong, too.
In its reports, the Government said the Consumer Price Index rose three-tenths of a percent in October, while the core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy prices, was a smaller-than-expected two-tenths of a percent. And retail sales increased two-tenths of a percent last month, while the weekly number of first-time jobless claims dropped by 4,000 to a seasonally adjusted 328,000 last week.
Raymond A. Worseck, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, said the Consumer Price Index was in line with expectations, while the small increase in retail sales might have signaled little pickup after a third-quarter slowdown in economic growth. Market expectations were for a gain of four-tenths of a percent in retail sales and a rise of 5,000 in the jobless claims.
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said that unlike the Producer Price Index, which was reported on Wednesday and showed a big increase in energy prices, the consumer index conformed to market expectations in all respects.
"But market focus was centered more on the retail sales statistics, as retail spending is more of a current indicator and can provide clues as to future consumer price inflation," he said. In addition, the retail sales figure is considerably more volatile than the consumer index on a month-to-month basis, which results in a lower level of confidence in market forecasts and a greater probability of market surprises.
"Retail sales in October rose slightly less than expected, with modest upward revisions to both August and September," Mr. Fine said. Still, he added, the October sales figure was stronger than the third-quarter average, indicating a fourth-quarter lift in consumption patterns, though not big enough to reignite inflation fears.
In when-issued trading, the soon-to-be-auctioned two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.63 percent, while the five-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.93 percent, down four- and five-hundredths of a percentage point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from Aug. to Nov.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (53%); A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (53%); PRICES OF TREASURY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (79%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD J FINE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



327 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
It's Time For Redskins To Exit

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

 BODY:
SPORTS teams in America, and environs, insist on nicknames, for some reason. This has been going on for a hundred years. Most of the nicknames are so dumb they are beyond the pale of rational discussion. Why, for example, anyone would want to go around calling himself a Raptor, or a Net, or a Heat -- or, for that matter, a Blue Devil or a White Sock or, in the case of the Scottsdale (Ariz.) Community College athletes, an Artichoke -- ought to be fodder only for a psychiatrist's couch.
But some nicknames have taken on a different hue in modern times, and have come to offend people, and not just those who have a soft spot in their heart for a Raptor, et al. They are the nicknames associated with American Indians. 
 I received in the mail the other day a "Message to Miamians," from the president of Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. President James C. Garland wrote a letter to alumni, of which I am one, saying that the Miami Board of Trustees had agreed to seek a new nickname for its sports teams, that the name, the Redskins, was inappropriate for use by an institution of higher learning.
This has been years in coming, since many people associated with the university were dead set against change. Some said it was part of school tradition to retain that name, others said the university had more pressing issues to deal with. Others added that Redskins was a name that held in high esteem the Miami Indian tribe that once lived in the region, for which the university was named. The Miami tribe, which now lives in Oklahoma, sent a formal letter to the university seeking the change, and the university, to its credit, is honoring it.
But other schools with tribal references have already changed. Stanford, for one, went from the Indians to the Cardinal, and Marquette from the Warriors to the Golden Eagles.
Professional teams like the Washington Redskins, the Atlanta Braves, the Kansas City Chiefs and the Cleveland Indians have resisted name alterations, even though there have been numerous protests by various groups over the years. The political and economic clout of these tribes has been underwhelming, and the fans still come to the game in feathers and war paint, carrying rubber tomahawks, with their mindless chopping and chanting, much to the delight of the owners of these organizations.
A few years ago, St. John's University changed the nickname of its athletic teams from the Redmen to the Red Storm.
"Sure, some people hated the change, but some people hate any kind of change," said Lou Carnesecca, the former St. John's basketball coach. "But it wasn't our posture to offend anybody, even if it's one person. And I know we did.
"I once got a call from an athletic director of an Oregon high school which was on an Indian reservation. He told me, 'Coach, I love to see your team play, but it makes me very uncomfortable to see the mascots go around scalping people, and that kind of thing.'
"And I thought, 'What kind of message are we sending, and this being a university?' Few people seem to care anymore that the name has been changed."
Miami is now seeking suggestions for a new athletic nickname. Some of the several hundred entries by alumni that have been sent to Dr. Phillip R. Shriver, head of this search committee, have sought to maintain the "red" and the "skin" appellations. Thus the Red Bricks, the Red-Skinned Potatoes and, inevitably, the Sun Burns. Someone suggested Feather Heads, which seems unbookish, while Climbing Ivies seems unsportsy.
One that probably stands little chance of acceptance is Miami Vice.
Most school and professional nicknames reflect the animal kingdom, from Horned Frogs and Mighty Ducks to Tigers, Lions and even Anteaters (California-Irvine), but where are those college names with learning aspirations, such as the Intellectuals or the Literati or the Bibliophiles?
Nor do current nicknames reflect what these sporting groups are supposed to be all about. Badgers, Hoosiers, Avalanche. They make absolutely no sense. I considered sending this entry to Dr. Shriver: the Miami Nothings. But some feelings in Oxford might be hurt. So I've settled on a name simple but resonant, a name strong with purpose and studious vigor, a name unique in the annals of sports nicknames. I propose: the Miami Team.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (68%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (52%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (91%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (91%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (68%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; INDIANS, AMERICAN SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); BASKETBALL (79%); BASEBALL (79%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (71%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA PHILLIP R SHRIVER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



328 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Up Against Mark, But at Another Low vs. Pound

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar touched a new four-year low against the pound but rallied to end mostly higher yesterday after the head of Germany's central bank said he hoped that the United States currency would strengthen.
The remarks by the president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, were the second this week calling for a higher dollar. They were regarded as the clearest indication yet that economic policy makers in Germany were worried over the recent strength of the mark, which could threaten economic recovery there. 
 Mr. Tietmeyer, asked by foreign journalists in Bonn whether he would like a stronger dollar, replied, "I wouldn't be unhappy if it went a little further."
Late in New York yesterday, the dollar traded at 1.5089 marks, up from 1.5075 on Wednesday. It also finished higher against the Swiss franc, French franc and Italian lira. But the dollar ended lower against the Japanese yen at 111.22 yen, down from 111.79 yen.
The pound rose to $1.6625, from $1.6525 late Wednesday, the highest level since October 1992. Sterling surged for the second day after the British Government reported that the underlying inflation rate was 3.3 percent in October, well above expectations. The report reinforced a view that the Government of Prime Minister John Major would soon have to raise interest rates again to reduce inflationary pressure.
The dollar has strengthened against the mark for much of the year and has helped German exporters compete more effectively by lowering the cost of German-made goods sold abroad. But on Monday, the dollar fell below 1.50 marks for the first time in more than a month.
It weakened against the yen on a report in The Journal of Commerce that C. Fred Bergsten, an influential economist and former Treasury Department official known for advocating a weaker dollar, might be tapped by President Clinton as the new Commerce Secretary or United States trade representative.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those late Wednesday, included 1.2754 Swiss francs, up from 1.2711; 5.0995 French francs, up from 5.0930, and 1,516.50 Italian lire, up from 1,515.00. The Canadian dollar eased to 74.84 cents, from 74.99 cents on Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (54%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BONN, GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); INTEREST RATES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



329 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: Making Good From Alaska's Native Riches;
Indigenous People Are Creating A Far-Reaching Capital Base

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

DATELINE: NOME, Alaska

 BODY:
One day before he was scheduled to fly 3,000 miles from Washington to close a deal with a native Alaskan company called the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, Andrew Kho, a banker, was told to hold off his trip. Jacob Adams, Arctic Slope's boss, was out whaling in the icy seas off Alaska's northern coast.
"Jake had forgotten his cellular phone and couldn't be reached," said Mr. Kho, a vice president with the National Cooperative Bank. "This turned out to be a pretty comical event. I would call every couple of days, and the folks at Arctic Slope would respond that Jake was still out whaling." It would be three weeks before he finally flew to Portland, Ore., to approve a $15 million loan for Arctic Slope to buy a maker of plastics parts for high-tech companies. 
 The episode did more than just expose a cultural divide between the button-down American banking establishment and the rough-and-tumble Alaskan frontier. It also highlighted a quandary that Alaska's 87,000 natives have been wrestling with for 25 years: How does a geographically isolated group, with a heritage of living off the land and sea, figure out the smartest way to invest a multibillion-dollar windfall?
In 1971, the Federal Government ceded $962 million in cash and 44 million acres of Alaskan land, including mineral and timber rights, to the state's native inhabitants to help integrate them into the modern economy. The spoils were spread around 12 regional corporations like Arctic Slope and 220 much smaller village companies, which ever since have paid out a portion of their earnings as annual dividends to their stockholders.
The money has been a godsend for some natives in small villages, who are as likely as not to be in shacks without plumbing. But for the village leaders in charge of the companies, managing the wealth has been an unending ordeal. They have had to learn the ins and outs of modern investing, mastering concepts like poison pills and derivatives. They have had to coax reluctant boards into taking investment risks. And they have had to weigh their responsibility to make their portfolios grow against the need to spend much of their profits on social welfare and against the clamor of their constituents for more cash.
Now, though, their efforts finally seem to be paying off. While they have made missteps, the native corporations are diversifying their portfolios as never before. Many are moving aggressively to profit from the stock market boom. Some are buying major stakes in American corporations, or even starting their own ventures in the Lower 48 states.
The investment record of the Sitnasuak Native Corporation, which represents the 2,400 native Alaskan residents of this Bering Sea hamlet, is a striking example of the progress. You cannot travel from one end to the other of Front Street, Nome's main thoroughfare, without putting a nickel in its coffers. The Sitnasuaks (pronounced SIT-nah-socks) control virtually all the prime businesses, from the supermarket and the Napa auto parts store to the heating and rental-car companies, and own seven apartment buildings.
But like the bosses of more conventional companies, Robbie Fagerstrom, the company's chief executive, is under pressure to increase the return on his shareholders' assets. Mr. Fagerstrom avoided trouble by leading his balky directors into the stock market, amassing a $13 million stock and bond portfolio that last year generated 20 percent of the company's operating profit.
"We wanted part of our assets to bring in a steady income regardless of what was happening with our businesses here," said the 49-year-old Mr. Fagerstrom, who grew up in Nome and whose training for the chief executive's post included running his own janitorial business. Now, he says, he wants to move from passive ownership of stocks to active control of businesses in the Lower 48. "If we could get into building construction or rental management, it would make us less dependent on our local economy," he said.
Yet, the Sitnasuaks would have missed out on the current bull market had it not been for Mr. Fagerstrom's determination to beat down his directors' resistance to opening a stock portfolio. Because they complained they could not fathom Wall Street lingo, he talked them into taking a course on reading financial reports. Then he waited three years as analysts from the Dean Witter Reynolds Anchorage office molded their class lectures into the right mix of the Harvard Business School and Field & Stream magazine.
"You have to put it in terms they can understand," Keith Rivera, senior vice president with Dean Witter Reynolds in Anchorage, said of his clients. "For example, if they were to go out and experience bad storms while fishing, they wouldn't always turn around and go back. They stick it out."
Today, the Sitnasuaks' portfolio consists mostly of brand names, with AT&T, Procter & Gamble, Eastman Kodak and Hewlett Packard topping the list. Their directors, who remain very conservative, not only continue to take investment classes, they alsofeel confident enough to help Mr. Rivera with an occasional stock suggestion. Through the end of September, their stock picks were up 21.8 percent for the year.
"Over the next few years, we really hope to increase the amount of money we have in the market," Mr. Fagerstrom said. "It's crucial that it generate a steady income for us."
Other native Alaskan companies are also spreading their investments "Outside" -- local lingo for the 48 contiguous states. Among them are these examples:
*Cook Inlet Region Inc., based on Alaska's southern central coast, recently formed a joint venture with BellSouth of Atlanta to peddle cellular phones and pagers in the Carolinas. CIRI also acquired and later sold majority positions in network television affiliates in Hartford and Nashville, and it plans to buy several Southwestern resort properties and a manufacturing company in Washington later this year. More than half of the company's $56.65 million in operating earnings last year came from its broadcasting and communications holdings in the Lower 48. By contrast, it earned just $2.55 million, after distributions, from oil and gas production and mining.
*Sealaska, a timber-rich native corporation in Alaska's southeastern tip, plans to buy three manufacturing companies in the Lower 48 this year to position itself as a parts supplier to I.B.M. and Motorola Inc. It also has $100 million in cash earmarked for additional acquisitions.
*The Nana Regional Corporation, whose shareholders are primarily whale and seal hunters along the north Bering Sea, signed up with Marriott International Inc. last year to provide housekeeping and food services to Marriott hotels in Alaska and, potentially, in other states. The contract yielded $951,000 in profits last year, almost half the company's total. "The partnership is generating a lot of cash," Shelby Stassy, Nana Regional's vice president for finance, said.
Alaska's native corporations are using several strategies in their heady migration south. The largest hire investment firms to seek out potential acquisitions. CIRI has five full-time executives who only peruse listings of resort properties for sale. Leo Barlow, the chief executive of Sealaska, recently began surfing the Internet for possible deals. But the most common way has been to set up a minority contracting company eligible for jobs set aside by the Government for economically disadvantaged ethnic groups.
Most of the contracts involve grueling work, from sweeping out military bases to refueling jet fighters, but the pay is good. Chugach Alaska, a regional corporation near Prince William Sound, went bankrupt in 1991 but bounded back by landing $300 million in minority contracts with the Army. "It's been absolutely amazing how we were able to turn ourselves around," Michael Brown, Chugach Alaska's chief executive, said. "The key is that we diversified out of Alaska to stretch from Washington to Honolulu."
To be sure, some investments have misfired. The Bristol Bay Native Corporation, based along Alaska's southwestern coast, snapped up a 10 percent share in the United Bank of Alaska in the late 1970's. But hammered by bad real estate loans, the bank collapsed in 1986, leaving Bristol Bay with a $2 million loss.
And many companies continue to be plagued by the inexperience of their managers, many of whom have never worked in companies with more than 30 employees. When the Aleut and Nana corporations started a minority contracting subsidiary last year in Charlotte, N.C., for example, they could not find any of their colleagues to accept a top management position at the new venture. The job remains unfilled.
And the Aleut Corporation, hobbled by its board's timidity, allocated only half of its $3.7 million portfolio last year to stocks, with the rest tied up in Treasury and municipal bonds. The portfolio eked out an anemic 7.8 percent gain for the fiscal year ended March, compared with 29 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The Aleuts have since raised their stock holdings in hopes of notching a higher return.
"At a native corporation, any sort of decision -- including investing -- requires an awful lot of hand holding," said Dean Parisian, president of Native American Advisors Inc., a money-management firm in Alpharetta, Ga., which advises Indians and Alaska natives. "Very few of them have college degrees. Most don't know the difference between a preferred stock and livestock," neither of which figures much in life in the icy north, he adds. "That takes some time to overcome."
Native corporations also face pressure from shareholders to deliver quick cash hits rather than long-term growth. When CIRI's lines of businesses performed exceptionally well last year, shareholders were quick to ask for a greater dividend. CIRI obliged, shelling out $63 million. Stockholders who owned 100 shares, the typical amount, received $10,112.
Further draining profits, companies spend huge amounts on social programs like scholarships and alcohol rehabilitation. Even in bad years, many native Alaskans demand their dividend checks. Especially for those who live in remote villages and get most of their food from hunting and fishing, the money can make the difference between near squalor and reasonable comfort.
"We can live without the dividends," said Percy Nayokpuk, who sells ivory necklaces to tourists in the coastal village of Shishmaref, near the Arctic Circle. "But that extra money makes a tremendous difference in what you can do to improve your house or buy clothes for your children."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robbie Fagerstrom, chief executive of the Sitnasuak Native Corporation, wants to move his Nome-based company from passive ownership of stocks to active control of businesses in the Lower 48. (Rob Stapleton for The New York Times); "STEPPING OUTSIDE: NATIVE ALASKAN INVESTMENTS IN THE LOWER 48" -- Real estate holdings of the Cook Inlet Region Inc. include the Spring Park Apartments, a 300-unit complex in Albuquerue, N.M. (Cook Inlet Region, Inc.); In 1995, Arctic Slope bought the Puget Plastics Corporation of Portland, Ore., which makes plastic products for Hewlett-Packard and Apple Computer. (Arctic Slope Regional Corporation)
 
Graph/Map: "Alaska's Native Regional Corporations"
Twenty-five years after the state's 12 regional corporations were created to draw Alaskan natives into the modern economy, they are becoming savvy investors. Graph shows total assets for selected Alaskan Native regional corporations. Map of Alaska.
 
Drawings: Illustrations are logos of some of the corporations.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); BERING SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: ARCTIC SLOPE REGIONAL CORP (94%); NATIONAL COOPERATIVE BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); BERING SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); ESKIMOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); DIVIDENDS (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



330 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
The Russians Are Coming, to Big Board Trading

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
A piece of the new Russia goes on sale today on the New York Stock Exchange. Russia's leading cellular telephone company, Vimpel-Communications A.O., is set for a roughly $90 million initial public offering as the first Russian company to be listed on the Big Board. When trading begins, investors will be able to buy part of a young company run by former Soviet military scientists who, according to the prospectus, have been making money hand over cellular handset.
Vimpelcom, as the company is known, is also a case study of leveraging political connections into cash in the Wild West business atmosphere of today's Russia. 
 "It's a very strong company," said Alexander Kabanovsky, an analyst at Pyramid Research in Cambridge, Mass., which tracks emerging wireless-telephone markets. "They are one of the military companies that has done a very good job of retooling itself for the new market economy."
Underwritten by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and RC Securities, the Vimpelcom offering involves 5.24 million American depository receipts that represent 3.93 million shares of common stock, or 0.75 share each. That amounts to about 20 percent of Vimpelcom common stock and would value the entire company at roughly $450 million.
That may be a puny figure by the standards of next week's Deutsche Telekom offering, which is expected to raise about $12 billion. But Vimpelcom reports profit margins on a scale that a company of any size might be happy with.
Last year the company posted a profit of $27.6 million, or $1.58 a share, on revenue of $100.9 million, up from 1994 profit of $9.5 million, or 58 cents a share, on revenue of $28 million. For the first six months, it reported $18.8 million in net income on revenue of $84.4 million.
"On the very short term, I think investors will be interested in the stock," Dirk M. Bout, a European telecommunications analyst for Northern Business Information in London, said of the Vimpelcom A.D.R.'s. "After that the market will realize it's dealing with a very high-risk stock."
Vimpelcom has won 59 percent market share from its two competitors in Moscow, the locus for most of its business. Vimplecom's 45,000 Moscow customers, mostly professionals and high rollers frustrated by Russia's antiquated land-line telecommunications networks, spend an average of $374 a month on cellular service -- nearly seven times the average monthly cellular bill in the United States.
But if Vimpelcom sounds like a veritable ruble machine, consider that the same inside connections that helped Vimpelcom assume its market dominance could someday prove a liability.
"We're telling our clients that this is a deal where there is a tremendous amount of risk," said Linda Killian, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, a research firm on initial public offerings in Greenwich, Conn. "If these people fall out of favor, or if there's a new government that is less market-oriented, that would negatively affect a lot of business operations."
Vimpelcom will not only be the first Russian company to trade on the Big Board; it will also be a company that trades only in the United States. There are no plans to list the shares in Moscow. (Gazprom and Lukoil, two big Russian energy companies, have American depository receipts, but those do not trade on any American exchanges.)
Vimpelcom was founded in 1992 as a subsidiary of the Vimpel Corporation, a military contractor. Its president and chief executive, Dmitri B. Zimin, and several other senior executives were until a few years ago officials at a Vimpel-controlled research institute that developed advanced radio systems and missile defenses for the old Soviet Union.
In late 1992 and early 1993, one Vimpelcom director, Konstantin S. Kuzovoy, served simultaneously as Vimpelcom's executive vice president and head of military conversion programs at Vimpel. Other directors include a former Russian prime minister, Yegor T. Gaidar, and Oleg G. Belov, the general director of Rostelekom, Russia's government-controlled long-distance giant.
Given such connections, few were surprised when Vimpelcom ended up with almost twice as much cellular-network radio spectrum as each of its competitors.
"The people running that company have very close connections to the Russian establishment," said Frank Miller, chairman of Moscow-based BSD International, which owns four research-and-development companies in Russia. "That, in the long run, gives them an advantage over people who don't."
And perhaps in the short run, as well. After the generous cellular license was issued to a joint venture of Vimpelcom and the Government-owned Moscow-region telephone authority, in 1993, Vimpelcom bought all but 5 percent of the venture -- and control of the license -- for the modest sum of $36,000.
To complement its conventional cellular network, Vimpelcom is building an alternative wireless network for personal communications services, or P.C.S. -- technology similar to the new systems going into operation in this country. Last month, Vimplecom acquired the P.C.S. licensee, KB Impuls, which received its license, free, from the Russian communications ministry in mid-1995.
It is difficult to escape the impression that Vimpelcom has profited greatly from its close association with Russian officialdom. But what are the officials getting in return?
Immediately following the initial public offering, Vimpelcom is obligated to issue an additional 2.26 million shares of preferred stock to "entities controlled by Dr. Zimin," according to the preliminary prospectus. This will allow the Vimpelcom chief executive to effectively control almost 59 percent of Vimpelcom's voting stock.
The prospectus only parenthetically discloses that both Vimpel, the military contractor, and Sistema, a holding company widely believed to have ties to the Moscow government, are Vimpelcom shareholders. The prospectus leaves the current ownership of about 10 percent of Vimpelcom unaccounted for.
"Who really owns what there is not so easy to figure out," Mr. Miller said. "Legal form is less important that personal relationships."
Which makes the company's ticker symbol particularly apt: VIP.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VIP (NYSE) (96%); IT (NYSE) (56%); DTE (FRA) (54%); DTE (BIT) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: VIMPEL-COMMUNICATIONS AO VIMPELCOM LTD (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); GARTNER INC (56%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (54%); BIG BOARD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIMPEL-COMMUNICATIONS AO BIG BOARD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CASE STUDIES (76%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MARKET SHARE (71%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



331 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Set Records, With Dow Over 6,300

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose to records yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average past 6,300, as inflation and retail sales reports bolstered investors' perception of a low-inflation economy. Computer shares led the advance.
"The inflation picture looks good, and there is a feeling the economy is in reasonable shape," said Dirk van Dijk, chief equity strategist at C. H. Dean & Associates. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.76 points, to 6,313.00, led by Philip Morris Companies, I.B.M. and Allied Signal Inc. It was the Dow's seventh consecutive record high and first close above 6,300. The index closed above 6,200 and 6,100 for the first time last week.
Stocks benefited from a drop in bond yields to eight-month lows after a smaller-than-expected increase of two-tenths of 1 percent in October retail sales cast doubt that the holidays would bring a rebound in the economy. The report, together with others showing tame inflation, signaled to investors that the Federal Reserve was no longer under pressure to raise interest rates to keep the economy from overheating.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 4.75, to 735.88, its 34th record of the year. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 9.64, to a record 1,270.36, led by the Microsoft Corporation and the Oracle Corporation.
"The fundamentals are still in place, and this morning's reports reinforced the slow growth picture that the market likes," said John Niedenberger, money manager at Advanced Investment Management, with $3.5 billion in assets.
Computer-related shares led the rally amid optimism that earnings would be better than expected.
I.B.M. gained 2 1/8, to 136 7/8; the Microsoft Corporation surged 4 5/8, to 149 5/8; Advanced Micro Devices Inc. jumped 3 1/8, to 24 3/4, and Oracle jumped 1 7/8, to 47 3/8. The Digital Equipment Corporation rose 2 1/8, to 33 3/8, after its chairman said he believed the company could exceed analysts' earnings estimates for the fiscal year ending in June.
Bank shares rallied, spurred by bond yields, which fell after the economic reports. Bank profits are closely tied to interest rates as lower rates mean wider profit margins.
Citicorp rose 2 1/8, to an all-time high of 104 1/8; BankAmerica Corporation rose 2 3/4, to 96; Chase Manhattan Corporation gained 2 to 88 3/4, and First Chicago NBD Corporation rose 1 1/4, to 55 1/8. Shares and options of GTE Corporation, the biggest local phone company in the United States, soared amid speculation that the company could announce a merger or alliance in coming days. Traders said AT&T Corporation could be a possible partner or buyer.
GTE shares rose 1, to 43 3/4, in trading of 1.69 million shares, beating its three-month average daily volume of 1.47 million.
Lands' End Inc. shares rose 2 1/4, to 24 7/8, after the retailer said third-quarter earnings rose to 19 cents a share from 5 cents a year earlier. Analysts expected it to earn 10 cents.
Du Pont Company fell 61/64 to 92, after saying it would invest $750 million in its nylon business while eliminating 15 percent of the unit's 19,000 jobs. Nokia Oy led an advance in cellular phone shares. The Finnish phone maker's American depository receipts soared 7 1/4, to 58 1/4, after the company said third-quarter pretax profit rose 14 percent, its first quarterly rise this year, as it recovered from cost and inventory problems. Motorola Inc., gained 2 5/8, to 54 1/2, while A.D.R.'s of Swedish rival LM Ericsson rose 1 7/8, to 31 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (81%); BAC (LSE) (81%); 8648 (TSE) (81%); T (NYSE) (81%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); MO (NYSE) (71%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (67%); AMD (NYSE) (64%); AMD (FRA) (64%); HPQ (NYSE) (63%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (71%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); ORACLE CORP (82%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (81%); AT&T INC (81%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (71%); MICROSOFT CORP (67%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (64%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); C H DEAN & ASSOCIATES INC (57%); ADVANCED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MERGERS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



332 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Details Plan for Fiscal Windfall

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani formally presented a plan yesterday for using an unexpected $450 million windfall in tax revenues, drawing praise from some independent budget analysts and attacks from his Democratic rivals, who asserted that new spending would not make up for his earlier cuts.
After nearly three years of unrelentingly gloomy news about the city's finances, Mr. Giuliani for the first time benefited from a modest upturn in the local economy as he issued adjustments to the $33 billion budget for the fiscal year that began on July 1. 
 Most of the new tax revenues result from surging earnings on Wall Street. They have bolstered the city's growth rate, though it still is not as strong as that of the nation.
With the mayoral election a year away, Mr. Giuliani moved quickly to use some of that money to increase spending for law enforcement and education, areas that are expected to be hotly debated in the campaign.
Mr. Giuliani's aides maintained that the projected new tax revenues were evidence that his fiscal agenda was spurring the economy.
"The Giuliani administration's policies are working," Randy M. Mastro, Deputy Mayor for Operations, said at a news conference.
But the plan they released yesterday was not all upbeat: it also contained $180 million in new cuts and demonstrated that the city will still face large projected budget gaps in the next three years.
And buried in the lengthy budget proposal were some fiscal maneuvers that will put new stresses on the budgets of three agencies over the next few years: the Health and Hospitals Corporation, the Housing Authority and the City University.
Detailing how the Mayor would allocate the $450 million in projected new revenues, aides said he would spend $143 million for overtime in the Police and Correction Departments that results from a continuing crackdown on drug dealing in Brooklyn and Manhattan. Those programs have led to so many arrests that the population of the city's jails has swelled by more than 2,000 people, to about 21,000, officials said.
The Mayor will also allocate an additional $70 million for new textbooks for the public schools, an initiative he has often cited in recent days to parry criticism from Democratic opponents that he has cut too much in projected spending from the Board of Education's budget.
Mr. Mastro pointedly noted that the administration plans to raise the city's recycling budget by $6 million, with the goal of cutting the amount of garbage carted to Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, to insure that the city can close it. That is an important issue in a borough that strongly supported Mr. Giuliani in 1993.
In his original budget that the City Council approved in June, the Mayor reduced money for recycling by more than $25 million, scaling back pickups of recycling materials in many neighborhoods from once a week to once every two weeks.
The Mayor's aides said the extra $6 million would not be enough to resume the weekly pickup schedule. They maintained that the amount of recycling hauled away by the Sanitation Department had not dropped on the reduced schedule.
After spending $270 million, the administration will use the rest of the $450 million to fill holes that have appeared in the budget. In the original plan, the Mayor made a number of risky fiscal assumptions, many of them involving revenue sources that were in doubt even when the budget was adopted last spring. In his new plan, the Mayor acknowledges that the money will not materialize this year.
The extra $450 million in projected revenues was disclosed in a budget adjustment that the administration is required to do every autumn. When the budget is approved in June, officials estimate how much they believe the city will earn in revenues for the year.
One of the largest cuts disclosed yesterday will hit the Health and Hospitals Corporation, the quasi-independent agency that runs the public hospital system. In 1997 and 1998, the agency's $3.2 billion budget will be cut by more than $150 million, which is almost four times as large as the $38 million cut the agency had been told to expect in July.
The Mayor's proposal also shifts some labor costs over the next four years from the city budget to that of the Health and Hospitals Corporation, Housing Authority and City University, which have their own budgets.
Fiscal monitors said the Mayor was right to not spend all of the $450 million. "The Mayor acted very prudently in his plans for the increased revenues," said Douglas A. Criscitello, director of the city's Independent Budget Office.
Democrats who are expected to run for Mayor had a different view of the Mayor's budget changes.
"I'm not surprised that he found new revenue," said Councilman Sal F. Albanese of Brooklyn. "It's a typical re-election ploy that mayors squirrel money away so they can improve services in an election year."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Adjusting the Budget: Fall Changes"
Each autumn, the Mayor must adjust the city's budget to account for changes in spending and revenues since the fiscal year began on July 1. . Following are the autumn adjustments in revenues for the last seven budget years.
 
 1991: Reduced revenue forecast by $134 million.
 1992: Reduced revenue forecast by $50 million.
 1993: Increased revenue forecast by $4 million.
 1994: Increased revenue forecast by $21 million.
 1995: Reduced revenue forecast by $192 million.
 1996: Increased revenue forecast by $2 million.
 1997: Increased revenue forecast by $450 million.
(Source: City Comptroller's office)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; FRESH KILLS (NYC); ; FRESH KILLS (NYC); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CORRECTION DEPARTMENT (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORRECTION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; FRESH KILLS (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEXTBOOKS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL ; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; LANDFILL BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); TEXTBOOKS (88%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); DRIVER EDUCATION (68%); PRISONS (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); LANDFILLS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (62%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MASTRO, RANDY M RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



333 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Messinger Ads Criticize Store Plan and Mayor

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
As the City Council prepares to hold hearings next week on a zoning plan for suburban-style superstores, Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, plans to run a series of radio commercials this weekend that harshly criticizes the effort and its most prominent advocate, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
The Mayor's plan would allow the superstores in manufacturing areas throughout the city, prompting fear in many neighborhoods that the stores would sap business from local merchants. 
 And though Ms. Messinger's 60-second commercials tap into that opposition, they also represent a spirited response to recent indications that the Mayor is preparing his re-election campaign. Ms. Messinger has said that she intends to run for Mayor next year.
"Apparently, Rudy Giuliani doesn't care what you think," Ms. Messinger says in one ad.
"He's pushing hard for his plan to let bureaucrats run roughshod over your neighborhood. If he gets his way, you won't have a single thing to say about it."
Ms. Messinger will pay for the $7,400 in ads out of her Borough President's account, according to Leland T. Jones, her senior adviser. "The Borough President is merely exercising her charter responsibilities over planning issues," he said.
Ms. Messinger has said that she believes the city needs more megastores but that the Mayor's plan does not allow enough community input into where the stores would go. Calling the hearings "our chance to stand up for our neighborhoods," Ms. Messinger says in the commercial, "Mayor Giuliani may not care what you want for your neighborhood, but if you make your voice heard, the Council will."
The hearings are scheduled for 9:30 A.M. Monday and Tuesday in the City Council chambers.
Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, called the ads dishonest and irresponsible.
"I can only assume that this is Ruth pursuing some political agenda that has nothing to do with sound land-use policy and has nothing to do with the facts," Mr. Rose said. "This kind of demagoguery is not in the best interest of the city."
The proposal would allow up to 57 warehouse-style stores to be built in the city's manufacturing zones without public hearings or the soliciting of neighborhood views.
The administration has said that the proposal would correct obsolete rules that permit some large stores while prohibiting others.
"This proposal protects communities while also allowing for growth in the city's economy," Mr. Rose said.
A divided City Planning Commission approved the plan last month after 21 community boards and all five borough boards recommended a no vote.
Council officials have said for some time that the proposal would face heavy opposition from Council members who have been lobbied by local business owners who fear competition from megastores and by neighborhood leaders who dread the traffic that the stores would bring.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (92%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (92%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING; RADIO; POLITICAL ADVERTISING CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); MAYORS (92%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



334 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: College Idealism Was Fertile Soil for Fringe Group

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass., Nov. 14

 BODY:
Jennifer Kling left Williams College here to join the National Labor Federation in Brooklyn with dreams of organizing the poor to create a more just world.
Instead, Ms. Kling found herself trapped in a cramped, tense apartment building, unable to walk outside. Every second was charted. During the day, she filed papers, wrote articles and worked a phone bank, selling advertisements in the organization's publications. In the evenings, she was required to attend political lectures that would often go until 4:30 A.M., when she was finally allowed to collapse into sleep in a small room with five other women. 
 Six hours later, at 10:30, the wake-up call would come over the loudspeaker, and Ms. Kling and about 50 other members of the group, which has been called a cult, would start the cycle all over again.
"They didn't encourage idle chatter," she said. "Time was precious. Every minute was pre-scheduled. They kept you so busy that you didn't have time to think about leaving."
It took a terrified Ms. Kling weeks to build up the courage to sneak out of the building one morning last year and take a bus home to her family in Missouri.
This was the odd world of a fringe group that had remained relatively unknown and hidden until Monday night, when the police entered their Brooklyn headquarters, a cluster of buildings that group members called "the cave," and discovered a small arsenal of guns and explosives.
The group, which at different times called itself the National Labor Federation and the Provisional Communist Party, was established by Eugenio Perente-Ramos, who billed himself as a radical labor organizer, though the police and experts on cults have called him a cult leader. Experts familiar with the group say Mr. Perente-Ramos, who died last year, had a following of several hundred in the Brooklyn complex and around the nation in rigidly organized satellite groups, known in his jargon as "entities."
While the group's stated aim was to mobilize the poorest workers to challenge the fundamental economic system, it appears to have achieved little in that arena. What has perhaps drawn the greatest attention to the group is its recruiting efforts among a very different target audience: idealistic college students.
Ms. Kling, now 21, was one of many Williams College students who were approached by a front group, Western Massachusetts Labor Action, that had strong ties to the Brooklyn office. The group has recruited at other schools in Massachusetts and Vermont, but its efforts have come under particular scrutiny at this elite private school of 2,000 students in this small Berkshires town.
For about 20 years, the local group, based nearby in Pittsfield, relied on volunteers from Williams. Although only three students, including Ms. Kling, joined the federation as full-time volunteers, a steady stream of Williams students helped canvass surrounding towns for new members, chopped firewood for the poor and attended meetings, among other tasks.
Indeed, Western Massachusetts Labor Action became almost an institution on campus and enjoyed a reputation as a sort of Salvation Army with a political edge, a place where socially conscious students could go to work with the poor. Its connection to Mr. Perente-Ramos was not readily apparent, and the local group's lead organizer was invited to economics and political science classes to lecture on the region's social conditions.
When the school held its annual community volunteer fair, Western Massachusetts Labor Action had a table there. One former student, Michelle Kang, noted that a class that involved doing community service included the group as one of the ways to meet the requirement.
"I remember getting phone calls all the time from them, even in my senior year, trying to get me to help," said Ms. Kang, who graduated two years ago. She got on the group's phone list after taking the community service class as a sophomore.
Yet what the group was doing with this help is unclear.
Kurt P. Tauber, a retired political science professor who sponsored the group on campus and helped it raise money, said its organizing work had been a disappointment to him. He said the group was obsessed with forms and bureaucratic detail -- with precise instructions about where to put pencils and erasers.
While Dr. Tauber described the group as having a muddled, almost nonexistent political ideology, he noted that its bible was an organizing handbook that gave precise instructions on how to do everything from knock on a door to set up a desk. Dr. Tauber, who met Mr. Perente-Ramos in Brooklyn 13 years ago, said he was not impressed by him and did not like how he barked orders at people.
Yet Dr. Tauber, like others at Williams, saw the goals of the organization as admirable and continued to support it. And he admired the dedication of the unpaid organizers, who worked seven days a week, had no homes of their own and appeared to survive on doughnuts and coffee.
The group's standing, however, plummeted last year when Ms. Kling's experience became known and an expose in the campus newspaper, The Williams Record, publicized the local group's connections to the Brooklyn office, suggesting it was more cult than political group.
Since then, the college has moved to discourage the group from coming onto campus and tried to educate faculty members and students about its questionable background. In the last few months, the group's lead organizer has left, and its presence on campus has diminished.
On campus Wednesday night, a random survey of a dozen people revealed that most had not even heard of the group. Those who were familiar with it regarded it as something of a joke.
"They were a pretty weird bunch," said Yamelin Castillo, who graduated in June and is working here. "No one took them seriously."
The group continues to work from its storefront office in Pittsfield, occasionally distributing leaflets here. A man who answered the group's office phone today denied any connection with the Brooklyn group.
Yet there appears to be little doubt that the groups are linked. Peggy Uman, who started working with Mr. Perente-Ramos in the early 1970's, said she moved here in 1975 to establish the group, having first cleared it with him. Then, until she left the group seven years later, she filed daily reports about her activities, she said.
Ms. Kling, despite her experience, remains ambivalent about her break with the group and was upset to read that five of her former comrades had been arrested on weapons charges, including Dianne Garrett, her sponsor. "She's a compassionate, caring person," Ms. Kling said. "She really cares about the poor. She would never use a gun."
Ms. Kling objected to the characterization of the group as a cult, and said that no physical force was ever used to keep her there. But, she said, she does not want to go back.
In the first three months of 1995, Ms. Kling said, she was cloistered in Brooklyn. When her father was visiting from Missouri and wanted to spend the day with her, the group told her that she should not leave. Instead, he came to visit, and they were never left alone, she said.
The building was filled with bright people -- including a number of lawyers -- but it also was a tense place. Some recruits were clearly mentally ill, she said, and screaming arguments erupted regularly.
Dissatisfied with the life she was leading, Ms. Kling spent weeks plotting her escape. On that dark morning in March, alone in New York for the first time in her life, she wandered the streets of Brooklyn and tried to find a subway station.
"It was scary," she said, "but it felt wonderful to breathe the air of New York."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Kling left Williams College to join the National Labor Federation, which some have called a cult. (David Bruneau for The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PROVISIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY; WILLIAMS COLLEGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE (86%); NATIONAL LABOR FEDERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROVISIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY; WILLIAMS COLLEGE NATIONAL LABOR FEDERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FRINGE GROUPS AND MOVEMENTS; FIREARMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLICE STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CULTS & SECTS (88%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; KLING, JENNIFER JENNIFER KLING (91%); KURT P TAUBER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



335 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Changes Planned for Leading Indicators

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Seeking to sharpen an important tool for predicting the economy, the Conference Board said today that it would drop two components of its Composite Leading Index and replace them with a gauge of interest rates.
Beginning with the November reading, the price of sensitive materials and the volume of unfilled orders for manufactured durable goods are being removed because they "rank much lower" as predictors than the other nine components, the research group said. 
 The new indicator is the yield curve, the difference between long-term rates as measured by the 10-year Treasury bond and short-term rates as measured by the Federal funds rate.
The last time the index components were changed was in 1989 when the Commerce Department, which compiled it until late 1995, added the durable goods backlog, which is to be dropped with the University of Michigan's gauge of consumer expectations. These replaced business and consumer credit and manufacturing and trade inventories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (60%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (88%); INVENTORIES (88%); BONDS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); YIELD CURVE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



336 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Boycotts Rarely Have Impact on Bottom Line

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
In the early 1970's, a group of black, left-leaning students called for a boycott of Gulf Oil to protest the company's operations in Angola, which had been fighting to win its independence from Portugal. Protests were held on college campuses, investors were urged to sell Gulf stock, posters of Portuguese soldiers holding up the severed head of a black African under the words, "Boycott Gulf" adorned the walls of many black students' rooms.
But in the end, the boycott had little effect on Gulf's bottom line. 
 "Oil companies are so vertically integrated that it makes it difficult to attack them," said Randall Robinson, who was the leader of the student protests and is now the director of the TransAfrica Forum, a black lobbying organization.
Still, a boycott is not necessarily a wasted effort, he added. The Gulf boycott served as an important organizing tool and helped increase the public's knowledge of issues related to southern Africa.
"We saw Gulf more as a tool than a target," Mr. Robinson added. "Did we put a dent in Gulf? No."
As was the case with the black students in the 1970's, black leaders, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson, have again called for a boycott of an oil company, Texaco. In taking on the company, Mr. Jackson and others hope to settle a discrimination lawsuit brought by black employees. But Mr. Jackson also sees the Texaco campaign as the beginning of a shift in emphasis for the civil rights movement from elective politics and government policy to protests against private companies.
"For too long we have focused almost exclusively on the public sector and electing officials," Mr. Jackson said in a telephone interview. "There must be renewed focus, research and confrontation with the private sector."
In changing tactics, Mr. Jackson and others are choosing a method with a long and checkered history in the civil rights movement. As early as 1910, blacks across the South boycotted street cars, hoping to force the operators to provide them equal -- albeit separate -- seating.
In recent years, boycotts have been threatened against companies like Denny's and Shoney's, restaurants that had been accused of refusing to serve blacks or of discriminating against black employees. But so far no big national boycott by civil rights groups has been pressed.
"There have been attempts over the last couple of years to threaten boycotts, but I don't know that they've ever grabbed hold," said Julian Bond, a board member of the N.A.A.C.P. who also teaches history at the University of Virginia.
Historians and economists say that boycotts have often been useful in publicizing a cause, or as an organizing tool. Targeted companies generally say they have not been affected by such tactics, but have settled with the protesters to avoid continued bad publicity.
Even the most celebrated economic boycott by blacks -- the 1955 Montgomery bus boycott which started the civil rights career of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. -- failed to win the objectives sought by the protesters, according to a historian.
J. Mills Thornton, a professor of history at the University of Michigan, said the boycott did little harm to National City Lines, a Chicago-based company that owned the local bus company in Montgomery. The withdrawal of black ridership crippled the bus line, but the Montgomery company was such a small part of the parent company's operations, it hardly mattered.
"The boycott's importance was entirely psychological in the black community," said Mr. Thornton, whose research included a review of the company's internal documents. "It created a sense of common enterprise and united blacks across the class barriers and gave them all a sense they were engaged in a common struggle. All that was very important. But that's all the boycott did. It had no effect on the city and the management of the bus company."
King and the Montgomery Improvement Association, which he headed, succeeded in integrating Montgomery's buses only by suing. The suit led to a 1956 Supreme Court ruling that the bus lines' segregation was unconstitutional.
Sometimes the tactics have caused near disasters for civil rights organizations. In 1980, the Mississippi Supreme Court directed the N.A.A.C.P. to pay $1.25 million in damages to businesses in the town of Port Gibson, Miss., ruling that the commercial establishments had been damaged by a boycott organized by a local chapter of the civil rights organization. The damage award threatened to bankrupt the N.A.A.C.P., but was overturned by the Supreme Court two years later.
During his time as the head of Operation PUSH in the 1970's and 1980's -- a position he recently returned to -- Mr. Jackson called for boycotts against a number of high- profile brand name companies, including Coca-Cola; Anheuser-Busch; Philip Morris; Ford Motor; Burger King, a unit of Grand Metropolitan; Quaker Oats, and Nike.
Generally, the threat of a boycott was sufficient to force the company to reach an agreement with Mr. Jackson to increase minority hiring, purchase more supplies from black vendors, appoint women or minorities to positions on the board or make contributions to organizations like the United Negro College Fund, according to Frank Watkins, Mr. Jackson's former lieutenant at PUSH.
"We didn't have to boycott most of them," Mr. Watkins said, now the press secretary for Mr. Jackson's son, Representative Jesse Jackson Jr., a Chicago Democrat. "Most of them we were able to negotiate an agreement with. The only companies nationally that we had to boycott was Coke for a month and Anheuser-Busch for a year."
In 1981, Coca-Cola ended the boycott by increasing black-owned distributorships, advertising more in black-owned newspapers and setting a goal of having blacks make up 12.5 percent of its management force.
A year later, Mr. Jackson called for a nationwide boycott against Anheuser-Busch, which he accused of having too few black distributors. The boycott caused some divisions among black organizations, especially groups in St. Louis, which felt that the beer company had been a generous contributor to local causes.
In 1983 the boycott ended when the beer company made pledges similar to those of Coca-Cola.
But Anheuser-Busch signed no agreement and some executives later said the company already was embarking on many of the things it pledged to do.
 Indeed, as the boycott wound down, Mr. Jackson released a statement saying that his view of Anheuser-Busch's lack of commitment to minority advancement "may have been attributed to a failure of communication."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson sees a shift in emphasis by the civil rights movement to the private sector. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: PORTUGAL (94%); ANGOLA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (77%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (56%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC TRANSAFRICA FORUM (56%); TRANSAFRICA FORUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTUGAL (94%); ANGOLA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; BOYCOTTS BOYCOTTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); HISTORY (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); LOBBYING (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



337 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metroploitian Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
U.S. ADVANCE TEAM IS IN RWANDA
 
The vanguard of U.S. troops landed in the Rwandan capital, Kigali, to begin laying the groundwork for an international force to rescue Rwandan refugees trapped in a war zone in eastern Zaire. A1
 
When a Canadian envoy wanted to help Zaire, he called his uncle. A6
 
C.I.A. HELPS FREE RUSSIAN SPY
 
The Director of Central Intelligence helped free a retired Russian spy, convincing the Justice Department that his arrest was a mistake and that Moscow could retaliate by seizing retired C.I.A. officers. A1
 
THE CURSE OF ITALIAN UNITY
 
The divide between north and south has never been greater, and the split augurs ill for Italy as it tries to put its financial house in order. A1
 
A noted corruption fighter in Italy is under investigation. A8
 
BOSNIAN RIOTERS ATTACK G.I.'S
 
American soldiers were punched and hit with bottles by rioting civilians, presumably Muslims, after the soldiers raided a Bosnian Army camp and confiscated several tons of weapons and ammunition. A3
 
ULTIMATUM ON BOSNIAN PEACE
 
The U.S. and European countries gave notice to leaders of all three of Bosnia's ethnic groups that economic aid would end in two years if peace did not take hold. A3
 
Fossil undermines theory that birds are descendants of dinosaurs. A9
 
Pakistan's caretaker Prime Minister governs without frills. A10
 
Indian and Kazak officials trade blame for an airline collision. A11
 
Protesting the Miss World contest, an Indian commits suicide. A12
 
As Israeli settlements expand, so does fear of confrontation. A13
 
Managua Journal: Where even mailmen can't find their way. A4
 
National A14-30, B8
 
LEADING CANDIDATES EMERGE
 
As the jockeying intensifies over President Clinton's choices for his national security team, the names of leading candidates have surfaced for the top jobs at the Defense and State Departments. A1
 
NEW RULES ON LIVER TRANSPLANTS
 
An organization that controls the allocation of organs for transplant voted to change substantially the rules for determining which dying patients get livers, placing the organization at odds with a tradition in American medical practice. A1
 
STRANGE WEATHER IN CLEVELAND
 
The most remarkable sight in Cleveland after a four-foot snowfall this week is not the National Guard clearing streets or the shoulder-high snow banks, but the leaves still covering many trees. A14
 
ZEROING IN ON PARKINSON'S GENE
 
Scientists have found a general site for a gene believed responsible for some cases of Parkinson's disease, which they say is the first time anyone has found a genetic cause for a form of the disease. A19
 
2 VIEWS OF LABOR'S MUSCLE
 
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. president is sounding unmistakably upbeat even though Republicans assert that big labor was the big loser in last week's elections. A20
 
AN 'F' FOR WASHINGTON SCHOOLS
The board appointed by Congress to oversee operations of the District of Columbia has rated the school system "deplorable." A25
 
LOOKING BACK AT CONGRESS
 
As he packs away plaques and proposals by the boxful, Representative Pat Williams, Democrat of Montana, ends a life in politics with wonder at the money of it all. A28
 
LOGISTICS OF TRIAL'S BROADCAST
 
Who will get to watch the televised version of the Oklahoma City bombing trial? That is the question troubling the judge and lawyers in the Denver trial of the case. A30
 
EXTENDED CARE ON MASTECTOMIES
 
Hoping to fend off U.S. regulation, officials of managed health care plans said they would cover at least one night's hospital care for women who have mastectomies. A30
 
PLACING BLAME FOR CIVIL UNREST
 
The second bout of disturbances to erupt in St. Petersburg, Fla., after a white police officer fatally shot a black teen-ager was a "calculated event" by groups of youths, city officials said. B8
 
Metro Report B1-7
 
A POST-COLLEGE ODYSSEY
 
Jennifer Kling left Williams College to join the National Labor Federation with dreams of organizing the poor to create a more just world. Instead she ended up in what some consider a cult. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B9-16
 
Basketball: Knicks defeat Raptors. B9
 
Baseball: Juan Gonzalez named American League m.v.p. B9
 
Free-agent season opens. B14
 
Columns: Berkow on team nicknames B9
 
TV Sports B12
 
Football: Young Jet dissects team's troubles. B9
 
Giants see Cardinal assistant in their future. B11
 
Horse racing: Serena's Song being retired. B15
 
Weekend C1-33
 
At the Met with Kiki Smith. C1
 
For Children C33
 
Theater: "Chicago." C1
 
On Stage, and Off C2
 
"The Entertainer." C3
 
"Brigadoon." C3
 
"Family Values." C14
 
Film: "The English Patient." C1
 
"The Mirror Has Two Faces." C14
 
"Up-Down-Fragile." C17
 
"Space Jam." C18
 
For horn and string quartet. C4
 
Alicia de Larrocha. C19
 
Restaurants C28
 
Art: Plains Indian drawings. C24
 
A Samaras birthday show. C25
 
Bruce Nauman. C27
 
Inside Art C30
 
Art in Review C21
 
Books: "Eat Fat," by Richard Klein. C31
 
Television: TV Weekend D20
 
Obituaries D18-19
 
CHICAGO'S BERNARDIN DIES
 
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, who as a moderate church leader was at the center of most major developments in American Catholicism since the late 1960's, has died. A1
 
A grieving Chicago manages a wistful smile. D18
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A32-33
 
Editorials
 
Rescue mission to Africa.
 
Whose inauguration is it?
 
New York's tattered textbooks.
 
Helping the poor obtain justice.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: While we slept.
 
Bob Herbert: Dishonor and betrayal.
 
Anthony Lewis: A radical change.
 
Grigory A. Yavlinsky: Death of a scientist. 
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RIOTS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNICITY (66%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (66%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ORGAN DONATION (66%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (65%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (63%); WEATHER (60%); RELIGION (53%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



338 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: MAINE REPUBLICAN IS SEEN AS LEADING FOR DEFENSE POST

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
As the jockeying intensifies over President Clinton's choices for his national security team, William S. Cohen, the retiring Republican Senator from Maine, has emerged as the leading contender for Secretary of Defense, Administration officials said today.
But the question of who will be Secretary of State remains far more unsettled, senior officials said. George J. Mitchell, a former Democratic Senator from Maine, is still considered the leading candidate, but a strong faction in the Administration is pushing for Richard C. Holbrooke, the former Assistant Secretary of State who negotiated the Bosnia peace accords. 
 Mr. Clinton considers the assembly of his national security team as "the first and most urgent task that he sees in the transition itself," his press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, said today. The focus on that particular group of officials was also accelerated by the White House retirement ceremony for Secretary of State Warren Christopher, 71, two days after Mr. Clinton's re-election.
Officials cautioned that the President liked to mull over decisions and that Mr. Cohen, a moderate Republican who had emerged as a possible candidate for several posts, did not yet have the defense position wrapped up. But one senior Administration official said, "It's going to come down to that -- I think it already has come down to that."
Another official said that while Mr. Cohen was the front-runner now his chances could diminish if too much time passed without an announcement.
Senior White House officials said they did not think Mr. Clinton would announce any appointments on Friday before he leaves for a nearly two-week trip to Hawaii, Australia and Asia for an economic summit meeting. Several officials said he might wait until after Thanksgiving to announce the entire national security team at once.
Kathryn Waters Gest, Mr. Cohen's press secretary, said the Senator had no comment.
Assembling the President's national security team has become a complicated puzzle, as Mr. Clinton and his transition advisers examine how the candidates would mesh.
"The President is struck by how well that team has worked together in the past to advance America's foreign policy objectives and how important it is to have a team that continues to work in that fashion as we look to the next four years," Mr. McCurry said. "Getting a right individual here affects decisions about the right individual there, and he will make those announcements as he sees fit."
So, for example, there is even the question of how it would look if the Defense and State Departments were both run by former Senators from Maine.
Mr. Clinton has emphasized that in an effort to reach out to Republicans he would like to have members of their party in his Cabinet. But other possible Republican contenders have fallen away in recent days.
Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, who was considered a possible candidate for Secretary of State, announced that he was not interested. And Colin L. Powell, the retired general and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is considered an unlikely prospect because of the political threat he might pose as a challenger to Vice President Al Gore in the year 2000.
Mr. Gore has been one of the closest advisers to Mr. Clinton as he selects his new team, and one adviser familiar with the Vice President's thinking said he had raised questions about both Mr. Lugar and General Powell.
Mr. Cohen, 55, is widely regarded here as an intelligent, independent centrist. He announced earlier this year that he was not seeking a fourth term and that he needed new challenges after 24 years in Congress.
He made his initial mark in national politics as the anguished Republican newcomer in the House who broke ranks with his party and voted to impeach President Richard M. Nixon in 1974. He was elected to the Senate in 1978, and he has come to be recognized as a respected voice on military and intelligence matters.
While Mr. Cohen has moved into the lead to run the Defense Department, the search for Secretary of State remains more unsettled, officials said, with the four candidates said to be Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Holbrooke, retiring Senator Sam Nunn, a Georgia Democrat, and Madeleine K. Albright, the United States representative to the United Nations.
Mr. Mitchell, a senior Administration official said, is the clear leader but he is "not across the line yet." Mr. Holbrooke, whose strong views and brash personality have won him both defenders and detractors, is now said to be Mr. Mitchell's main challenger. The State Department, officials said, is split over Mr. Holbrooke and Mr. Mitchell, who is known to be Mr. Christopher's preference.
Several officials said that a possible problem for Mr. Mitchell is that he could emerge as an irritant rather than an asset in relations with Congress. Leading Republicans have let it be known that they considered him an extremely partisan Senate majority leader and that they might return the favor, though they would not block his confirmation.
An additional question in assembling the national security team is whether Anthony Lake will remain as national security adviser. He and Mr. Holbrooke have had a long, up-and-down relationship going back to the days when they were Foreign Service officers in Vietnam. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON; MITCHELL, GEORGE J; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (88%); DICK LUGAR (78%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



339 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
Fringe Group Enlisted Students
While the stated aim of the National Labor Federation was to mobilize workers to challenge the fundamental economic system, it appears to have achieved little in that arena. What has perhaps drawn the greatest attention to the group is its recruiting efforts among a very different group: idealistic college students at an elite school in Massachusetts. The group's odd world remained relatively unknown until the police discovered an arsenal at its headquarters in Brooklyn. [Page A1.]
 
Tensions flared between the group and the tenants who live alongside it in Crown Heights. [B4.]
 
Passing Along Welfare Controls
Just as the Federal Government has turned over to states major responsibility for running welfare programs, Governor Pataki is proposing to transfer to local governments broad new powers to decide what necessities to give many of the state's poorest people, and for how long. [B1.]
 
Kinder Riders (Laugh Here)
The Transit Authority wants to make better people out of New Yorkers, sensitive souls who step aside on subway platforms, who do not pile in the moment the doors open. Lots of luck. While New Yorkers usually come through like champs at the extremes of good or bad, it is in daily life that their manners head south, especially on the subway. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Nothing to Squawk At
Niki Barkoutsis, 23, of Queens stepped forward as one of the winners of the $45 million Lotto jackpot. Her father is the owner of several outlets of the fast-food eatery Chirping Chicken. [B1.]
 
Guilty Verdict in Murder
A Brooklyn man was found guilty of kidnapping and murder for setting afire last year a 20-year-old college student he once professed to love like a sister. Joshua Torres, 23, sat unmoved, as he had for most of the two-week trial, while the verdict was read: guilty on all but one of seven counts in Kimberly Antonakos's abduction and death. [B3.]
 
Jogger Raped in Prospect Park
A 30-year old jogger was raped and sodomized in broad daylight in Prospect Park, the police said. The woman was jogging along a bridle path near the Quaker cemetery when the unarmed attacker grabbed her and dragged her into a wooded area, the police said. [B3.]
 
How to Spend a Windfall
Mayor Giuliani formally presented a plan for spending an unexpected $450 million windfall in tax revenues, drawing praise from some independent budget analysts and attacks from his Democratic rivals, who asserted that new spending would not make up for his earlier cuts. [B3.]
 
Gang Indicted in Drug Case
Eighteen members of a violent, multimillion-dollar crack gang, including a former New York City housing police officer, were indicted on racketeering charges that included 11 murders and drug dealing that terrorized Harlem and Bronx neighborhoods for the last decade, the authorities said. [B4.]
 
2 Charged in Embezzlement
A married couple who operated a home for mentally retarded adults in Queens were arrested and charged with embezzling an estimated $500,000 in Medicaid funds provided for running the home, where a state commission had found squalid conditions. [B4.]
 
Leading U.S. in Bypass Surgery
The chance of dying from cardiac bypass surgery in New York State is lower than that reported in any other area of the country and is the lowest since the state began surveying the results of the operation five years ago, health officials reported. [B5.]
 
The Manhattan Borough President plans to run radio commercials that criticize both a plan for suburban-style superstores and its prominent advocate, Mayor Giuliani. [B4.]
 
Nine West Group Inc. is consolidating its Cincinnati and Stamford, Conn., operations and moving its headquarters to White Plains. [B5.]
 
REGION
 
T.W.A. Crash Victim Identified
Medical investigators have identified another victim of the crash of Trans World Airlines Flight 800, reducing the number of missing victims to 15 out of the 230 people who perished. The identification was made on human remains recovered by boats dredging the crash site for any last pieces of wreckage, officials at the Suffolk County Medical Examiner's Office said. [B6.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
Hungry for Kosher Ravioli?
The smorgasbord of kosher foodstuffs jockeying for attention in the Meadowlands Exposition Center is dizzying, from kosher-for-Passover unleavened taco shells to fleecy tufts of kosher cotton candy; kosher bonbons made in Belgium, kosher baby food made in France, kosher ravioli. Kosherfest '96 is a window into a brave new kosher world, marked by relentless innovation and keen competition, that isn't just for Passover, or Jews, anymore. [B1.]
 
Revising Whitman School Plan
In their first effort to revise Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's school financing plan, Republicans proposed legislation that would spare wealthy suburban school districts from deep budget cuts and cap spending for all of the state's school districts. [B6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); MURDER (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (85%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (85%); INDICTMENTS (85%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); FAST FOOD (69%); LOTTERIES (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); GANGS (63%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



340 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Dow Tops 6,300 On Signs of Slow Growth
Stock prices again rose to records, as reports on consumer prices and retail sales added evidence that the economy is growing slowly, with little inflation.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.76 points, 6,313.00, led by I.B.M., Philip Morris and Allied Signal. It was the Dow's seventh consecutive record close. [Page D6.]
 
The Treasury market was also strengthened by the economic reports. The 30-year bond yield fell to 6.42 percent from 6.45. [D16.]
 
Two Valujet Founders Sell Shares
Two of the four founders of Valujet airlines each sold one million shares of stock, the first time either had cashed in his original investment in the carrier, which saw spectacular success before a deadly crash in the Florida Everglades. The sale -- at more than $2 below the market price -- came after the company said it expected to default on its loan agreements by the end of the year. [D2.]

Motorola Elevates an Heir
Motorola named Christopher B. Galvin, the grandson of its founder, as its next chief executive. The ascension of the 46-year-old Mr. Galvin, now the company's president and chief operating officer, was no surprise but came sooner than expected. [D2.]
 
A Russian I.P.O. on the Big Board
Russia's leading cellular telephone company, Vimpel-Communications, is set for a roughly $90 million initial public offering as the first Russian company to be listed on the Big Board. When trading begins, investors will be able to buy part of a young company run by former Soviet military scientists who -- according to the prospectus -- have been making money hand over cellular handset. [D6.]
Suit Seeks to Block Blue Cross Deal
The Texas Attorney General filed a lawsuit seeking to block the merger of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas, a nonprofit corporation, and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, a mutual insurance company. The suit said Texas Blue Cross was a charitable asset that could not be removed from the state. [D16.]

BT Earnings Fall Slightly
British Telecommunications said that its earnings fell by three-tenths of 1 percent in the fiscal second quarter as it reduced prices to meet regulatory requirements and faced increased expenses for staff cuts. [D2.]
 
Credit Card Data Company Sold
Great Universal Stores, a British retailer, said that it would acquire the Experian Corporation, an American credit-card data company, for $1.7 billion. TRW sold most of Experian, which provides credit and marketing information, to two buyout companies two months ago for $1.01 billion. [D2.]

Consolidation for Turner Film Units
Time Warner is rapidly revamping the unwieldy film operation it inherited in the merger with Turner Broadcasting. It said it would fold Turner Pictures, a small production company, into Warner Brothers, and it is proceeding with plans to sell New Line Cinema. Several recent New Line films have been box office disappointments, including "The Long Kiss Goodnight." [D5.]
 
Shoe Company Shifts Operations
Nine West is consolidating its Cincinnati and Stamford, Conn., operations and moving its headquarters to White Plains. The move by the shoe company will bring 1,250 jobs to New York State. [B5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,313.00 up 38.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.42% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 111.22 yen down 0.57
 
Graphs: "TODAY" show monthly percent change in industrial production from April to Sept. and capacity utilization percentages from April to Sept.
 
Expected figures for October
Industrial production: -0.1%
Capacity utilization: 83%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIP (NYSE) (82%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (82%); VIMPELCOM LTD (82%); EXPERIAN CORP (61%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); GREAT UNIVERSAL STORES PLC (51%); VALUJET FOUNDERS (60%); BIG BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VALUJET FOUNDERS (60%); BIG BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); LITIGATION (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER B GALVIN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



341 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: October Retail Sales Weak; Price Index Up 0.3%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Consumersspent a bit more money last month but only because of inflation.
Retail sales rose just two-tenths of 1 percent in October as weak automotive sales prevented any increase at all for goods intended to last for several years, the Commerce Department reported today. The broad retail sales numbers raised questions about the expectations of a significantly improved Christmas shopping season, but department stores sales were up more strongly. 
 At the same time, the Labor Department found that consumer prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent for the second consecutive month. The results marked the first increase in energy prices since May, but that reassured analysts that inflation posed little threat.
"It looks like inflation is pretty well held in check," said John Park, an economist at Sanwa Securities in New York. On Wednesday the Labor Department said that prices at the wholesale, level posted their biggest decline in two years when the erratic food and energy components were excluded.
Over all, the latest figures portrayed an economy that continues to expand at a moderate pace and without generating anything near the pickup in inflation that has typically flared at such a mature stage of the business cycle. The economy has expanded without significant interruption since the end of the latest recession in March 1991.
The meager retail sales figures pointed up the biggest question looming over the economy: whether consumers, who this summer finally reined in their strong spending and borrowing, have temporarily paused or are in serious retrenchment.
Yet another set of figures today showed that first-time applications for unemployment benefits eased 4,000 last week, to 328,000, with the four-week average now standing at 330,250. Despite such a buoyant job market, consumers raised their savings during the third quarter and did not spend very freely last month.
In fact, merchants selling furniture and equipment for the home suffered a 1 percent sales decline despite a strong real estate market. Automotive sales were down three-tenths of 1 percent but the other major category of durable goods -- building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes -- showed a gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent to leave overall sales of durables unchanged.
Sales were up three-tenths of 1 percent for nondurables but mainly because of a sharp jump at food stores that appeared mainly to reflect higher prices, not extra volume.
Still, analysts noted, department stores and others selling general merchandise managed an increase of seven-tenths of 1 percent and drugstores posted a 1 percent October sales gain.
"This is a good sign for the holiday season," said Carl Palash, chief economist at MCM Moneywatch, a New York research firm. He also noted that the department revised its sales totals for August and September up by one-tenth of 1 percent each.
The advance estimate released today for October retail sales, $206.6 billion, is an extrapolation based on just one-third of the outlets in the Commerce Department's monthly survey. Since October 1995, total sales climbed 5.2 percent, the report also showed, while consumer inflation over this 12-month period was 3 percent.
The report on consumer prices, which is generally viewed as a backward-looking rather than predictive indicator, reflected sharp increases for food and energy, items that for most of the last five years have tended to moderate overall price movements but are the source of this year's acceleration.
The Consumer Price Index has advanced at a 3.3 percent pace over the first 10 months compared with a 2.5 percent pace for all of 1995.
Without food and energy, which gyrate without much relation to business conditions, the price advance was a benign two-tenths of 1 percent for October and 2.6 percent over the latest 12 months.
In fact, food prices have likely peaked after plentiful grain harvests and oil prices have also eased, analysts said.
"The worst may be over on both fronts," said Bruce Steinberg, a Merrill Lynch economist.
Dairy products and fresh fruits and vegetables accounted for over three-quarters of the jump in food prices last month while household fuels contributed to a slight pickup in the cost of housing, which makes up 41 percent of the C.P.I.
Apparel prices climbed five-tenths of 1 percent for the second consecutive month but this followed a period in which prices were statistically depressed by a slower than usual introduction of new autumn and winter merchandise.
The transportation index rose only negligibly last month as spurts in gasoline and airline fares were offset by lower prices for new and used cars and the first decline in automobile finance charges since February.
Today's figures were likely the last before a special commission studying the accuracy of Consumer Price Index issues its final report, due Dec. 1. The panel and most other economists believe that the index overstates inflation by a substantial amount.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Prices" shows percent change in consumer prices from Nov. 1995 to Oct. 1996 for the U.S. and for selected cites. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; CHRISTMAS RETAIL SALES (94%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); MOBILE HOMES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



342 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Officials in St. Petersburg Call Racial Unrest 'Calculated'

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., Nov. 14

 BODY:
City officials said today that the second bout of disturbances to erupt here after a white police officer fatally shot a black teen-ager was a "calculated event" by groups of youths. The officials added that the young people had been partly incited by a black militant group that threatened violence if the officer was cleared of criminal charges.
Mayor David J. Fischer and the Chief of Police, Darrel W. Stephens, told City Council members at a meeting today that in recent days city cleanup crews had stumbled upon six tons of rocks and bottles that had been stockpiled around the black neighborhood where the disturbances occurred. The first was on Oct. 24, when Officer James Knight, 34, shot Tyron Lewis, 18, after stopping him for speeding, and the second was on Wednesday night, after a Pinellas County grand jury found that the shooting was justified. 
 Chief Stephens said the "caches" had been found near the headquarters of the National People's Democratic Uhuru Movement, a black group known for its fiery oratory advocating more power for blacks. The group recently held a "tribunal" that found the Mayor, the Chief and two officers involved in Mr. Lewis's death all guilty of murder and demanded their execution.
The Uhuru are led by Omali Yeshitela, 55, who founded the African People's Socialist Party in 1972. The group advocates black self-determination and recently called for black workers to strike in protest of their treatment here. Black residents account for about 19 percent of St. Petersburg's population of 245,000. At a news conference today Mr. Yeshitela characterized his tribunal's call for the execution of city officials as an expression of anger.
"The black community is incensed about that murder," he said, "and that was what was expressed in the rendering of the panel of judges."
At a 1993 hearing on racial and ethnic tensions, the city's Uhuru branch president, Alvelita Waller Donaldson, told the United States Commission on Human Rights, "I think conditions will breed that kind of thing, that we'll have rebellions, uprisings inside the community if conditions do not change."
The commission has scheduled hearings here next month. Bobby Doctor, the commission's Southern region director in Atlanta, said that despite "strides in the right direction," like rehabilitating housing and seeking financing for job programs to ease high unemployment rates in the black population, "it's very clear that there are deep-seated problems in St. Petersburg as there are in many urban areas."
"We're talking about a lack of significant economic development, problems with community relations," Mr. Doctor said. "There's a tremendous amount of mistrust between the police department and members of the black community. Any spark can lead to a major eruption. That's what took place."
The grand jury, which heard from 49 witnesses, said in a nine-page report on Wednesday that the death of Mr. Lewis was justifiable homicide because the officer had been "in reasonable fear of imminent death" when he fired three times as Mr. Lewis's car lurched toward him.
But on the day that the grand jury issued its finding, a police review board determined that the officer could have avoided the use of force. It suspended him for 60 days for placing himself "in a position of disadvantage and danger" when he moved in front of the vehicle after Mr. Lewis refused to exit the car.
Within hours, violence erupted in the area south of downtown that is home to most of the city's black population. An estimated $5 million in damages had resulted from about 30 arson fires. One police officer was shot in the leg, and a Pinellas County sheriff's deputy who was piloting a helicopter narrowly escaped a bullet as what the Mayor described as "small roving bands" of youths in their teens and early 20's took to the streets with rocks, bottles and Molotov cocktails.
Chief Stephens said the level of gunfire was unprecedented for this city. About 300 officers responded, he said, blocking off streets and firing tear gas canisters to disperse crowds. But they were met with such resistance, the chief said, that "there were several instances when officers were pinned down behind cars, having to take cover from gunfire."
Over 100 arson fires were reported Wednesday night, but by today fire department officials had confirmed only about 30, mostly in houses and stores. City officials said that the violence subsided by midnight and that today was calm. Officials have no firm damage estimates. The police said nine people had been arrested.
Chief Stephens himself came under attack today when residents of the arson-scarred neighborhoods accused him of worsening tensions, after the grand jury issued its report, by ordering the arrest of several members of the Uhuru Movement for outstanding warrants on misdemeanor charges, mostly traffic related.
He told reporters today that his officers had planned to arrest three members of the group to prevent them from joining in any violence.
But Wilson M. Carter, 54, who lives on a street where two houses burned down, had a simple explanation for the disturbances that have visited his neighborhood.
"They didn't have to kill that man," Mr. Carter said of the officers. "That's what it all boils down to."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Several houses were set afire in St. Petersburg, Fla., on Wednesday night after a grand jury cleared a white policeman in the killing of a black motorist. Melissa Ross, a neighbor, looked at one of them yesterday. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Florida showing the location of St. Petersburg. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC UHURU MOVEMENT UHURU MOVEMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC UHURU MOVEMENT UHURU MOVEMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST PETERSBURG (FLA); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MURDER (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RIOTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); GRAND JURY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); STRIKES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); ETHNICITY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; KNIGHT, JAMES (POLICE OFFICER); LEWIS, TYRON TYRON LEWIS (83%); DARREL W STEPHENS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996



343 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices in Retreat As Investors Take Profits

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell yesterday, as investors chose to take profits on this week's market run-up.
The selling presssure increased after economic reports that suggested that consumers might begin to spend more, touching off a rebound in economic growth and causing inflation to accelerate. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 16/32 , to 10019/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.46 percent, from 6.42 percent on Thursday. A week ago, it was 6.50 percent.
Traders said bonds seesawed through the session as the Federal Reserve and the Commerce Department released reports on factory use and business inventories.
The Federal Reserve reported yesterday that industrial production fell by half of 1 percent -- much weaker than what the market expected. Bond prices rose on the news, but the gains soon eroded as it became evident that much of the weakness was production lost as a result of a strike against General Motors.
"After investors sifted through the details they were unable to get too bullish since most of the lost strike- related production would be made up in future months," said Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisers Corporation of Columbus, Ohio.
Losses widened after the University of Michigan's preliminary report on consumer confidence in November showed a jump to 98.9 in the index reading, from 96.5 percent in October, traders said. It was the highest reading in 10 years, raising expectations that the holiday sales will be robust. The unversity's survey is released only to paying subscribers.
Another report, on business inventories, was in line with expectations. "With this latest information, the overall composition of third-quarter real growth G.D.P. will look a lot stronger going into the fourth quarter," Mr. Chan said.
Bond prices were further weighed down by a drop in the dollar, making dollar-denominated investment vehicles like Treasury securities less attractive to foreign investors.
Next week, the market will have few economic reports to digest. "With little data on tap for next week, investors are likely to use the housing starts data on Tuesday to speculate on whether the slowdown during the third quarter is real or temporary," Mr. Chan said.
Supply may also be a factor next week, as the Treasury gets set to auction $30.75 billion in new two- and five-year notes, along with the $28 billion in bills at the regular weekly bill auction. In when-isssued trading, the yet-to-be-sold two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.66 percent and the five-year note, 5.95 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); CURRENCIES (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANTHONY CHAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



344 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show Little Dissent Over Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Despite widespread speculation that there had been a rift within the Federal Reserve at its September meeting over the issue of whether monetary policy needed to be tightened, minutes of the session released today showed that a strong majority saw no compelling case for raising rates at a time when the economy was slowing from its overheated pace earlier in the year.
Saying they were wary about an outbreak of inflation, but finding little evidence that it was occurring, members of the Fed's policy-making body voted 11 to 1 to hold interest rates steady at the Sept. 24 meeting, the minutes said. 
 The decision appears to have been proved the right one by a series of subsequent reports showing that growth has moderated to a sustainable pace and that there continues to be little upward pressure on prices. The Fed again voted to leave rates unchanged at a meeting on Wednesday; minutes of that meeting will be released on Dec. 20.
Before the September meeting, a rare news leak, apparently from a Fed official, disclosed that 8 of the 12 Federal Reserve Bank presidents were pushing for an increase in the discount rate, one of two interest rates controlled by the Fed, and that a consensus was forming in favor of an increase in the more important Federal funds rate, the target rate for overnight lending between banks.
But the minutes, while showing some differences of opinion about the immediacy of any inflation threat, disclosed no concerted challenge to those within the Fed, including Alan Greenspan, the chairman, who were calling for a wait-and-see posture.
"A few members indicated that they could vote for some slight tightening in policy, although they did not feel any urgency about such a move," the minutes said. "They observed that the decision was a close one for them, and in light of the uncertainties that were involved, they were willing to join the majority and wait for further evidence bearing on the outlook for inflation."
In the end, the only member of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee to vote for higher rates was Gary H. Stern, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Mr. Stern had also dissented on his own at the two previous meetings, in July and August, and had made no secret of his view that low unemployment and signs of rising wages would set off inflation.
"Given prevailing pressures on resources, especially labor, Mr. Stern was concerned about the distinct risk of an acceleration of inflation," the minutes said. "Should this acceleration occur, he believed it would prove disruptive to the favorable performance of the economy, and he preferred to begin to address this risk promptly."
The minutes outlined a discussion about whether the available statistics were giving an accurate view. In particular, Fed members questioned whether measurements of productivity were reflecting increases in the ability of companies to absorb prices increases through greater efficiency.
In the end, the minutes showed, the group decided to leave in place its formal bias toward raising rates if new evidence of inflation was to appear. But members remained somewhat puzzled about precisely what was happening in the economy.
"The members generally agreed that while the risks were greater that price inflation would rise than that it would fall, higher inflation was not a foregone conclusion and most believed that the uncertainties in the outlook made it prudent to hold monetary policy on a steady course and await further developments," the minutes said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); STATISTICS (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



345 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: October Output Off 0.5%; First Decline in 7 Months

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
The output of the nation's factories fell in October for the first time in seven months as strikes at General Motors slowed production while some businesses were trimming inventories.
The Federal Reserve said today that industrial production fell by half of 1 percent, largely because of the ripple effect of the strike at the Canadian plants of General Motors and later disputes that closed some G.M. assembly lines in the United States. 
 Even with auto plants excluded, output at factories, mines and utilities was down two-tenths of 1 percent, with most industries sharing in the loss.
"Producers are responding to the pickup in inventories last summer," when consumer spending waned, said Mark M. Zandi, an economist at Regional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa.
By matching inventories with slowing sales, businesses are setting the stage for higher production as demand strengthens, he added.
"It suggests the economy will continue to expand moderately next year," he said.
A separate report today, from the Commerce Department, showed that growth in business inventories slowed to one-tenth of 1 percent in September, from three-tenths in August and five-tenths in July.
At the same time, business sales rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in September after slipping two-tenths of 1 percent the previous month.
Many analysts say sales will continue to grow moderately as the Christmas shopping season approaches.
The Fed report offered no sign of inflation, saying industries were operating at 82.7 percent of capacity in October, down from 83.4 percent in September. Analysts generally consider a capacity utilization rate of more than 85 percent to be potentially inflationary, opening the possibility of production bottlenecks that can lead to shortages and higher prices.
The decline in overall production was the first since an identical drop of five-tenths of 1 percent in March. Many analysts had predicted that output would remain unchanged in October.
The production of durable goods -- products like cars that are expected to last more than three years -- fell seven-tenths of 1 percent in October.
"Motor vehicle assemblies dropped more than 7 percent from their September level," the Fed report said. "This falloff resulted largely from shortages of parts made at strike-affected plants in Canada and from a strike that had shut down some domestic assembly plants late in the month."
Output of nondurable goods like chemicals and clothing slipped two-tenths of 1 percent. Output at utilities was unchanged, but mining production fell 1 percent after slipping one-tenth of 1 percent the previous month.
Against the lower trend, the computer and office equipment sector posted a 2.1 percent increase.
In its report, the Commerce Department said the inventory-to-sales ratio dipped to 1.39, from 1.40. The September figure matched the May and July levels, which were the lowest since the Government began tracking the data in 1982. The number means that 1.39 months would be required to exhaust stockpiles at the September sales rate.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Industrial Production" shows and index of total industrial production from May 1995 to Oct. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); TRENDS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (61%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



346 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
The State Department this week released the names of 20 outstanding American religious leaders and scholars who will form a new Advisory Committee on Religious Freedom Abroad.
The formation of the committee is a milestone in the battle against religious persecution. 
 Or it is a charade.
The State Department's action reflects a long overdue recognition that religion, no less than geography and trade, must be an important consideration in American foreign policy.
Or the action pays lip service to growing demands that the United States respond forcefully to persecution of Christians around the world while submerging that concern in a sea of other issues and assigning it to the very bureaucracy that is being challenged.
Those are two views of a committee created after a whole year's fierce maneuverings in private and in public, in Government circles and among various church groups.
The first view is that of John Shattuck, Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, who will be chairman of the new advisory committee.
The second view is that of Michael Horowitz, a former Reagan Administration official and now a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington.
Mr. Horowitz is a Jew who became virtually obsessed with combatting persecution of Christians overseas after volunteering to help several evangelical victims obtain asylum in the United States, and discovering bureaucratic resistance to such requests from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
For a year, he has been badgering everyone from the White House and the State Department to the Christian churches themselves to put the spotlight not on mere discrimination or lack of religious freedom but on the killings, torture, mob looting, imprisonment and even enslavement that have been meted out to Christians, especially evangelical Christians, primarily by authorities in Communist nations like China, North Korea and Vietnam or by militant Islamic forces, official or unofficial in Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Egypt and elsewhere.
Mr. Horowitz and his allies see such Christians as the most persecuted religious group in the world. He calls them "the Jews of the 21st century in much of the world," referring not to the singular and systematic destruction of the Holocaust but to the centuries of exclusion, persecution and pogroms that preceded it.
In many regions, Christians, like Jews before them, he argues, are viewed as outsiders, branded as agents of a corrupting West and a disruptive, modernity, made into scapegoats by unscrupulous leaders who need to cement their own power.
In this view, the defense of Christian freedom from persecution is in effect a defense of minimal democracy and even a defense of the moderate, tolerant elements that exist in Islam and other world religions.
Not surprisingly Mr. Horowitz's model for remedying this situation is the Campaign for Soviet Jewry, the 1980's agitation that put the muscle of the United States behind demands that the Soviet Union allow Jewish emigration to Israel.
The centerpiece of that campaign would be a Special Adviser to the President who could advocate giving the plight of persecuted Christians a priority in the nation's foreign policy instead of the indifference and even hostility with which Mr. Horowitz and his allies characterizes the current approach of the State Department and the immigration service.
Early this year, the Administration nibbled at this proposal and then backed away. Undoubtedly it ran into longstanding misgivings about making rights a prime objective of foreign policy, especially when that would complicate security concerns or economic advantage.
Beyond that were a serious question whether the problem of anti-Christian persecution was more complicated than the campaigners acknowledged. Although it might be politically galvanizing to lump all the forms of anti-Christian oppression into a single, escalating, global problem, was that really productive of sound analysis and skillful diplomacy?
And why focus on Christians alone or even primarily? Did that enhance the cause or undermine its credibility?
The advisory committee, which will address the persecution of all religious groups, is the Administration's response. It is about as distinguished a group as one could hope for. It includes the Rev. Don Argue, president of the National Association of Evangelicals, and Nina Shea, a conservative interested in human rights issues whom Mr. Horowitz and others were promoting for the Special Adviser job.
It includes the Rev. Leonid Kishkovsky, an Orthodox priest and former officer of the National Council of Churches, and Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark. Both have long records of involvement with the problems of persecuted Christians in the Soviet bloc.
It includes scholars like Dr. David Little of the U.S. Institute of Peace and Dr. Diana L. Eck, who teaches world religions at Harvard. There are Jewish, Muslim, Baha'i and Mormon officials and scholars as well.
Mr. Horowitz and his allies are not impressed. The panel, said Dr. Richard D. Land, president of the Christian Life Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, will be "a wholly owned subsidiary of the State Department" that will be staffed and directed by the very people whose policies out to be under review.
They have little patience with the contention of one Administration official that placing the committee in the State Department was the only realistic way of giving it clout and a budget.
Sometimes Mr. Horowitz and Dr. Land sound as though the American Government is as much the enemy as any of those that persecute Christians. Their appeals for a special adviser sound more like demands for a special prosecutor.
If one assumes that this problem is really a bit more complicated than Mr. Horowitz and Dr. Land indicate, or that some good will and genuine concern about human rights and religious persecution actually exist in the Government, then the advisory committee makes more sense.
But can a committee that will meet two or three times a year for two years and be entirely reliant on State Department personnel who have other responsibilities really do this job? Can even a wonderful cross section of the best and the brightest in American religion suddenly function as a team?
Mr. Shattuck has described the committee's goals in notably soft terms: to provide information about religious persecution to the Government, to "foster dialogue" between religious groups and the Government about Washington's efforts on behalf of religious freedom overseas.
At the same time, he has handed them an additional topic -- how to turn religion into a peacemaking rather than divisive force in areas like Bosnia -- that is even broader that combatting persecution. In a phone conversation on Thursday, he repeatedly stressed that the committee would not be "action-oriented."
At this point, what exactly it will be rests heavily on the shoulders of its 20 eminent members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (63%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (55%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT HUDSON INSTITUTE (55%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; FREEDOM OF RELIGION RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HOLOCAUST (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); GENOCIDE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER MAYO SHATTUCK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



347 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Go Slow on Digital TV

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission is poised to issue standards for transmission of digital television -- broadcasts with the picture quality of movie theaters and the sound quality of CD's. The standards, in draft form, are backed by the broadcasters but opposed by parts of the computer industry. Most commissioners -- only the chairman, Reed Hundt, resists -- have lined up behind the broadcasters even though the staff has been flooded with conflicting technical and economic studies submitted by the industries whose financial fortunes will be dictated by the commission's decision.
This is more than a mud fight between corporate behemoths. Every American household will be affected. The broadcasters may have the better of the argument. But it will take an independent panel of experts to resolve key technical issues before the commission can be sure. 
 Some commissioners are rushing to get digital television going before the Europeans and others take control of the industry. But the Japanese rushed ahead, adopted the wrong standard and wasted billions of dollars. The task is to make the right choice for the next several decades.
The commission's mandate is to issue standards so that broadcasters, equipment manufacturers and consumers can know what they need to do to bring digital television into homes. The broadcasters favor a standard that would allow them to choose any of 18 video formats. Some of the video formats, for example, provide for extra-high resolution and "repaint" screens fast enough to capture high-speed live action, such as sports. It is assumed that new television sets and computers would be built to receive most, if not all, of these formats.
The computer-industry proposes a standard that would impose just one format on every broadcaster. Broadcasters could then create other formats by building features onto the standard format. That way, every television and computer could receive the basic signal, but consumers would need to buy additional equipment to capture extra-high resolution or other features.
There are three key unresolved issues in deciding whose standard works better. The computer industry says its proposal will permit the most innovation because it does not lock broadcasters into 18 formats. Besides, they say, the broadcasters want a system that would allow the industry as a whole to veto innovations by individual broadcasters. The broadcasters retort that their system would allow for as much experimentation as the computer industry's. This issue is key, since Federal regulators have no idea what format will prove best next year, let alone 10 years from now.
A second issue is cost. By indirectly requiring television sets and computers to accommodate 18 video formats, the broadcasters' plan will cost more. The question is how much. Technical studies by the broadcasters show the cost would be modest, even as low as $5 per set. The computer industry says the cost will be upward of $250 per set. Here is where an independent panel of experts could pin down plausible estimates.
Finally, the broadcasters accuse the computer industry, by favoring a single format, of trying to rig the market in favor of a technology that is best for the computer industry. The broadcasters' standard, by comparison, includes several formats, thereby accommodating the technical needs of both industries. It may appear that the broadcasters win this argument handily. But the commission must satisfy itself that, given the option of many formats, the broadcasters will not be able to lock in their preferred format -- thereby rigging the market in favor of a potentially inferior technology.
The commission does not have the facts at hand to resolve the issues of innovation, cost and market access. Mr. Hundt seems to want more time to make the correct choice. He is right to ask for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; EDITORIALS; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION DIGITAL TELEVISION (93%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); 

PERSON: HUNDT, REED E (CHMN) REED HUNDT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



348 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: A Distant Departure From Bosnia

 BODY:
Common sense dictates that after a year of imperfect peace, Bosnia is not ready for NATO forces to go home on Dec. 20, as originally planned. But Americans ought to have no illusions about what can be accomplished by prolonging their stay, nor should they accept President Clinton's facile assertion yesterday that he was announcing a new and different military mission. Mr. Clinton delayed America's exit from the current mission. To assure that further delays do not develop, the Administration should sharpen the withdrawal strategy Mr. Clinton outlined. It must also obtain Congressional approval for the extended American presence.
Under Mr. Clinton's plan, United States forces, originally 20,000, would be reduced to 8,500. Overall NATO force levels would be cut from the 60,000 the mission began with to just over 30,000. The new target date for total withdrawal would be moved ahead to June 1998, with partial withdrawals along the way based on progress reviews every six months. 
 This so-called "follow-on force" will be doing the same things the current military force has been doing since it finished separating the rival ethnic armies some six months ago. That means, primarily, deterring a return to open ethnic warfare. It also means providing security for the civilians trying to rebuild Bosnia's economy and institutions.
In theory, these tasks could be accomplished by European forces alone. But an important consideration in apportioning military responsibilities in Bosnia has been Washington's desire to maintain unity and American leadership in NATO. That legitimate concern argues for the United States to continue providing between one-quarter and one-third of the forces in Bosnia, as it has for the past year.
A year of NATO supervision has halted the pitched battles and urban sieges that ravaged Bosnia during 43 months of war. But smaller armed skirmishes have continued, including one this week that forced American soldiers to separate the combatants. National elections have been held, but municipal voting has been postponed until spring. Institutions like a national presidency and parliament have been established but not made to function. The hope of eventual reunification is fading, replaced by the reality of hardening partition.
In these circumstances, the best NATO forces can hope to accomplish is to contain the violence, protect the municipal elections and perhaps reinforce habits of peaceful ethnic coexistence. By keeping their troops on the ground, participating countries can also press Balkan leaders to honor their commitments under the Dayton peace agreement, including the arrest of war crimes suspects. What outsiders cannot do is force Bosnians to live together or cooperate in rebuilding their country.
That is why the withdrawal schedule Mr. Clinton proposes is unacceptably vague. A drawn-out timetable with periodic reviews could become an excuse for staying indefinitely rather than withdrawing as soon as practicable. NATO planners must also be careful not to thin their forces so far as to invite harassment and attack. It would make more sense to set a target for total withdrawal by next summer or fall and not be deflected from it.
Congress approved a one-year assignment of American troops to peacekeeping in Bosnia. Mr. Clinton must present his extension plans, with tightened withdrawal deadlines, to the new Congress for approval in January. Until then, he should seek the consent of the Congressional leadership.
Compared with the pessimistic predictions so common a year ago, the NATO mission in Bosnia has been a clear, if limited success. That success warrants a brief extension. But the Administration still must guard against the danger of open-ended timetables and unrealistic expectations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); WAR CRIMES (65%); CITIES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



349 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Gold Diggers of 1996;
Nevada Mining Shifts Underground to Get the Deep Ore

BYLINE: By JON CHRISTENSEN 

DATELINE: CARLIN, Nev.

 BODY:
More than a thousand feet below the snow-covered hills of northern Nevada, miners toil alone or in pairs in sweltering tunnels separated by absolute darkness. They are digging for gold.
Tom Huhta and Dale Spring work the day shift at the Barrick Gold Corporation's Meikle mine. On a recent morning, sweat poured off their faces as they lifted a traditional two-man jackleg drill to install a metal brace to keep loose rock from falling on them. They were tunneling toward a huge pocket of ore estimated to contain 6.6 million ounces of gold. Steam whistled from cracks and fissures in the 140-degree rock walls. "It's like an oven," Mr. Huhta said. 
 Gold mining in Nevada, which accounts for 60 percent of the gold produced in the United States, is going underground. For 30 years, mining companies have scoured the desert landscape with open pits -- a dozen huge ones have been scooped out of the mountains around Carlin, which is midway between Reno and Salt Lake City.
 But now the companies are returning to the techniques of old because lots of gold lies beneath the hills of Nevada -- more than 100 million ounces, according to the Nevada Mining Association.
The working conditions are tough, but the rewards are high for miners who have the skills and stamina to labor in tunnels 14 feet wide and hundreds of feet below the surface. The rewards are also high for the companies that hire them.
Underground mining has environmental advantages over surface mining because it tears up less land.
But the most striking development is that it is now a seller's market for workers who for decades have roamed the American West in search of work. Mining companies are scrambling to recruit people like Mr. Huhta, 46, who has 28 years of experience in underground mining, and Mr. Spring, 43, with 25 years experience mining uranium, silver and gold.
Now it is recruiters from Barrick, which is based in Toronto, who roam the West, competing for workers with underground mines operated by Newmont Gold, a unit of the Newmont Mining Corporation of Denver; Independence Mining, a unit of Minorco (U.S.A.) Inc. of Englewood, Colo., and the Getchell Gold Corporation, also based in Englewood, as well as two new mines opening next year in Nevada. "More than half the mining jobs in Nevada will be underground within 5 to 10 years," said Michael Brown, a Barrick spokesman.
"Wherever there's mining, you go," Debbie Ogden said. A single mother with three daughters, Ms. Ogden drives a front-end loader through the dark tunnels. She moved here from Yuma, Ariz., after the gold mine she had worked in shut down, and hopes to stay here for a while. "The money's good," she said. "And I'm tired of moving around. I got kids in high school, and I want them to graduate."
And Steve Long, the mine supervisor and a fourth-generation miner, said: "Nobody has worked just one place. Typically they've been all around the West." According to the Labor Department, there are 7,467 people employed in underground metal mines and 18,086 working in surface mines, extracting gold, silver, copper and iron. The Gold Institute says around 3,000 are employed in 12 underground gold mines in Alaska, Arizona, Montana, Nevada, South Dakota and Washington. Meikle has 200 of those workers.
Brent Myles, a miner at work with his brother Ernie mucking out a tunnel 1,025 feet down in the Meikle mine, said, "They're all looking for miners." The Myles brothers left northern Idaho two years ago to "hit the mines together" in Nevada after the silver mine where they worked had shut down. Brent Myles worked for Independence, Getchell and Newmont before coming to Barrick.
Underground miners, Mr. Brown said, "can pretty well write their own tickets." Average annual wages for miners in Nevada are $46,000, nearly twice the state's average wage. Surface miners make about $17.50 an hour, but underground miners make $3 to $5 an hour more.
Barrick also offers what Mr. Brown calls a "gold-plated benefits package," which includes full health, dental and vision insurance, 401(k) and pension plans, college scholarships and summer work for children of employees, and for some workers, a chance to buy discounted homes built by the company in nearby Elko. And contrary to mining's image as a high-risk calling, the recent safety record is excellent.
Barrick produces more gold than any other company in the United States, with its open-pit mine a mile from the underground mine turning out two million ounces last year. The Meikle mine is expected to produce 400,000 ounces a year for at least 15 years. The estimate of its reserves comes from a computer model that is based, among other things, on a number of sample drillings.
But gold companies must do more than produce gold to thrive on Wall Street. They must also keep finding new reserves to demonstrate that they can keep on producing it. That is why companies are going ever deeper at existing operations and exploring overseas in search of new mines. The new underground mines in Nevada, as well as discoveries and acquisitions of gold mines in South America, will help the stocks of companies like Barrick and Newmont Mining, said Amy Gassman, metals and mining analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company in New York. "Although the ups and downs in the share prices of both companies have roughly followed the vagaries of the price of gold over the last three years," she said, "we think they will continue to add to production," and she rates them both as "market outperformers."
The price of gold has hovered between $350 and $400 an ounce for more than a decade. So in evaluating gold stocks, Ms. Gassman said, analysts watch whether companies are maintaining profitability and "doing better than replacing their reserves with successful discoveries." Underground mines are more expensive to operate per ton of rock moved, she said, but the higher-grade ore found deep down more than makes up for that, actually lowering the per-ounce production costs at some underground mines.
At the Meikle mine, for instance, a ton of ore yields 0.683 ounce of gold, compared with 0.204 ounce at Barrick's Betze-Post open pit next door. As a result, production costs at Meikle are expected to be around $125 an ounce, compared with $149 at Betze-Post. In the first half of this year, the average cost of production for gold mines in the Western world was $272 an ounce.
Because it has been mining here for 10 years, since it bought the property in 1987 for $26 million, Barrick has already built the operations it needs for processing, including a mill and giant ovens for roasting the ore. The company has invested $180 million of the proceeds from its open-pit mine in the Meikle mine.
To ease working conditions underground, the company has installed a $19 million air-conditioning system, Mr. Brown said. That is, he added, "enough to cool 3,000 homes in Las Vegas in the summer" and to try to keep the sauna-like heat at a tolerable 70 degrees.
Back on the surface in an administration building after a trip underground, Andre Bourget, a senior geologist, wrote "ORE" in bright red letters on a bulletin board, indicating that miners had struck gold in a tunnel 975 feet down.
"Here on the Carlin Trend, you can't see the mineralization," Mr. Bourget said, referring to gold deposits within the ore. Although the ore in the Meikle mine is considered high grade, the gold is still invisible to the eye. So samples from the ore are tested daily, and the findings displayed for workers to see. "For the underground worker, muck is muck," Mr. Bourget said. "That's why we use this bulletin board."
About 6.7 million ounces of this "microscopic gold" are mined in Nevada each year, enough to make a solid gold cube seven feet on each side, while the 110 million tons of ore that was taken from the ground to produce that gold would make a cube longer on every side than the Empire State Building is tall. An additional 200 to 300 million tons of waste rock with little or no ore are also removed from open pits each year. That is the main reason even environmentalists agree that returning to old underground mining practices makes sense.
"The impacts are going to be substantially reduced," said Dr. Glenn Miller, a professor of environmental and resource sciences at the University of Nevada in Reno. The mines will no longer create open pits that will eventually fill with water and become sterile or contaminated lakes.
Water, however, will remain a problem in the desert, Dr. Miller said, because the underground mines must still pump ground water away to keep the tunnels from flooding. "That water has to come from someplace," Dr. Miller said, "and that will lower surface-water springs and creeks."
Less than 10 percent of American gold now comes from underground mines, said Dr. John Dobra, an economist and director of the Natural Resource Industry Institute at the University of Nevada in Reno. "But that percentage is going to go up substantially," he said.
That is good for the economy as well as the environment, Dr. Dobra said. "You're disturbing a lot less land, and it's creating high-paying jobs. A lot of people think extractive industries such as mining are a thing of the past. They may be. But while they're here, they're good for the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Barrick Gold Corporation's underground Meikle mine in Carlin, Nev., Tom Huhta and Dale Spring use a jackleg drill to install a metal brace to shore up loose rock. The mine is expected to preduce 400,000 ounces of gold a year. (Photographs by Jon Christensen for The New York Times); Returning to Mining's Roots -- For years, mining companies have extracted gold from the country's biggest reserve, the Carlin Trend in Nevada, in open pit surface mines. Now, with most of the area's remaining gold hundreds of feet underground, the companies are returning to traditional underground mining, like at the Meikle mine. (Barrack Gold Corporation)
 
Map of Nevada showing the location of Meikle Mine.
 
Charts: "Meikle Mine" shows a cross section of the Meikle Mine.
 
"Going Up" -- The number of surface gold miners is four times as great as the number who work underground. But the number working underground has increased in the last two years, while the number working on the surface has been flat. (Source: Labor Department) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (91%); ABX (NYSE) (91%); NEM (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (99%); UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); YUMA, AZ, USA (76%); RENO, NV, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP BARRICK GOLD CORP (91%); GETCHELL GOLD CORP (63%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARRICK GOLD CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; CARLIN (NEV); UNITED STATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (99%); UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); YUMA, AZ, USA (76%); RENO, NV, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; MINES AND MINING GOLD MINING (91%); MINES & MINING (90%); UNDERGROUND MINING (89%); SURFACE MINING (89%); MINE WORKERS (78%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); URANIUM MINING (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); 

PERSON: CHRISTENSEN, JON TOM HUHTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



350 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: House Freshmen Label Themselves Pragmatic

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Remember the last House of Representatives? The one whose Republican Speaker branded Democrats "the enemy of normal Americans?" The one whose Democrats seized the Speaker's chair one night and decorated it with his caricature, clad in a diaper?
Well, never mind. A new class of freshmen legislators, 74 of them at last count, came to Washington this week and declared the war over. They say voters have told them to get along with each other. They pledge to do just that. 
 Revolution, they say, is out. The new buzzwords are "bipartisan" and "pragmatic."
"There are a bunch of things to be done, and let's get on with it," said Christopher Cannon, a Utah Republican and steel-mill entrepreneur elected to his first public office.
"Go up there and make the right decisions for the country," echoed Kay Granger, the former mayor of Fort Worth and Republican claimant of a House seat once held by a Democratic Speaker, Jim Wright.
Some skepticism is permitted. Ms. Granger and Mr. Cannon, along with a vast majority of the newly elected legislators, finished their victory celebrations only last week and took their first steps on the indigo carpet on the House floor just this afternoon. They are assembling in Washington this week and next for a cram course on law-making and survival in the fishbowl of national politics. None of them will try to make a real law until sometime next year.
Still, students of Congress say the deal-cutting attitude of the newest Representatives should not be taken lightly. The last freshman class fairly exuded conservative populism, and it swept Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Congressional elders into a showdown with the White House over spending. This class, of roughly equal size, could exert as much influence in the other direction.
"The kinds of people that were motivated to run two years ago were those who wanted to turn Government upside down; they were angry for same reason voters were angry," said Norman Ornstein, the legislative analyst at American Enterprise Institute. "This time, it takes a different kind of motivation to run. Some of it comes from deeper roots."
In fact, Mr. Ornstein said his own quick study of the new freshman class shows it to have more political experience than the class of 1994, roughly half of whom had never held elective office.
For better or worse, the new class is largely made up of people steeped in more traditional politics -- people like John Peterson, a Republican veteran of 19 years in the Pennsylvania state legislature and an expert on welfare and medical issues, and William J. Pascrell Jr., the Democratic Mayor of Paterson, N.J., and Anne Northup, a Republican in the Kentucky General Assembly.
In an interview today, Mr. Peterson said Republicans in the new class agree with their firebrand predecessors on an agenda of smaller government, lower taxes and less Federal involvement in what is called family issues.
Mr. Peterson did not run as a slash-and-burn budget cutter, though, but as a "thoughtful downsizer of the Federal Government."
"I don't really disagree with the goals of the first Republican Congress," he said. "There just may have been more on their plate than the public could understand."
Mr. Peterson said the freshmen were likely to take things more slowly and with less rancor. He said that the Medicare program was in imminent economic danger and that he supported, in concept, the last Congress's proposal to cut costs and make the system more competitive.
Unlike some Republican leaders who are embittered by President Clinton's attacks on the Republican proposal this campaign season, though, Mr. Peterson said he would solve the problem by letting a bipartisan commission draft a solution that both sides can agree on. If that lets Mr. Clinton off the political hook by relieving him of responsibility for making cuts, he said, so be it.
Ms. Granger agrees. "I'm for solving it," she said of the Medicare financing problem. "Is our goal to find a solution, or is it to hold people accountable?"
One outside expert on Congress's fiscal politics, Robert Reischauer of the Brookings Institution, said he was optimistic enough about the prospects for compromise on such issues that to put the odds of a bipartisan agreement on a plan to balance the Federal budget at three out of four.
"The planets are all aligned," he said.
It evokes memories of another House that painted rosy prospects for harmony, and whose Speaker called on both parties to work together to "do things better and to reach out and to break through the bureaucracy."
"I believe there are grounds for us to talk together and work together, to have hearing together, to have task forces together," the Speaker, Newt Gingrich said, in his first speech as leader of the House, on Jan. 4, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Tierney, William Delahunt and Jim McGovern, all Democrats from Massachusetts, took a walk during a break yesterday in the first day of freshman orientation on Capitol Hill. The outcome of Mr. Tierney's race, against the incumbent Representative, Peter Torkildsen, is still in dispute. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (74%); INTERVIEWS (61%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (54%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) JOHN F TIERNEY (78%); JOHN E PETERSON (78%); JAMES P MCGOVERN (73%); KAY GRANGER (73%); CHRIS CANNON (73%); JAMES F WRIGHT (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BILL PASCRELL JR (58%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



351 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3259 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Interview With Clinton: 'Global Economy' and the U.S.

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an interview with President Clinton by The New York Times on Thursday, as recorded by the White House:
Q. You've made American engagement with Asia a very high priority in your first term, and certainly today the United States plays a much larger central economic role in the region than it did four years ago. But the flip side of that engagement, as we've seen in the past few weeks, is that the American political process has become a much greater source of interest to Asian business leaders, and much more of a target of their influence. Many of them, of course, see their future prosperity much more tied to decisions that you're making here. Does that increase in foreign contributions that we've seen concern you? And how could you really attempt to stop them at a time that, as you said yourself, the distinction between foreign corporations and domestic ones is almost meaningless? 
 A. I think that if we took the position that adults who can't vote in America shouldn't contribute -- I said that I would support amending the McCain-Feingold bill to include that -- and then either we should say that wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign corporations shouldn't be able to contribute, or at least they could only contribute out of money earned in America, out of their American earnings -- either one of those two options, I think that would reassure the American people on that score. But there are a lot of Asians who do business here who have businesses here, and who have become American citizens. And there are, just like in the case of European businesses that are heavily involved in America, there are a lot of connections and communications in an increasingly interconnected global economy. And that's the world we live in, and that's the world that I want to see America triumph in. . . .
When I became President, what I was concerned about was that, No. 1, America make the most of its relationships with Latin America -- which was the second-fastest growing part of the world, next to Asia -- our neighbors, which is why I was for Nafta and for the Summit of the Americas. And No. 2, I wanted to make sure that we did not get shut out of the emerging markets in Asia or the increasingly unified market of Europe. So that's why I supported the GATT round -- you know, the GATT agreement, and why I worked very hard to set up this Asian Pacific Economic Council as a leaders meeting, not just a ministers meeting, and why I tried to sort of increase American involvement in Asia. And so all of this kind of flows out of that. And there are a lot of people who are international business people that I have either come to know since I've been President, some that I knew before I became President, and those are folks that I met in the course of pursuing this policy.
Q. One of those people is, of course, James Riady. Do you recall, since your election as President, having any conversations with him that would be fair to call policy-related conversations? And if you did, did they touch on China or Indonesia? And did he ever bring up specific business projects or concerns like that with you in meetings since you've been elected?
A. I've seen James briefly a few times since I've been President. And I can tell you what I remember about them. I don't have any notes or anything from the conversations, but I think I have reasonable memory of it. To the best of my memory, he never talked about any specific project that he was involved in. But I knew that he was -- that his business was involved not only in Indonesia but also in China, in other parts of Asia and, of course, in the United States. I mean, I just knew that. I knew it was a big global business. I remember -- really, I've tried to think of this, you know, since all these questions came up -- I remember two things that I think you could fairly call policy related. I saw him briefly in 1993 -- I think he was just through here. You know, we had thousands of people through here in the first six months after I became President, you know, stop and say hello. And I believe he was one of a number of people who encouraged me to see President Suharto when I went to Japan. I'm not positive of it, but I think he must have been if I saw him, because there were a lot of people who were saying that, you know, you ought to see Suharto since you're going over there, since Indonesia is such a large country, and since he was at that time the head of the nonaligned nations. . . .
So I remember that I made a decision that I wanted to see -- that Suharto was going to be in Japan and I wanted to see him and have a bilateral. And a number of people urged me to do it, and I can't imagine that he was not one of them if, in fact, I saw him before that time, and I believe I did.
Then I remember he came back -- then I saw him a couple times after that. He brought his family here once to a radio address. We have, you know, any given year we have hundreds of families come in here and sit at the radio address and have their kids having pictures in the White House and all. He was in town once and did that, but we didn't have any conversation then that I remember.
And I saw him at the APEC meeting in Seattle briefly. And I saw him at the APEC meeting in Indonesia briefly, when I dropped by a reception he was having, I think for some people from the University of Arkansas Medical School, I think who were at the same time, because he kept up his Arkansas contacts. But there was no policy discussion there. Then he came here this year sometime -- just a couple months ago, I think. And we had a talk, a brief talk. I think he stayed here, I don't know, maybe 10, 15 minutes and ----
Q. Here in the Oval Office?
A. Yes. He came by and we talked, and he said that he thought I had done the right thing to extend M.F.N., and that was the right policy, and he urged me to intensify my efforts in China. He said that he thought that the only way to keep China as a constructive player in the future of Asia and to make sure it was integrated with the rest of the world, instead of in opposition or building another power bloc, was for the United States to build a working, constructive partnership. And he pointed out something that I have heard from countless other Chinese-American business leaders, which is that whether this large community of Chinese business people who are located in the United States, in Taiwan, in China, in Indonesia and a lot of other places around the world -- whether they basically identify more with Taiwan or with China in the differences between them, virtually 100 percent of them believe that the United States can do more for the cause of freedom and more for the cause of civility and more for the cause of prosperity by being engaged in China than by being isolated. . . .
Q. Has he served as a go-between between you and the Indonesian Government or the Suharto Government, or with China?
A. Not to my knowledge, no. I don't believe he has. I have conversations with hundreds of people, and I always assume that whatever I say to them they might say to someone else.
Q. But you never asked him to undertake such a liaison?
A. No, not to my knowledge. No, I mean, I did not ask him to do that. He has -- but if I said to him -- let me give you an example. I want to just -- if I said to him, I want a good, strong, positive relationship with China, and my objective is to engage China, not to isolate it -- which is something I have said to many people, mostly American citizens who do business in China, knowing that they might have contacts with people in the Chinese Government -- it would be clear to him and everyone else -- or if I said to him, I want to continue to pursue this relationship and make it ever better, I mean, it wouldn't surprise me if he said that to somebody the next time he was in China because I expect that to be done by -- I mean, a lot of times I do that deliberately knowing that it would be communicated. But that's not any different than I've done with scores of other people in similar situations involving other countries. But he's never sort of become any kind of a, you know, unofficial envoy or something like that.
Q. Your Administration decided two years ago to suspend its investigation of worker rights in Indonesia, after the Indonesian Government made some guarantees to you about improvements. There are very serious questions now about whether a number of those improvements they promised have actually been acted upon. In retrospect, do you think you were too light on Indonesia?
A. I can't answer the question in the sense that I haven't had any kind of report from that from our people over there. What I did on that was I took the recommendations of the N.S.C. They worked it through and I took their recommendations on it. When we came in the one thing I was determined to do was to find a way to promote better relations with a lot of these countries and keep those markets alive for American economic reasons -- and also for political reasons because I thought it would reduce the chances of bad things happening in that part of the world -- without abandoning America's position on human rights.
And I know that, for example, in the East Timor situation, we changed our weapons sales policy to Indonesia and we sponsored -- co-sponsored the United Nations resolution on human rights in East Timor, because I wanted us to be seen as taking a stronger position than the United States had in the past. But I wanted to do it in a way that would maximize our influence and maximize a good outcome over the long run, instead of undercut it. Now, on this particular issue I have received nothing from the N.S.C., nothing coming up through the governmental channels, to indicate that we were in error when we made the decision we made. . . .
Q. Could I ask for your judgment on the topic of whether you wished you had pressed harder in hindsight for campaign finance reform with the Congress during your first term, and whether you share the view of some of your political advisers, at least, that questions about John Huang and the D.N.C. that came to dominate the end of the campaign may have helped keep you below 50 percent in the popular vote, or keep the Democrats from winning the House back?
A. I'm absolutely certain it didn't have anything to do with winning the House back. What kept them from winning the House back is Republicans raised $150 million more than the Democrats. Apparently, they've largely escaped scrutiny for doing it, and that is -- in addition to that they had this huge number of independent expenditure communities who all raised a very disciplined coordinated effort, and we don't know how much more independent expenditure money they had than we do. . . .
In most of these close cases our candidates were outspent three to one in the last five or six days, plus they had the impact of the Christian Coalition. And they're very good in the last week anyway, their base gets out. I think that -- we can digress on the election -- I think the thing that seems to me to have depressed the turnout, one thing is that voters didn't believe that there was a race for President in which the outcome was in doubt, and that seems to have depressed turnout. . . .
In our surveys, our private surveys, I was always at 49 or 50 percent, and for like the last two months. And our people who were doing these surveys said to me, you can get over 50 percent for sure, but to do it you'll have to go to the big states you know you're going to win, but that's where the votes are, and go to these places where you generate a large turnout. For example, I went to Massachusetts, which would have a pretty good turnout anyway because the Kerry-Weld race was very much in doubt. And we went back there because we were asked to go for the Senate race. I went back to Ohio because we had a couple of House races there and because Ohio is always -- almost always the closest big state between Democrats and Republicans if it's a close race. And I wanted to make sure we won. And we increased my margin there from four years ago from two to six points.
But I stayed out of -- like I wanted to -- I stayed out of going back to Missouri, for example, where the Christian Coalition had done a lot of work and the Republicans had done a lot of work and cut our margin there. And instead, I went to New Hampshire, to Maine, to Iowa, to South Dakota. And Mark Penn told me, he says, if you do this, you run a serious chance that you could drop below 50 because in the last two days Senator Dole will be in all these states, and big states. . . .
Q. In the sense of just giving the Republicans an opening, do you regret the other part? I mean, that you didn't have a campaign finance bill in your quiver when you set out for this election?
A. Well, I regret I didn't push harder. Let me remind you, in the first two years, we passed a major budget reform which brought back the economy. We passed a major crime bill and we passed the Nafta trade bill, and we debated health care for several months. There are four huge things.
We had -- now, let me remind you -- we had a vote on a campaign finance bill in the Senate which Senator Dole and the Republicans filibustered and killed. Now, what the Democratic leaders in the House said to me was at that time, in '93 and '94, we're not all that hot for this, but we'll do this, we'll go on and do this even though any bill will probably discriminate against our members who come from very poor districts. That's what they were concerned about. But there's no point in asking us to go to the trouble and do this with all these major issues out there if you can't get by the Senate filibuster.
I mean, everybody has forgotten the fact that the Republicans were not going to permit this to become law. Senator Dole had six filibusters. And it's amazing to me that some people keep saying, if only Bill Clinton had supported these bills more, we could have passed them. No one has explained to me -- I couldn't break a filibuster on the little-bitty -- what do you call it -- the stimulus package at the beginning of our Administration when we had a Democratic Senate in Congress.
So maybe the people who believed as I do on campaign finance reform would have felt better about me -- maybe the press would have -- if I had raised more Cain about in a consistent way, you know, like once a month had a major event about it. But I don't think there is the remotest chance that this bill could have passed in '93, '94, '95 or '96. . . . I mean, I'm prepared to make any effort to pass a good bill, but the Republican Senate now has 55 members and 41 of them can cause a filibuster. So it is up to the leadership of the Senate. I do believe we can now -- I do believe now there's enough play and sort of evenness in the House of Representatives that we could pass a good bill there. I do believe we can do it. But the issue is where it has always been from the day -- at least from the day I took the oath of office and, frankly, for a few years before: Will the Senate let this bill pass, or will it be filibustered. . . .
I hope that Senator Lott and the others and Speaker Gingrich will help us on this. They did not completely shut the door in our conversations with them. I brought it up more than once in our meeting here. And I understand they have some concerns of their own, but I do believe we all have a responsibility to do more. And I'll tell you what I have determined to do. I at least am going to keep bringing this up and bringing it up and bringing it up so that the American people will know how it is being dealt with.
If I made an error in the first two years, I think it was in not just keeping it on the front burner of the debate to at least make it more difficult for them to keep filibustering it. I can do that and I will do that. I thought we had -- I really believed we were going to get a bill when Speaker Gingrich and I shook hands in New Hampshire. I thought we would get it then. But I do think now we're in a position where we can pass a bill in the House, it would be a good bill, and I think that it's now a question of whether we can stop the Senate filibuster. I think it's also incumbent on those of us who believe in this, though, to level with the American people.
The two Supreme Court decisions, Buckley against Valeo 20 years ago and this decision I guess earlier this year, weaken our ability to do what really needs to be done now, because Buckley v. Valeo says you can't limit how much people spend and you can't limit how much an individual spends on his or her own race. We can deal with that to some extent by saying that you get free air time if you adhere to certain spending limits and if you don't spend more than x-amount of your own money on a race. You can write a bill that does that, and you can do what McCain-Feingold does -- you can say you get free air time. And then, if your opponent goes above the spending limits by a certain amount, you can raise a little more; that will be better. I, frankly, don't know what the answer is to this independent expenditure problem.
In terms of the international element here, you know, whether you're talking about European cigarette companies or Asian business leaders, I think it's important -- you can measure the policies of the parties, these are all party contributions -- you can measure the policies of the parties and draw your own conclusions and report that to the American people and they can draw their own conclusions about whether the contributions are having any impact or not, or whether the contributions are just following pre-existing policies. But the really important thing here I think is to clean up the campaign finance system so that the contributions don't have to be so vast. . . .
Q. John Huang, who you had described in L.A. at your fund-raiser, was a very good friend, went to Taiwan at one point to raise money earlier this year. It was at a time that the U.S. was still in the midst of this confrontation between China and Taiwan. Do you think it's appropriate for fund-raisers from either party to be soliciting donations from overseas?
A. No. I didn't know about that. I would have counseled against that and I would have told the Democratic Party not to do it, had I known about it. Now, there are a lot of people from Taiwan that have businesses in America. They may have legitimate operations here. They may have corporations here that could legally give. But I think, and I can assure you, that none of that had any impact on what I did in the crisis.
Q. Actually, it came after the crisis and it raised the question of whether it was playing off of what you had just done.
A. Oh. See, I didn't know that. But in any case, I just don't think that's wise. And if the Republicans did it, I don't think they should have done it. I just think that we ought to finance our campaigns in America and we ought to recognize that it's a good thing we have so many Americans who are from other ethnic groups, and when they're citizens I think we ought to encourage them to contribute. I have been, as I've said before, discouraged a little bit and disappointed in the general sort of anti-Asian tenor of a lot of the rhetoric that's come out of this affair, because this country is a better country because of the Asian-American immigrants, and most of them work hard and give more than they take to any endeavor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We had a vote on a campaign finance bill in the Senate which Senator Dole and the Republicans filibustered and killed," President Clinton said in an interview. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ETHICS INTERVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ETHICS (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIADY, JAMES; HUANG, JOHN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



352 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Texaco Agrees to Settle Discrimination Suit
In the largest settlement ever in a racial discrimination case, Texaco agreed to pay more than $140 million to resolve a suit brought by employees. It also agreed to make changes in the way it does business, including a plan to turn over authority for revamping its personnel operations to a committee chosen largely by outsiders.
The settlement came after two weeks of furor following the disclosure that executives had been taped planning to destroy documents demanded in the suit and disparaging minority groups. The Rev. Jesse Jackson said that the settlement was an important first step but that for now his call for a boycott of Texaco remained in effect. [Page 1.]
 
Time Warner Seeks to Halt Satellite
Time Warner is taking its feud with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation to the skies. Time Warner is urging the F.C.C. to withhold approval of MCI's application for a license to operate a satellite in its direct broadcast TV venture with the News Corporation. [39.]
 
Time Warner is also moving into the Times Square skyline. The company's Warner Brothers unit said it would lease One Times Square, the tower that anchors Manhattan's theater district and serves as a national symbol of New Year's Eve revelry for its stroke-of-midnight ball-drop. A retail store is planned for the lower floors. [25.]
 
Industrial Production Drops
The output of the nation's factories fell by half of 1 percent in October, the first drop in seven months, as strikes at General Motors slowed production while some businesses were trimming inventories. [38.]

A Fidelity Fund Executive Resigns
Fidelity Investments, which has seen its market share stop growing and has faced investor unrest over the lagging performance of some of its top mutual funds, has lost another senior executive. Neal Litvack, who for four years had charted the rapid growth of Fidelity's retail fund business, has quit. [39.]

Near Unanimity by Fed on Rates
At their September meeting, members of the Federal Reserve's policy-making body voted 11 to 1 to hold interest rates steady, saying they were wary about an outbreak of inflation but finding little evidence that it was occurring, the minutes showed. [38.]

Bond Traders Take Gains
The Treasury market weakened as investors took profits after the strong gains this week. The 30-year bond's yield rose to 6.46 percent from 6.42 percent on Thursday. A week ago the yield was 6.50 percent. [41.]
 
Copper prices surged as a decline in stockpiles at the London Metal Exchange muted speculation that copper in unregistered Dutch warehouses would flood the market. [40.]

The dollar fell against the yen, dropping to 110.88 yen from 111.22 on Thursday, amid doubts that Japan and the United States are committed to a stronger dollar. The drop came despite comments by American, Japanese and German officials in support of the dollar. [40.]
 
Honda Sales and Earnings Surge
Honda said its earnings soared nearly 300 percent in the fiscal first half. Sales in the United States were so strong that Honda ran out of one model, the Civic, and will temporarily import Civics from Japan to augment North American production. Another Japanese auto maker, Mazda, reported improved results, too, although in its case that meant only a slim profit. [50.]
 
California Rule on Strain Injuries
California regulators approved the nation's first law intended to curb repetitive strain injuries, which afflict workers in fields from computer programming to meat packing. The measure requires many employers to provide injured workers with special training, to alter their work routines and to change their work stations or tools, if necessary. [12.]
 
New Airline Fire Rules Sought
The Transportation Department has decided to seek new rules requiring fire safety equipment in all airline cargo compartments, on the eve of hearings into the May crash of a Valujet DC-9 that some investigators say could have been prevented by such equipment. [13.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 6,348.03 up 35.03
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.46% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 110.88 yen down 0.34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); FMR CORP (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (76%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); US DOLLAR (86%); BOND MARKETS (86%); BONDS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); COPPER MARKETS (83%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (74%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); METALS MARKETS (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); THEATER (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); RETAILERS (65%); MARKET SHARE (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); JAPANESE YEN (60%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (55%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



353 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: U.S. READY TO KEEP A FORCE IN BOSNIA 18 MONTHS LONGER

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Saying Bosnia still reaps "a bitter harvest of hatred," President Clinton announced today that the United States was prepared to keep thousands of troops in the shattered Balkan nation for an additional 18 months.
Nearly one year after telling the American people that United States troops would serve in Bosnia for about one year, Mr. Clinton said he was informing the NATO alliance that "in principle, the United States will take part in a follow-on force in Bosnia" to protect the fragile peace. 
 "Quite frankly, rebuilding the fabric of Bosnia's economic and political life is taking longer than anticipated," he said. "Economic activity is only just resuming. Its pace must be quickened and its reach extended." [Excerpts, page 7.]
Mr. Clinton said this NATO mission would initially require 8,500 United States troops. He said that by the end of 1997, he expected the force to be reduced by about half, with full withdrawal envisioned for June 1998.
A year ago, 20,000 United States troops were sent to Bosnia, and the American contingent of the NATO force there now numbers 14,000.
In a White House appearance today before embarking on a 12-day trip to Hawaii, Australia and Asia, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the continued stay in Bosnia -- as well as his separate offer to contribute troops for a relief mission to Central Africa -- would not be without risk.
"I will do everything in my power to minimize the risks by making sure both missions are clear and achievable before I give the green light," he said.
He also deflected a question about his failure to name appointees to national security positions before leaving Washington. He said he wanted time to assess the full team "because it is the team that will rise or fall and will advance America's cause."
Today, with Congress out of session, the reaction on Capitol Hill was muted, although there was some criticism from both parties.
Senator Daniel R. Coats, an Indiana Republican, accused Mr. Clinton of mounting a "seat-of-the-pants, reactive foreign policy" with ill-defined goals. But he said lawmakers, who provide funds for the mission, probably would not oppose the continued Bosnia deployment.
Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat, said, "The United States continues to be drawn deeper and deeper into a situation from which we appear unable to extricate ourselves."
In an appearance before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Oct. 3, Defense Secretary William J. Perry rejected charges from skeptical Republicans that the Administration was delaying until after the Presidential election a decision to deploy more American troops to Bosnia for an extended period.
Apparently in anticipation of today's announcement, the chairman of the House National Security Committee, Representative Floyd D. Spence, issued a statement on Thursday accusing Mr. Clinton of having always planned to extend the United States deployment.
"After spending the better part of the year evading the question," said Mr. Spence, a Republican from South Carolina, "the Clinton Administration appears ready to finally own up to the fact that it was never serious about its commitment to limit U.S. involvement in Bosnia to one year."
He said conditions there suggest "the presence of significant military forces will be necessary for years."
United States officials had quietly acknowledged for weeks that the Administration was prepared to take part in some kind of continuing NATO force in Bosnia. But drawing criticism from Republicans that he was dodging the issue, Mr. Clinton made no effort to prepare the American public for this in the weeks leading up to Election Day.
Mr. Clinton said today that part of the reason he had not discussed further troop deployments to Bosnia during the campaign was because his opponent, Bob Dole, had ultimately supported the troop deployment last year. "There was not a difference of opinion on it," he said."I think it did not become more hotly debated in the campaign, and therefore it maybe wasn't focused on by as many people."
He also said NATO planning for the new mission was not complete at then. "I couldn't agree and describe a mission that had not yet been developed by NATO military planners or recommended to us," he said.
Critics of the original Bosnia deployment had said the Administration had no clear exit strategy and would be bogged down in Bosnia far longer than the year the President had promised. Mr. Clinton contended today that the original NATO force in Bosnia had fulfilled its mission of maintaining the cease-fire and allowing elections and would pull out, as scheduled, on Dec. 20.
The new force, he said, would have a more limited mandate and require fewer troops because it would not be charged with separating two hostile armies but only with keeping a stabilizing presence in Bosnia.
"The new mission's focus should be to prevent a resumption of hostilities so that economic reconstruction and political reconciliation can accelerate," he said.
Mr. Perry summed up the situation more succinctly. "The operation was a success, but the patient is still in danger of dying," he said at a Pentagon briefing.
Mr. Perry also acknowledged that the original estimate of a one-year mission had been an "error in judgment." He said the Pentagon had been correct in estimating the resistance that troops would meet and in minimizing casualties.
But he added, "I was wrong, particularly in my belief that having done those tasks, we would have established the conditions which would allow us to leave Bosnia."
He noted that war refugees had not been resettled, that municipal elections have not been conducted and that an issue left hanging in the Dayton peace accord -- the final status of the Serbian-held town of Brcko -- had not been resolved.
Gen. John Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the AMerican troops would be part of a multinational force of 31,000 troops, 5,000 of them stationed outside of Bosnia. The 8,500 American troops would all be within Bosnian borders.
After one year, the general said, the international force would be reduced to 13,500 troops stationed inside Bosnia and 9,000 in neighboring countries who could move in if needed. The United States troop contribution would drop to 5,500. The goal would be a complete withdrawal by June of 1998. General Shalikashvili said the situation in Bosnia would be assessed every six months.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children in Gornji Rahic playing with the radio of Sgt. James Baer yesterday. American peacekeepers will be in Bosnia 18 more months. (Associated Press)(pg. 7); President Clinton said the peace mission is not without risk. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); DAN COATS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



354 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT ADMITS HE AND INDONESIAN HAD POLICY TALKS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
President Clinton has acknowledged in an interview that he twice discussed policy about Indonesia and China with James T. Riady, the Indonesian financier, Democratic contributor and longtime friend of Mr. Clinton who is at the center of several inquiries into the influence of foreign money in Washington.
In a 30-minute interview in the Oval Office on Thursday evening, Mr. Clinton said Mr. Riady had never influenced policy decisions. But he also said it had been a mistake for the Democratic National Committee to send John Huang, a former employee of Mr. Riady, and, until last year, a midlevel Commerce Department official, to Taiwan to raise money for the 1996 campaigns. Mr. Huang's visit came several months after Mr. Clinton sent two aircraft carriers to protect Taiwan from Chinese military harassment earlier this year, and there has been speculation that he sought to capitalize on Mr. Clinton's action to protect the island nation. 
 Mr. Clinton said he had not known about that trip by Mr. Huang before it took place. "I would have counseled against that," he said.
Mr. Clinton's description of his relationship with Mr. Riady was his first detailed response to the accusations of influence peddling and improper campaign contributions that flared up in the last weeks of the campaign. A month ago, the White House described Mr. Riady's visits as purely social. Later, it corrected that to suggest that there had been some general discussion of China.
Today, just hours before Mr. Clinton departed for Hawaii, Australia and a summit meeting of Asian leaders in Manila, the White House released a flood of details about visits to the White House by Mr. Riady, Mr. Huang and others involved in the inquiries under way at the Justice Department and on Capitol Hill. The information, mostly about entry logs kept by the Secret Service, was released as part of the Administration's effort to quell questions of possible improprieties. The logs, the White House said, suggest that most of the visits were for briefings, receptions or meetings with midlevel officials with little connection to Asian policy issues. [Page 10.]
But the White House also said that at a meeting between Mr. Clinton, Mr. Riady and Mr. Huang in September 1995, Mr. Huang said he could better serve the President by leaving the Commerce Department for the Democratic National Committee. He did exactly that three months later, and he solicited several major donations the Democrats have since had to return because of suspicions that they came from foreign sources.
A bit more than a week after his decisive defeat of Bob Dole, and with the benefit of time to reflect on how he will deal with Republican majorities in both chambers of Congress, the President seemed somewhat sardonic when he turned the discussion to Republican fund raising. He was irked that contributions to the opposing party had "escaped scrutiny."
He disagreed with the analysis, offered by some of his own aides and Cabinet members, that news accounts of the Democratic National Committee's return of several hundred thousand dollars in illegal funds from abroad had deprived him of a popular vote of 50 percent or more and that it had cost him a Democratic majority in the House.
"What kept them from winning the House back," he said of his own party, "is Republicans raised $150 million more than the Democrats."
Looking relaxed but choosing his words deliberately as he sat in front of the fireplace in the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton seemed on several occasions to be searching his memory to recall several encounters with Mr. Riady, whom he first met when the Indonesian businessman moved to Arkansas more than a decade ago. Today, from its corporate headquarters in Jakarta, Indonesia, Mr. Riady's family runs the Lippo Group, which has banking, energy and real estate interests in Indonesia, China and the United States.
Mr. Clinton described two social encounters with Mr. Riady at summit meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. But he recalled in particular a visit to the Oval Office soon after he took office. Mr. Riady, he said, was among those "who encouraged me to see President Suharto" of Indonesia at a summit meeting in Tokyo in 1993, when Mr. Suharto was still the head of the nonaligned nations.
That meeting ushered in warmer relations between the two countries, and Mr. Clinton said he wanted "to reach out to the whole nonaligned movement and especially to the Islamic nations in it who had not given over to fundamentalism and extreme anti-Americanism."
The President said Mr. Riady had requested the meetings and brought up the policy issues himself. Interviews with Mr. Riady's associates and competitors in recent weeks suggest that the meeting may have also helped solidify Mr. Riady's standing back home with the Suharto Government, which often viewed with suspicion the conglomerates run by ethnic Chinese that control much of the nation's wealth.
At another Oval Office meeting two months ago, Mr. Clinton said, Mr. Riady congratulated him for his policy toward China, including the decision to separate China's trading privileges from human rights concerns, and he "urged me to intensify my efforts in China." The Administration will be doing that next week, in meetings between several Cabinet officials, including Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and senior Chinese officials. Those meetings will culminate in Mr. Clinton's meeting with President Jiang Zemin in Manila next weekend.
Mr. Clinton did not discuss Mr. Riady's possible motives in raising policy questions, though he said he was fully aware that the financier's corporate empire spanned many of Asia's fastest-growing economies. He said he had never used his friend as a liaison to the Indonesian or the Chinese Governments.
In the next breath, though, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that if he said to Mr. Riady "my objective is to engage China, not to isolate it, which is something I have said to many people," it was with the expectation that Mr. Riady might relate the discussion to Chinese leaders.
"I mean, a lot of times I do that deliberately knowing that it would be communicated," he said. "But that's not any different than I've done with scores of other people in similar situations involving other countries."
Asked about whether his Administration had dealt too lightly with Indonesia -- especially in the areas of workers' rights and the suppression of dissent on East Timor -- Mr. Clinton responded that he had restricted the kinds of weapons sold to Mr. Suharto's armed forces and "co-sponsored the United Nations resolution on human rights in East Timor because I want us to be seen as taking a stronger position than the United States had in the past." But he said he was unaware of growing concerns among human rights groups that Indonesia had not fully complied with several commitments to the Administration about the treatment of Indonesian workers.
"Nobody has said anything to me," he said.
Mr. Clinton talked at length about the last days of the campaign, asserting that he could have reached 50 percent of the popular vote if he had chosen to campaign differently. "Our people who were doing these surveys said to me, You can get over 50 percent for sure, but to do it, you'll have to go to the big states you know you are going to win" to insure a larger turnout, Mr. Clinton said. Instead, he said, he chose to visit places where there were close House races.
He said, "I regret I didn't push harder" for campaign finance reform in the first term, though he quickly insisted that "everybody has forgotten the fact that the Republicans were not going to permit this" to become law. "If I made an error in the first two years," he said, "I think it was in not just keeping it on the front burner of the debate to at least make it more difficult for them to keep filibustering it." But he said he would use his office to keep returning to the issue in his second term.
Mr. Clinton suggested two approaches to dealing with foreign corporate contributions: banning the American subsidiaries of foreign companies from all political donations or forcing them to "contribute out of the money earned in America." The first would result in some oddities: AT&T would be able to contribute, for example, but not M.C.I., at least if its planned acquisition by British Telecom is completed.
The second condition -- contributions from American earnings -- is roughly the current law.
Mr. Clinton said the Democratic Party needed to have "a tighter screen and checking this money as it comes in." In fact, it had such a screen in the last campaign, and it apparently abandoned the system when it was overwhelmed with contributions this year.
Mr. Clinton's harshest words for his own party came in relation to Mr. Huang's trip to his native Taiwan, which Mr. Huang said was intended to get contributions from Taiwanese-Americans doing business in both countries. "I just think we ought to finance our campaigns in America," Mr. Clinton said, "and we ought to recognize that it's a good thing we have so many Americans who are from other ethnic groups, and when they're citizens, I think we ought to encourage them to contribute."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (50%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; INDONESIA; CHINA; INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RIADY, JAMES; HUANG, JOHN BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



355 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: A CHRONOLOGY;
One Times Square: Historic Highlights

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:

1904 -- The building, known as Times Tower, is completed by The New York Times at the south end of Long Acre Square, which is renamed Times Square. The Times boasts that its building is the tallest in New York City, which is true only if several subbasements extending far underground are counted.
 
1905 -- At midnight, The Times sponsors a New Year's Eve celebration at the base of its new building. It becomes an annual rite, growing in popularity and boisterousness. 

1913 -- The Times moves its headquarters and begins transferring other operations to a larger building on West 43d Street, which it still occupies. (The company continues to own Times Tower until 1961.)
 
1928 -- The world's first Motogram, later known as the Zipper, begins operation, delivering five-foot-high flashing messages around a 360-foot-long track around Times Tower.
 
1945 -- On Aug. 14, at 7:03 P.M., with thousands crammed into Times Square, a Times electrician, Jim Torpey, embellishes one of the most historic messages to be sent along the Zipper, adding three stars -- for the United States Army, Navy and Air Force -- before and after the five-word phrase, "OFFICIAL TRUMAN ANNOUNCES JAPANESE SURRENDER."
 
1965 -- A new owner, the Allied Chemical Company, renames the building the Allied Chemical Tower, obliterates its elegant terra cotta exterior and sheaths the tower in white marble, with only the Zipper retained as a reminder of its past. Many are appalled, but supporters describe the change as the first step in the renewal of Times Square.
 
1986 -- City and state economic development officials, preparing to condemn dozens of buildings along 42d Street, Broadway and Eighth Avenue as part of the redevelopment of Times Square, consider taking title to One Times Square and tearing it down. They decide to let it stand.
 
1990 -- The Jumbotron, an oversized television screen, is hung from the north face of the building, and operates until June 1996. (A larger version is to be installed by Dec. 31.) THOMAS J. LUECK

GRAPHIC: Photos: The lighting of the new sign atop Times Tower, 1951. The Times Tower on New Year's Eve, 1953. One Times Square, 1996. (Photographs by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS STUDIOS US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARNER BROTHERS STUDIOS US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS CHRONOLOGIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); ARMIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); NAVIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



356 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Remarks by President on Bosnia and Central Africa

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a transcript of President Clinton's statement on Bosnia and Central Africa made at the White House today:
One year ago in Dayton, the leaders of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia turned from the horror of war to the promise of peace. Their historic decision came after nearly four years of horrible bloodshed, the bloodiest conflict Europe has seen since World War II; after a quarter-million deaths, after 2 million people were made refugees, after countless atrocities that shocked the conscience of the world. 
 When the Balkan leaders chose peace, I asked the American people to help them by supporting the participation of our troops in a NATO-led implementation force to secure the Dayton agreement. I promised the mission would be carefully defined with clear and realistic goals. I said it would be completed in about a year.
IFOR has succeeded beyond our expectations. As a result, its mission will end as planned on Dec. 20, and every single item on IFOR's military checklist has been accomplished. It has maintained the cease-fire and separated the parties along a new demilitarized zone.
It has monitored the placement of thousands of heavy weapons in holding areas, overseen a massive troop demobilization and the transfer of hundreds of square miles of territory from one side to another, and allowed the people of Bosnia to vote in free national elections.
That has been a remarkable achievement. In the process, we have seen how important and effective the NATO alliance remains, and we have seen the possibilities for cooperation with Russia and the other members of the Partnership for Peace.
Today the Bosnian people are far better off than they were a year ago. Their prospects for a future of peace and freedom are much brighter. Already the change in the day-to-day lives of the people there is dramatic. Marketplaces are full of life, not death. More people have roofs over their head, food on their tables, heat and hot water.
The routines of normal life -- going to work, coming home from school -- are slowly becoming a reality. Bosnia's bitter harvest of hatred, however, has not yet disappeared. For the last 12 months, the killing has stopped. And with time, the habits of peace can take hold.
This success we owe to IFOR, but its achievements on the military side have not been matched, despite all our efforts, by similar progress on the civilian side. Quite frankly, rebuilding the fabric of Bosnia's economic and political life is taking longer than anticipated. Economic activity is only just resuming. Its pace must be quickened and its reach extended.
The presidency, the parliament, the constitutional court created by the elections are still in their infancy. They need time to work. Civilian police forces must be better trained. We must complete training and equipping the Bosnian Federation military so that a stable balance of power can take hold and renewed aggression is less likely. And municipal elections remain to be organized and held.
Let me emphasize that the Bosnian people, with the help of international civilian groups, will be responsible for all this work, but for a time they will need the stability and the confidence that only an outside security force can provide.
NATO has been studying options to give them the help that time will provide by providing a new security presence in Bosnia when IFOR withdraws. That study is now complete. I have carefully reviewed its options, and I have decided to instruct the United States' representative to NATO to inform our allies that in principle the United States will take part in a follow-on force in Bosnia.
For my agreement in principle to become a commitment, however, I must be satisfied that the final recommendation NATO adopts and the operational plan it develops are clear, limited and achievable.
The new mission's focus should be to prevent a resumption of hostilities, so that economic reconstruction and political reconciliation can accelerate. That will require a strong but limited military presence in Bosnia, able to respond quickly and decisively to any violations of the cease-fire.
The new mission will be more limited than IFOR and will require fewer troops. It will not face the fundamental military challenge of separating two hostile armies, because IFOR has accomplished that task. It will be charged with working to maintain the stability that IFOR created. It will discourage the parties from taking up arms again, while encouraging them to assume full responsibility for their own security as quickly as possible. . . .
Our military planners have concluded that this new mission will require fewer than half the number of troops we contributed to IFOR -- about 8,500. There will be an American commander and tough rules of engagement. Every six months we will review the stability -- whether the stability can be maintained with fewer forces.
By the end of 1997, we expect to drawn down to a much smaller deterrent force about half the initial size. And we will propose to our NATO allies that by June of 1998 the mission's work should be done and the forces should be able to withdraw.
The United States cannot and should not try to solve every problem in the world. But where our interests are clear and our values are at stake, where we can make a difference, we, we must act and we must lead. Clearly, Bosnia is such an example.
Every American should be proud of the difference the United States has already made in Bosnia -- ending a terrible slaughter, saving thousands of lives, securing countless futures. We have a responsibility to see that commitment through. . . .
Earlier this week, I also decided that in principle the United States should take part in an international humanitarian effort to be part of a relief force that Canada will lead in Zaire. Two years ago, following genocide in Rwanda, more than a million Rwandans fled for Zaire. Recently their plight has worsened as fighting among militant forces has driven them from their camps. Violence has begun to spiral out of control, preventing relief agencies from providing food and medicine to the refugees, who are now vulnerable to starvation and to disease.
The world's most powerful nation must not turn its back on so many desperate people and so many innocent children who are now at risk. The mission Canada proposes to lead, and that I believe America should take part in, would provide security for civilian relief agencies to deliver the aid these people must have and to help the refugees who so desire to return home to Rwanda. . . .
Neither the new security force in Bosnia nor the humanitarian relief effort in Zaire will be free of risk, but I will do everything in my power to minimize the risks by making sure both missions are clear and achievable before I give the green light.
American leadership places a special burden on the men and women of our armed forces and their families. We ask a lot from them, and without fail, they deliver for us.
Now as we contemplate calling on them again, I ask us first of all to remember the astonishing job that they have done remarkably free of violence in Bosnia, and I ask that every American keep them in their thoughts and prayers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AFRICA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; RWANDA; ZAIRE; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AFRICA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); POLICE FORCES (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



357 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Texaco to Make Record Payout In Bias Lawsuit

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
In the largest settlement ever in a racial discrimination case, Texaco Inc. agreed yesterday to pay more than $140 million to resolve a Federal lawsuit brought by its minority employees.
The company also agreed to adopt a number of changes in the way it does business, including a plan to turn over authority for revamping its personnel operations to a new committee largely appointed by outsiders. Plaintiffs' lawyers in the case valued the cost of those concessions at an additional $35 million. 
 The settlement of the suit, which had been in Federal court for more than two years, came after two weeks of intense furor following the disclosure that senior company executives had been caught on tape planning the destruction of documents demanded in the suit and disparaging minority groups.
Since then there have been widespread calls for a boycott of Texaco, including one earlier this week by the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Mr. Jackson yesterday called the settlement an important step, but did not cancel the boycott. He said that he would be talking to other civil rights leaders and that a decision about proceeding with the effort could be announced as soon as today.
Civil rights leaders praised the settlement yesterday, but stressed that Texaco still had much work to do to resolve its difficulties with the minority community.
"By settling this longstanding discrimination case, Texaco has met our first demand in moving toward resolution of this matter," said Kweisi Mfume, president and chief executive of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "But I caution this is only a first step on a long path toward racial reconciliation."
Some supporters of the boycott said the settlement should be seen as an important sign of good faith.
"I think giving Texaco a little room to maneuver is appropriate," said the Rev. Charles Stith, head of the Organization for a New Equality, a national civil rights group based in Boston. "But we don't need to go to sleep and celebrate yet."
In a statement, Peter I. Bijur, Texaco's chairman, said that the company's reform efforts would not stop with the settlement. He said its goal was to become a model of equal opportunity for employees.
"Texaco is committed to developing and instituting specific, effective policies that will insure that discrimination is wiped out wherever it may be, and that will expand the positive economic impact we can have on the minority community," he said. "These policies will be clearly defined and achievable -- with measurable goals set out with specific timetables."
Employment lawyers and civil rights advocates hailed the outcome as an important precedent, one that was likely to be held up in the future in efforts to push corporations toward developing effective affirmative action and diversity programs.
"We think we have reached another historic landmark in the struggle for equal employment opportunities for minorities," said Michael Hausfeld, a lawyer for the plaintiffs.
Lawyers outside the case agreed. "This is obviously a very significant settlement, and one that should have an extremely positive impact on corporate America," said Barry Goldstein, an employment lawyer. "Unfortunately, the way to get the attention of a lot of companies to insure that they remain committed to equal employment opportunities is to have the club of a very significant judgment hanging over their head."
The settlement touches on almost every element of the company's relationship with its minority employees.
Of the cash portion, $115 million will be paid into a pool for the benefit of Texaco's minority employees. The company will also grant pay increases of about 10 percent to those employees; plaintiffs' lawyers estimated that would cost about $26.1 million over five years.
Those figures are before legal fees, so the total amount that will be received by each of Texaco's almost 1,500 minority employees cannot yet be calculated.
The company will also establish a task force to revise Texaco's human resources policies. Over a period of five years, the task force will have the authority to evaluate employment policies and practices and to develop new procedures on hiring and promoting minority workers.
Among the first efforts to be overseen by the task force will be aiding in the adoption of a diversity and sensitivity-training program, as well as a mentoring program. Diversity performance will be included in management objectives and used in determining compensation for managers. National job postings will be required for certain senior positions to insure that minority employees have the opportunity to apply.
The task force will also supervise the scrapping of a number of policies that were at the heart of the discrimination case, including practices for evaluating employees and the use of secret lists to designate which employees had the potential to be senior managers. Those policies were criticized in the lawsuit as subjective impediments to the advancement of minority employees.
"This is a task force with teeth," said Daniel Berger, a plaintiffs' lawyer. "I think it's unprecedented."
Mr. Berger said the settlement negotiations began last week, one day after The New York Times disclosed the existence of the tape recordings of senior executives discussing document destruction and criticizing nonwhite employees. The tapes were secretly recorded by a Texaco executive, who turned them over to the plaintiffs after he was forced out of the company in August.
Plaintiffs expressed deep satisfaction at the outcome. "I feel relieved," said Beri-Ellen Roberts, a senior financial analyst at Texaco. "I feel justice has been served. We have been validated."
Sil Chambers, also a senior financial analyst, said the tapes underscored the reality faced by minority employees at Texaco.
"The tapes showed there was a lot more going on at Texaco than people thought," he said.
The settlement is subject to approval by the Federal District Court in White Plains. One other potential roadblock remains: The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which enforces affirmative action programs, said on Thursday that it, not the plaintiffs' lawyers, was the representative of Texaco's minority employees and had sole power to reach a settlement.
While both sides discounted that position, the agency's chairman expressed annoyance that it was not included in the negotiations.
"Any settlement reached on behalf of the class requires court approval, and only the E.E.O.C. represents the public interest here," said Gilbert F. Casellas, chairman of the agency. "We have to weigh in; we are a critical player. And we have not been a party to the critical discussions."
Officials also said that regardless of what happened with the suit, the agency was not precluded from taking its own action against Texaco. "The interests of the agency are independent of the private interests," said Claire Gonzales, an agency spokeswoman. "So we could still file our own suit separate from the private action."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about the settlement in the racial discrimination lawsuit against Texaco Inc. misstated the surname of one plaintiff in some editions. A picture caption with the continuation of the article repeated the error in some editions. The plaintiff is Sil Chambers, not Roberts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Texaco settled a bias suit brought by employees, including Sil Chambers and Beri-Ellen Roberts. "I feel justice has been served," she said. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC CHEVRON CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BOYCOTTS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); CLASS-ACTION SUITS LITIGATION (93%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); RELIGION (68%); HISTORIC SITES (50%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996



358 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: The New Science

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottlieb; Anthony Gottlieb is a member of the editorial staff of The Economist. He is writing a history of Western philosophy.

 BODY:

THE SCIENTIFIC REVOLUTION
By Steven Shapin.
Illustrated. 218 pp. Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press. $19.95. 
 "There was no such thing as the Scientific Revolution, and this is a book about it." With this arch opening to his masterly essay, Steven Shapin wastes no time in telling us where he is coming from. He is, or so it would seem, a full member of the hip-revisionist school of historians of science. This is a gang of sociologists and near sociologists -- now somewhat mellowing with age -- who investigate science as a cultural and political phenomenon, and who sometimes leave the impression, or even explicitly assert, that it is nothing more than that. The idea that science also happens to uncover truths about nature is, by the lights of this school, distinctly uncool. And so, therefore, is the idea that science began to uncover them at a rapidly accelerating rate in the late 16th and 17th centuries, the period that conventional historians know as the Scientific Revolution.
But the hip-revisionist stance is only a pose for Mr. Shapin, a professor of sociology at the University of California, San Diego, and he does not strike it for very long. It soon emerges that he does not believe his own first sentence and that he is in fact quite happy with the idea that Galileo and Newton took part in what can fairly be described as a revolution. The revisionist influence leaves its mark only in an occasional turn of phrase (as when he speaks of some scientific facts as being "made" rather than discovered) and in his inclusion of some background material that a more austere generation of historians regarded as scientifically irrelevant. Nowhere does Mr. Shapin follow the more extreme of his colleagues in allowing a sociological perspective to distort the story he has to tell. Instead, that perspective enriches it.
As Mr. Shapin notes, it was not until the late 1930's that historians began to speak of "the Scientific Revolution." He cites several reasons for believing that this coinage was a misnomer. The gist of the revisionist argument on this point is that close examination reveals no precise, datable event when the world changed, no one "essence" of the supposedly new way of investigating nature and no well-defined subject area at the time that could be called "science." All true, and all economically established in this book. But so what? Anyone who infers from such considerations that there was no such thing as the Scientific Revolution is open to the charge that he cannot see the forest for the trees.
Actually, Mr. Shapin can see the forest all right; he is just sometimes curiously unwilling to call it one. For example, although he insists that what is called a revolution had no "essence," his concluding section focuses on a theme "that has run throughout this narrative and that connects our understanding of the Scientific Revolution" -- whoops, he said it -- "to some fundamental categories and evaluations of our present-day culture." This theme is the "depersonalization" of nature, which he earlier glosses as "the growing separation between human subjects and the natural objects of their knowledge, especially as evinced in the distinction between mundane human experience and views of what nature 'is really like.' " As Mr. Shapin explains, this idea of science as the reliable product of disinterested and dispassionate inquiry went hand in hand with the idea that such knowledge could be a tool for improving the human lot. This new way of looking at science and the world began to flower in the 17th century, and it marks the biggest difference between modern science and its ancient and medieval antecedents. If you are not too fussy, you might call it the essence of the Scientific Revolution.
Mr. Shapin's narrative picks out four related aspects of what at the time was often referred to as "the new philosophy." First, the conception of nature as a machine. Second, the conception of natural knowledge as something more objective than everyday experience. Third, the effort to make science methodical and impartial. Fourth, the hope that it could thereby serve beneficial social and political ends. His first chapter, entitled "What Was Known?," is a crisp encapsulation of the mechanistic science of Galileo and his successors in the 17th century, ranging from Galileo's assault on the Aristotelian world picture to Newton's attempts to paint a new one. This is well done, and always useful to be reminded of. How many readers of today's popular-science books, uncomprehending in the latest speculative arcana of physics, have a grasp of the basic historical foundations of the subject? They are unlikely to find a better-informed or more digestible crash course in what they need to know than Mr. Shapin's first 50 pages here.
HIS next chapter -- "How Was It Known?" -- deals with the methods of acquiring and establishing scientific knowledge. This nuanced account draws partly on the materials of Mr. Shapin's earlier academic studies, which covered Boyle's vacuum experiments and the question of why fellow scientists and some laymen were content to trust their colleagues' report of such work. Delving into the details of how experimental results and new theories were put together and then evaluated by others can be dangerously misleading. It can easily give the erroneous impression that such results are necessarily less impersonal and objective than they pretend to be. But when skillfully done, as it is here, this style of historical writing is benign and fascinating.
The final chapter -- "What Was the Knowledge For?" -- mostly tells us about how the advocates of the new science saw their creation and what they hoped to get out of it. Much of this part of the story is tied up with religion in one way or another. We see the new institutions and practices of 17th-century science eating into the fabric of the church-dominated educational structures left over from medieval times. We see the discredited idea that nature acts for a purpose become transformed into the idea that nature is a machine that, although acting blindly itself, was nevertheless designed by a God for His own purposes. And we see wild new hopes that man is on the brink of restoring the dominion over nature that he lost at the Fall of Adam and Eve. Most readers will conclude that there was indeed something dramatic enough to be called the Scientific Revolution going on, and that this is an excellent book about it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SCIENTIFIC REVOLUTION, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS SOCIOLOGY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, ANTHONY; SHAPIN, STEVEN (PROF) STEVEN SHAPIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



359 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7291 words

HEADLINE: The Big Man Can Deal

BYLINE: By Lynn Hirschberg; Lynn Hirschberg is a contributing writer for the Magazine. Her last article was about Burt Reynolds.

 BODY:
MICHAEL JORDAN, DRESSED IMPECCABLY in a gray suit, royal blue polo sweater, no socks and two-tone loafers, is sprawled elegantly in a chair at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan. He appears to be back-lit -- he has that movie-star glow. The usual all-pro assortment of people (trainer, friend from college, family member, Ahmad Rashad) are milling about, and David Falk has just arrived. Falk is Jordan's agent, as well as the agent for Juwan Howard, Patrick Ewing, Alonzo Mourning and a dozen other National Basketball Association stars, including the latest college sensation to enter the pros before finishing college, the 76ers' Allen Iverson. Falk, 46, is tall, though not N.B.A. tall, and looks like some sort of very determined bird. He seems to be concentrating -- surveying the terrain, considering the options. "I went over to see my best friend this morning," Falk says.
"What did she look like?" Jordan jokes. 
 "No, really," Falk persists. Jordan just smiles.
Jordan is in New York to promote his fragrance, a joint venture with the designer Bijan. There are bottles all around the room. This cologne, named simply Michael Jordan, is a longtime dream come true, one of Falk's many nonbasketball business deals for the basketball players he so successfully represents. Obtaining multimillion-dollar contracts for your clients is the foundation of any sports agent's job, and Falk is known to be a tough negotiator, with both the N.B.A. and, off the court, with Nike, Reebok and others. Like Leigh Steinberg, the football agent who does the bidding for nearly every quarterback in the N.F.L. (and who is the model for Jerry Maguire, the sports agent Tom Cruise will play in the movie of the same name, opening next month), Falk has market share. Since he controls a large block of top players, he can, in many ways, dictate the structure and the economics of the entire league. Falk is considered the second most powerful person in the N.B.A., after its Commissioner, David Stern.
"Falk has massive leverage," says the general manager of one N.B.A. team who didn't want his name used for fear of angering Falk. "If he just had Michael, he would be considered a marketing genius, which he is. But David represents so many players that he is a major force. He pretty much gets what he asks for."
Falk has used the big contracts he has secured for Jordan and others to lure younger players like Iverson. But it's the off-the-court deals that separate him from the pack. With Jordan, Falk redefined the marketing possibilities for an athlete. "Michael has transcended sport," Falk likes to say. "He is an international icon."
More than anything else, Falk understands potential. He can look at a player or a company and see the possibilities. His timing is also good -- Jordan's emergence as a basketball god coincided with the rebirth of the N.B.A. as the game to watch. One fed the other and Falk seized the opportunity. "In my business," he says, "I'm not a point guard, I'm a shooter. My job is to be aggressive. I'm going to make the shot. I may miss three or four in a row but I'm going to make the shot. It's hard to decompress from that and be 'aw shucks.' That's just not who I am.
"I spent seven years talking to people about cologne," Falk continues. Falk knew that cologne was an extremely lucrative business. The scent itself costs very little to produce; the main expense and hard work is in the marketing. Falk didn't have trouble convincing Jordan. "I've always had ambitions about doing this," Jordan says. "I take fragrance and fashion very seriously."
Falk nods. "It was hard," he says. "It was exactly like when he came out as a rookie and we tried to sell him to McDonald's. The cologne people would say, 'I know he can sell shoes and hamburgers, but he's not a designer: he can't sell cologne.' I said: 'Why not? The guy's an arbiter of fashion.' "
Jordan smiles. "I told him I didn't believe he could do it," he says. "A lot of things he believes he can do and I don't believe him."
Falk laughs. "Michael knows how competitive I am," he says. Competitive, but careful. For years he kept Jordan away from the movies. "We got piles of scripts," he says. "But they didn't fit Michael Jordan. He can't really act. And you have to know your limitations."
Falk himself came up with the idea of Bugs Bunny and Jordan teaming together in a feature film and then sold Warner Brothers on the concept. The result was "Space Jam", which opened this weekend. The deal was complicated. Falk didn't really know anyone in the movie business, but he was friendly with Dan Romanelli, the head of Warner Brothers' worldwide consumer-products division. Romanelli walked Falk through the studio hierarchy until he met with the studio heads, Bob Daly and Terry Semel. At the end of 1993 they hosted a party for Jordan and the deal for the movie was set in motion. "It was all based on a relationship," Falk says. "Michael gives you access to so many worlds. The challenge is in marrying entertainment and sports. It's not just talking about synergy and all the theoretical B-school mumbo jumbo."
Jordan smiles. He knows this is Falk's favorite theme -- how his game is bigger than basketball. "Does that mean I can tell Jerry Reinsdorf you won't be making my deals anymore?"
Falk laughs. "Just wait. I've got some ideas"
Jordan smiles. "No doubt," he says. "No doubt."
 FALK'S OFFICE IS IN WASHINGTON, A hotbed of sports agents, and is filled with mementos of his deals: autographed balls and Wheaties boxes and Patrick Ewing's size-13 sneakers and a framed poster for "Space Jam." It's around 4 on a July afternoon, a few days before the N.B.A. free-agent signing period is set to begin, and Falk, who is snappily dressed in a gray suit, a crisp white monogrammed shirt, tasseled loafers and a bright orange patterned tie, is on the phone with Bernie Bickerstaff, the owner of the Denver Nuggets, trying to explain -- calmly, persuasively -- why Dikembe Mutombo, Denver's star center but now another Falk free agent, is worth $55 million.
Of course, Falk doesn't exactly say this number. He hints at it, he talks around it. To negotiate before the signing period in any way would be illegal, but there's no harm in creating a mood, an expectation. "Protect your assets," Falk says into the receiver. "You've got to protect your assets." Falk knows that Bickerstaff will be able to decipher his barely coded message.
On the phone with Bickerstaff, Falk is at his most convivial. To him, this is a big game. He vehemently opposes the N.B.A. salary cap system, which gives each team a set amount of money with which to pay their players. From that total, they can allocate funds in any configuration. There is one big exception to the cap rule: under the so-called "Bird Rights" (named for Larry Bird, the Boston Celtics great who forced the issue), a team is allowed to pay any of their own players any size salary increase without affecting the cap. Meaning, Bernie Bickerstaff and the Denver Nuggets can pay Dikembe Mutombo a fortune -- say, $55 million -- if they so desire. Or, in all likelihood, they will lose him to the open market.
"I'm a nut about loyalty," Falk says into the phone. "Protect your assets," he repeats. "That's the cardinal rule."
Falk then decides to tell Bickerstaff a story, a kind of parable. "Last week, we went to Chicago to see Michael," he begins. "He can't really go out to a restaurant, and we wanted to talk, so we rented a suite at the hotel for dinner so there would be privacy. Michael looked at the wine list and he said, 'There's no good wine on this menu.' The most expensive bottle of wine was $150 a bottle. So we call for the wine list from the restaurant downstairs, and Michael orders two bottles of wine. That wine cost $650 a bottle. We had dinner, talked, it was great. Now, that meal and the room and the trip probably cost me $5,000. You might say that's a lot for dinner, but it was worth it. I spent the money, which is a lot of money, because you always protect your assets."
After hanging up, he says, "I like Bernie very much, but it's very hard to be friends with people when you're asking them for millions of dollars." Falk smiles slightly.
Falk prides himself on planning carefully and getting it done right. He inherited this, he says, from his mother, who died in 1988 of cancer. She was, in many ways, the driving force behind Falk's ambition. "She was a perfectionist," Falk recalls. "She expected excellence." His parents were an odd match; Falk's father owned two butcher shops on Long Island and his mother had two master's degrees and spoke six languages. "They were oil and water," Falk says.
In 1972, Falk graduated from Syracuse with a degree in economics. While attending law school at George Washington University, he started working at ProServ, a large Washington-based sports agency. ProServ, which is still run by its founder, Donald Dell, is mostly known for representing tennis players. Basketball, 25 years ago, was a minor part of ProServ's business; it was a team sport and even the stars of the game were not considered appropriate as spokesmen for non-sports-marketing campaigns. That was for the McEnroes and Nicklauses. With a basketball player, ProServ, like most sports agencies, would typically negotiate the N.B.A. contract, maybe get a shoe company involved and pretty much leave it at that. "The teams were famous," Falk explains. "There were great players, but basketball was perceived by companies to be about the team. Not the individual."
When Falk met Michael Jordan, he decided to change the landscape. What seems so ridiculously obvious today -- that Michael Jordan is one of the greatest cross-cultural, international, megawatt stars of all time -- was not nearly as clear in 1984. Jordan went third in the draft when he graduated from North Carolina; he was playing for the Chicago Bulls, then a mediocre team, and he wasn't white, which made him a harder sell to companies. "It wasn't easy," Falk says. "That was the challenge. It's hard to sell an Afro-American. A few years ago, Doug Williams was quarterback of the Washington Redskins, the first Afro-American quarterback to win a Super Bowl. I called him to see if we could represent him. He said he didn't need an agent, that he'd wait for the offers to come in. He's still waiting. Very few companies call for athletes, and even fewer call for black athletes.
"When Michael was a rookie, I would approach companies and they would say, 'David, what on earth are we going to do with a black basketball player?' And I said, 'Don't black people use your product?' "
Falk pushed. It was Falk who came up with "Air Jordan" and took the idea to Nike, eventually convincing them of it. Still, Nike insisted on several outs in its initial contract with the player. The shoe line could be dropped if certain sales figures weren't met and if he didn't make the All-Star team in his first three years. In 1985, the Air Jordan sneaker earned Nike $100 million. After that, everything changed.
"With Michael, I've created a Frankenstein of sorts," Falk claims. "In 1984, Rod Thorn, the general manager of the Bulls, said: 'What are you trying to do? Make this guy a tennis player?' And I said, 'Exactly.' He's not just another one of 12 homogenous guys. He's different. And now everybody wants to be like Mike."
Falk's marketing plan for Jordan attracted other players. He was a magnet and, like all sports agents, Falk receives 4 percent of a client's salary and an agreed-upon percentage, usually greater than 4 percent, of the player's marketing revenues (at ProServ, Jordan gave 20 percent). Sports agents, unlike Hollywood agents, also function as business managers.
But like Hollywood, sports is a business based on reputation and relationships. Agents need to be on good terms with the top college coaches. For instance, it was Donald Dell, Falk's boss at ProServ, who arranged the Jordan signing. Dell, a former tennis player who is smooth where Falk can be abrasive, had a close relationship with the also-smooth Dean Smith, Jordan's coach at North Carolina. (Just as John Thompson, the coach at Georgetown and a Falk client, urged Patrick Ewing, Alonzo Mourning and Allen Iverson to sign with Falk). "David did most of the talking at that first meeting," Jordan recalls. "But, quite honestly, he didn't talk about marketing. There was really nothing to talk about. That was the beauty of it -- there weren't any parents to follow."
By 1992, Falk, who had always clashed stylistically with Dell, decided to leave ProServ. It was a messy divorce. Falk arranged a leveraged buyout of ProServ's basketball division, which he ran, and started FAME (Falk Associates Management Enterprises). There were those who questioned Falk's management skills -- he can be abrupt and overly aggressive -- but there was never any question about his prowess as an agent. "I know I'm an acquired taste," Falk says. "But when I'm signing someone, I always say: 'Do you want me to massage your ego? Or you want me to massage your wallet?' And most of the time, they'd rather you'd massage their ego. But, in the end, it's their wallet they really care about."
Leaving ProServ seemed to further motivate Falk. All his clients, including Jordan, joined him at FAME, and he started to reinvent himself. He was underpaid at ProServ, he says; at FAME his income soared. ("I'll pay more in taxes this year than I earned working at ProServ for 17 years combined," he says.) Falk repackaged himself -- upgrading his wardrobe (Jordan likes to tell a story of a thief breaking into Falk's rental car, when he worked at ProServ, rifling through the bags and stealing everything but his clothes) and renting a posh suite of offices. He always had a master plan; sneaker deals are nice, but just as Jordan is no longer perceived as simply the best basketball player in the world, Falk wanted to be viewed as more than just an agent. As he sees it, he has recast the sport. "Now the N.B.A. is like having corporations on the court," he says. "And that's my contribution. No one even steps up and says: 'You're a pioneer. We owe you a debt of thanks.' I say that to David Stern, but nobody says that to me. There's always something to criticize -- I have too much power or too many clients. I scoff at that. Think about it: If you lived on a block with $300,000 houses and you sold yours for $2.5 million, your neighbors would thank you. But in my business they don't. That used to make me angry. Now I'm just amused."
 T'S THE DAY. THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1996. THE biggest ever free-agency signing period has begun, and having reached an agreement about Jordan's new contract quickly ($30 million for one year), the main drama is whether or not Juwan Howard will remain with the Washington Bullets. The Bullets are a young team, led by its two forwards, Chris Webber and Howard, a solid second-year player vital to their lineup. Unfortunately for the Bullets, Howard is arguably the most sought after free agent in the N.B.A. Two years ago, he was forced, as all rookies are, to sign with the team that drafted him. It was a low-ball contract, Falk felt, but it had a two-year escape clause. "The Bullets stripped Juwan of his dignity," Falk says. "And that's something you should never do."
So the Howard negotiation is, in many ways, payback. Falk made it clear in the media that he believes Juwan is worth at least $15 million to $20 million a year. Due to the Bird Rights, the Bullets can pay him any amount, without affecting the salary cap. "We'll see if they do the right thing," Falk said before the negotiations began. "Juwan is theirs to lose."
The previous morning, the Bullets had staged a parade ("We Love You Juwan") on the street below Falk's office and a week earlier had taken out an ad in The Washington Post soliciting donations to Howard's charitable foundation. As a courtesy, the Bullets were the first team to pitch to Howard. On paper, Washington lacks certain "intangibles" that Falk and his associates favor. The team doesn't have a private jet for the players; they are building a new arena, but it isn't ready yet, and they aren't in a state with no state taxes, like the Miami Heat. But Howard has made roots in the Washington community, and he and Chris Webber played together at the Univerity of Michigan. "Juwan wants to stay," Falk says before the negotiations begin. "This is his home."
So, today, Juwan put on a suit and sat on the blue-leather couch in Falk's office, and he and his agents listened to the Bullets' proposal. "I listened and I wanted to cry." Howard said later. "I kept thinking, Why does this keep happening to me?" The Bullets offered $11.2 million a year, far below the $15-$20 million Falk had earlier suggested to a Washington Post reporter. "That was a channeled communication to the Bullets," Falk says. "And they ignored it."
Howard was hurt, but there were other pitches to console him. The Knicks talked about corporate opportunities and reaffirmed their allegiance to Ewing, but they didn't want to be used as a strongman to make anyone else's deal and wouldn't give a number. Pat Riley, the Miami coach, talked about winning ("The man is consumed by winning," Falk says with awe) and about Alonzo Mourning, the Heat's outstanding center. Miami is a very rich club, with lots of "intangibles" to dangle. Riley's pitch reflected that sense of largess and generosity. Detroit made a presentation, and other teams were phoning with proposals for Howard, but he was still interested in the Bullets. "We decided to give them another chance," Falk says.
On Friday, while Riley waited in his D.C. hotel room (conveniently located in the same mall-office complex that houses FAME), Falk, his partner, Curtis Polk, and Howard drove up to the home of Abe Pollin, the Bullets' owner. They sat and talked and Pollin disappointed Howard again. "Not that much changed," Falk says. "If you look at the whole scenario -- the parades and the press -- the Bullets provided a lot of sizzle but no steak. They made another low offer. That made the decision easy."
Early Saturday morning, not long after midnight, Howard decided to play for Miami. Falk had his own competition going -- he wanted Howard to be the highest-paid player in his rookie draft class. In the end, he made it look easy: Howard signed a $101 million contract for seven years. "I had numbers in my mind for months," Falk says. "What I supplied was the vision. I translated Juwan's efforts into this deal."
It's a huge contract. The next-closest players in Howard's rookie class are Glenn (Big Dog) Robinson, who will receive $68 million over 10 years from the Milwaukee Bucks, and Grant Hill of the Detroit Pistons, who is earning $54.6 million for nine years. There's some history there: Grant Hill is the one player to turn pro in the last few years that Falk really wanted to sign but couldn't quite entice. "Grant Hill is the one who's most like Michael," he says, rather remorsefully. "He had the most potential to be Michael the second time around. His agent, Tom George, told me, 'We basically copied the Jordan blueprint.' It's ironic that Hill didn't pick the guy who created the blueprint! But he didn't opt to."
When the Howard deal is set, Falk is clearly pleased. Unlike everyone else in his office, he looks crisp and rested. "He thrives on this stuff," says Polk. "When I go home, I go home. When David goes home, he's still working."
There is little time to celebrate. Atlanta is calling every few hours about signing the Nuggets' Mutombo, and there are 10 or so other deals pending. But Falk can't resist. "Juwan is the highest-paid forward in the history of basketball," Falk says, while the phones ring. "He's making more money than David Robinson. He's making more money than Olajuwon."
Polk, who is listening, laughs. "He's making more money than God!"
Falk smiles. "Oh no, not yet," he says . "We'll save that for Michael."
 FOUR DAYS LATER, JUWAN HOWARD, WHO sports a Vandyke beard and mustache combination and is unflaggingly polite ("You look lovely as always," he coos to Falk's receptionist, taking her hand) bounds into Falk's office, looking for a change of clothes. He is not alone. Howard has shown up with an entourage of three. They are all wearing baggy sweats or baggy jeans. "I need my suit," Howard tells Falk, who embraces Juwan. "Gotta dress up for Riley."
Falk and Polk and Howard are flying down to Miami in an hour. The Heat have sent their private jet and a news conference is scheduled for later this afternoon. Falk is pleased. Nearly all the big deals are set: Alonzo Mourning re-signed with the Miami Heat for $105 million; Kenny Anderson, another client, is set to leave the Charlotte Hornets and sign with the Portland Trail Blazers for just under $50 million, and Dikembe Mutombo left Denver, who did not make the offer Falk had hoped, and signed a deal with the Atlanta Hawks for $55 million. "It's a great feeling," Falk says. "It's been an incredible six days."
While Howard is preparing to address the media, Rex Chapman, another Falk client, is sitting at home in Kentucky, waiting for the phone to ring. The son of a pro basketball player, Chapman was known as the "Boy King" when he played for the University of Kentucky. "He could have run for governor," Falk says, "and he probably would have won." He went pro in 1988 after his sophomore year and immediately signed with Falk. "I wanted somebody who would take care of the business part of my career," Chapman says. "I didn't want a baby sitter. If that's what you're looking for, Falk is the wrong person. He has a lot of clients and he's very busy."
Chapman's first contract was with the Charlotte Hornets for $2.6 million, and then in 1994 he was traded to the Miami Heat. "He played very well last year," Falk says. "There was no reason why they wouldn't sign him to a new contract."
But cap economics got in the way. After the Howard and Mourning deals were done, Riley felt he had to nail down other players, including Tim Hardaway of the Heat for $10 million. In all the signings, Rex Chapman's new deal was ignored.
"Things got very screwed up in Miami," Chapman says. "They told me they wanted me back. They made a couple of offers prior to Juwan signing, and I turned them both down."
Falk had felt that Riley was making low-ball offers to Chapman and encouraged him to wait. "Sometimes," Chapman says, "to get what you want you have to walk away from it." He pauses. "My situation is a prime example of how this salary cap is a bad deal. The league knows that I can play. And yet I'm still not signed."
Falk was frustrated and angry over Chapman's situation. He had spoken to Riley before the free-agency signing period began and the coach had assured him that the team wanted Chapman. "Out of respect for Riley, we didn't leverage a deal," he says. "He gave me his word that he would take care of Rex. If he hadn't, we would have said, 'We don't want to talk about Juwan until we do Rex's deal.' But out of respect for Pat, we didn't do that and we didn't exercise the maximum leverage we could have brought to bear. We understood what our leverage was and we didn't exploit it. And I regret that we didn't exploit it."
It could be argued that this is a drawback of signing with an agent who represents so many top players; their deals will always take precedence over more modest contracts. Back in Kentucky, Chapman worked out every day and watched and waited while players like Oliver Miller, the veteran center, left $2.8 million on the table, played the free-agency market and came away without offers. Miller eventually signed with Toronto for the league minimum, $247,500. Walt Williams, another veteran center, "got out of a two-year deal worth $6 million and will probably end up with the minimum," Chapman reports. "Once the team's cap dries up, they just don't have the money."
Just today, an hour ago, Riley made Chapman another offer. It was still low. "Riley felt that Rex wouldn't have his heart in the team," Falk says. "There's so much scar tissue. This is hard. We're not going to create Air Chapman at this point. Or get him a rap record. We just want to get him a job."
Falk stares a second. Howard is in Falk's office changing clothes and Falk has retreated to a conference room. He's just hung up with Chapman, who turned down Riley's latest offer. Falk hates this situation. He has genuine affection for Chapman and he feels he let a team get the best of him. It's a power move he lost, and Falk is as competitive as his players. "You have to get over the tug of war inside of you," he says. "You're great at what you do but, at the same time, you want these people to like you. And it doesn't work. In hindsight, I should have put on the gloves and leveraged Miami to death because of Alonzo and Juwan. I think I let Rex down."
 IN MID-JULY, WHEN THE first round of free-agency signing was over, Falk took his wife, Rhonda, and two daughters, Daina and Jocelyn, on a four-week trip to Europe and Israel. The trip was a bat mitzvah present for Daina, and even when the league delayed first once and then twice the start of the free-agent signing, Falk maintained that he was leaving for Europe on July 19, whether the deals were finished or not.
A couple of weeks into the trip, Falk received a call from Curtis Polk saying that there were problems with Juwan Howard's contract with the Miami Heat, that the league had questions about the deal. The N.B.A. felt that there wasn't room under the cap for Miami to sign Howard for $101 million. Suddenly, Juwan was a free agent again.
It was complicated. Polk, who sprang into action, immediately checked to see if Howard was, technically, still part of the Bullets' organization. If so, his Bird Rights could apply -- the Bullets could make Howard another offer, over and above the cap. Falk decided to stay in Europe, and Polk had Howard, who was upset at suddenly finding himself without a contract or a team, fly to Washington. The weekend of Aug. 10, Howard and Polk sat in front of the TV watching rhythmic gymnastics while the N.B.A. officials came to a decision about his free-agency fate.
It was probably smart to have Polk handle the Heat-Howard-Bullets mess. The heads of the N.B.A. resent and, in some cases, actively dislike, David Falk. They view him as opportunistic, self-serving and boastful, and they like to needle him when they can. "Last year, at the All-Star Game, we gave Falk really bad tickets," says one N.B.A. executive. "Stern knew about it and he thought it was funny."
The N.B.A. feels Falk has a disproportionate amount of power. He controls a block of players and those players can make or break a team. The N.B.A. would like to own that right; they do not want any one entity to have Falk's muscle.
This conflict became particularly virulent a year ago when Falk and a group of "dissident players," made up of top Falk clients like Jordan, Ewing and Mourning, challenged the collective bargaining agreement reached by the players' union and the league, of which the salary cap is a key component. Falk and company sought to decertify the union, thereby abolishing the agreement.
To counteract Falk, the league filed charges of unfair labor practices against him. The Commissioner, Stern, was angry; he felt Falk was overstepping the boundaries of an agent. If the Falk side had won, if the union had been decertified, it might have delayed the start of the N.B.A. season. Falk maintains that he did not initiate the attempted coup. "I didn't in any way suggest it or recommend it," he said at the time. "But once it was put on the table, it seemed like a brake on a railroad train that was speeding through the station and was going to run over the players."
Eventually, the N.B.A. prevailed and the salary cap was passed. Falk was disappointed. He still respects David Stern, but the two men keep their distance. Polk, meanwhile, has less history with the heads of the N.B.A. The financial whiz behind FAME, Polk manages the players' portfolios and helps them stick to a budget, as well as negotiating deals. Polk has a straightforward, almost blunt manner that is oddly comforting. "Curtis will always tell you the truth," says Michael Jordan. "I'm like the doctor with a terrible bedside manner," Polk says. "I'll cut through all the junk and say: 'Sorry. You had a bad year. You are not getting a job in the N.B.A.' "
Polk was considerably gentler with Howard, who was worried about where he would end up. And for how much. "Based on what was transpiring with Miami and Washington," Polk says, "we had the most leverage of anyone in the history of sports. When the Bullets lost Juwan, the publicity was so intense. If they got the rights back and didn't sign him because of money, the league would have been angry and the city would have been angry. They had to step up."
And they did. In the end, the Bullets agreed to $105 million for seven years. But there was a struggle. Before the weekend of Aug. 10, Miami got an injunction against Howard and the league. "That was very bad,"Polk says. "For a team to sue the league goes against everything that the N.B.A. stands for."
Yet, by 2 P.M. on Monday afternoon, Howard and the Bullets had come to an understanding. When it looked like they had a deal, Polk excused himself from the meeting and called Riley. "I said, 'Pat, we're going to sign a contract with the Bullets.' He was upset. And I know there will be a point where I'm going to really need the Heat to sort of err a little bit in our favor and they're going to bludgeon me over the head with what happened with Juwan. But, that's our business."
Riley was furious and loud. With the loss of Howard, he saw a championship slip away, and he was not quiet about his rage. "I spent the weekend at my proctologist's trying to remove the N.B.A.'s 17-foot pole out of my rear end," he said on ESPN. His anger mostly centered on the N.B.A. -- after all, it had pulled the strings -- but Riley also took issue with Howard's agents. Shouldn't they have been loyal to their initial deal? "We're pro-player," insists Polk. "We work for Juwan Howard. Not the league. Not the teams. We always make the best deal for the player."
So, on Aug. 12, a month after he flew to Miami and shook Pat Riley's hand and said how thrilled he was to be a member of the Miami Heat, Juwan Howard addressed the media in Washington. He thanked God and said how he had always wanted to stay with the Bullets and how lucky he was to receive another chance. "I did not want to make it a money issue," he said later. "I wanted to see that I was appreciated."
IT'S 10 ON A THURSDAY morning in October, and Allen Iverson, 1996's No. 1 college draft pick and now a Philadelphia 76er, has just arrived at Reebok headquarters in Stoughton, Mass., outside Boston. Iverson is six feet tall and slight, with beautiful almond-shaped eyes, a sweet, telegenic smile and a tattoo on his left biceps that reads, "The Answer." He has a large diamond in his left ear and a thick gold chain with an equally thick cross hanging around his neck, and he is dressed in head-to-toe black-and-white Reebok athletic wear.
During the two years Iverson played for Georgetown, he averaged 23 points a season. He is small but fast; he set a school record with 124 steals. Iverson has a cloudy history. Three years ago, when he was 18, he was convicted of three felony counts of mob violence in a bowling-alley fracas that took place in his hometown of Hampton, Va. He was sentenced to five years in prison but was furloughed after four months by Gov. L. Douglas Wilder with the rather major stipulation that he not play basketball in his senior year of high school. Two years later, an appeals court overturned Iverson's conviction on the basis of insufficient evidence. At Georgetown, he cleansed his reputation. Iverson was a model citizen, humble and utterly devoted to the game.
Today, he is visiting Reebok for an all-day planning session. As Iverson walks through the doors, hundreds of Reebok employees are waiting to welcome him. The entrance of this nondescript building is a three-story atrium and employees are standing on every balcony. There are banners and balloons and a camera crew to record the event. When Iverson arrives -- Falk is already upstairs, having driven to Reebok with the president of the company -- the crowd breaks into applause. Iverson autographs some balls and a few pictures, and then Roger Best, a senior vice president of Reebok, makes a speech. "Allen, I think they like you," he says to a roar of applause.
Iverson heads upstairs to a conference room that overlooks the parking lot. There is an Asteroids video game in the corner, and Falk and various Reebok representatives are gathered around a blond wood table. They are here to strategize, to map out Allen Iverson's persona for the next 10 years. This is Falk's favorite arena -- he loves marketing. "I don't feel like I'm a plumber," he says. "I want to be an artist. I want to change the landscape. Marketing is creative.
"I don't want to manufacture Allen Iverson; I want to shape him. There's a talent to understanding where it has to go and how it has to fit together. That is our role." Falk has made this clear to the Reebok executives, and they have enthusiastically embraced his vision.
Falk is not so keen on Nike these days. Despite Jordan, there's some tension. Nike was displeased with the number and range of Jordan's endorsements; it felt he was diluting the Air Jordan image that it had so carefully cultivated. Nike reacted by signing athletes to overall management contracts. Meaning that the agent will negotiate for the player on the court and Nike will control the rest. "It puts all your eggs in one basket," says Falk, who only has one player with Nike Sports Management, Alonzo Mourning. (While good-looking and appealing, he has a very slight nonsports profile, thanks to Nike's poor marketing.) "Nike wants to be the captain of the ship," Falk continues. "They want to decide how many destinations you stop at. And my job is to be captain of the ship. And there can only be one captain of the ship."
Reebok is thrilled to let Falk chart the course. It signed Iverson before the draft for more than $40 million and view him as the company's salvation. Reebok currently has Shaquille O'Neal on its roster, but for reasons Reebok cannot explain, he hasn't really helped sales. Iverson strikes them as the everyman superstar. He's of average height and build, but speedy and tough. "Kind of like a sneaker," says Tom Carmody, the senior vice president of strategic planning, as he takes a seat next to Falk.
Iverson sits on Falk's other side. As he finds his place, Carmody hands out commemorative Olympic watches. Iverson studies his closely. "Who is your watch company?" Falk asks, always inquisitive about the business aspects of any situation. Carmody shakes his head. "Can you find out?" Falk says. "I'd like to know."
The meeting starts. It is, technically, Reebok's meeting, but it is the Falk show. He is dazzling. "We're here to talk about who Allen is," Falk begins. "The single most important thing is to manage his image. It gets so diffuse. Every company wants to be Fellini and control the guy's image. It cannibalizes the guy's appeal and it confuses the audience."
Everyone agrees, and Iverson sits quietly, listening. "How do you feel about that?" Falk asks Iverson. He thinks a minute. "I would be more into it," he replies slowly, "if I could be myself."
"Well," says Falk. "With him, I have a penchant to do it differently. It doesn't work to do the same stuff that Jordan did in 1984. It would be as if Allen Iverson wore Michael Jordan's custom-made clothes from 1984. They wouldn't fit and they'd be out of style."
Carmody and the Reebok executives nod. Any time there's a Jordan reference, they're happy. "Our idea, Allen," Carmody says, "is speed and innovation. That's how we look at you." Iverson stares. "Would you say speed and innovation work for you?" Falk asks Iverson. There is a long silence. "I would say creativity," Iverson says, finally. Everyone nods.
A Reebok brand manager named Henry (Que) Gaskins walks in with a dozen basketballs, a pile of trading cards and some pens. He is Iverson's Reebok guy -- he will travel with Iverson, attend every game he plays with the 76ers and help coordinate Reebok events. He hands Iverson a ball to sign. Iverson considers himself artistic and his signature is full of flourishes.
Falk, who is all-gears-clicking-into-place alert, watches Iverson, who may be fast on the court but does everything else in a kind of underwater slow motion, carefully take the top off a fat gold marker. "He's an artist," Falk says, an idea hatching. "What if he had poster ideas? What if he had a poster that said, 'I on the Game.' Like, eye -- the shape of an eye -- on the game. Or posters in the shape of an eye." The Reebok crew nods. "What about that, Allen?" Falk asks.
"That would be really cool," Iverson says, signing his second basketball.
Falk tries to engage him. "What motivates you to sketch?" he asks. A long pause. "I'm bored," he replies. "Well," Falk says, "I'll give you the games -- Vancouver. . . . " Iverson and the Reebokers laugh. "I just like to draw," Iverson says, autographing another ball. "Wow," says Carmody. "That's a talent."
An assistant passes around the Iverson logo. It is a large I with, for some reason, a small 3 next to it. The I is stylized -- it tilts and has a zigzag cut out on one side. "It looks like an Interstate sign," Carmody says. "It says there's no limits, there's no schedule."
The logo is placed in triangles, in circles and in a square. Falk is immediately troubled by the square. "I think something that's square is a square," he says. "What about a diamond? He's a rookie and he's like a diamond in the rough, so a diamond would be good." Carmody shakes his head.
There are so many things to consider: Falk wants a fan club ("from Day 1"), a web site, a charity, a guest spot on a TV show ("I like 'Martin,' 'Living Single' or 'New York Undercover,' " Iverson says, perking up), a live Internet interview after every game. "But I don't want to get too far ahead of myself," Falk says, after a burst of ideas.
Iverson smiles. "Can I see the shoe?" he asks.
Gaskins brings in the Iverson shoe. It is white and padded and has a clear sole and circular honeycombed panels along the base of the shoe. Iverson looks at the shoe intently, turns it over, tracing his finger along the base. "The Answer is clear," Falk enthuses. Iverson likes this line. The sole of the shoe is clear; he's the Answer -- it works for him. "I don't know how you come up with this stuff," he says.
The next presentation is by two guys in their 30's who are from Leo Burnett, the ad agency that will be doing the Iverson-Reebok commercials. They set up an overhead projector at the end of the room. As they begin their presentation, Falk interrupts. "Can I give you a really corny idea?" he asks. "I like acronyms. My company is an acronym. What if we come up with an acronym for Allen? Speed. Creativity. Innovation. S.C.I. The Science of footwear. The Science of --." Falk stops midthought. His mind is racing. "Wait," he continues. "There Is No 'I' in Team.' You know, coaches always say there is no 'I' in the word team. Play for the team and all. Well, we could do, 'Who Said There Is No 'I' in Team?' Or 'The SCIence of Allen Iverson.' This is a science. We are trying to create a whole new approach. We're combining SCIence." Falk stops. "I'm sorry," he says. "This is me."
The ad guys don't really know how to respond, and they begin again. More than Falk, they are interested in meshing Iverson's identity with Reebok. "We want that link forged," they repeat again and again. "When people see him, we want them to see Reebok."
They put on a foil that reads "Positioning Road Map." It is a chart that projects Iverson's career evolution to the year 2000. By then, Reebok believes, he will be in the N.B.A. finals, have a two-minute commercial during the Super Bowl and play in the Olympics. By then, they hope he will be Jordan. He will be playing basketball to maintain his brand name and making the real money off the court.
Falk studies the chart. "At the end of '98 and '99, he becomes a free agent, and that's very important," he says. He ponders their schedule. "Allen will have phases," he adds. "The menu of companies change. You wouldn't want to do a financial services company now, but in nine years, when he's 30 and he's making $150 million, that might be appropriate."
Iverson looks up at this point. "$150 million?" Falk is still considering the chart. "Overnight delivery, sports, drinks, apparel -- they are a good fit," he says, reading. "Cereal, fast food, computers, automobiles, those are a bad fit?" Falk thinks a second. "I think about Grant Hill doing General Motors and I think: What were they thinking? Grant Hill is Ferrari." Everyone laughs. "What products do you like?" Falk asks Iverson.
Iverson takes a minute. He puts down the pen and stares at the graph. "Benz," he finally says. "I like Benz. Or Lexus." Falk seizes upon this. "The relentless pursuit of perfection," he exclaims. "Lexus fits his style as a player. It's a perfect fit. It reinforces you. It reinforces them."
There is some concern that Iverson's lack of education (he left college after only two years) and criminal record will affect the range of his endorsements. Falk isn't concerned: "He had some things in his life that weren't perfect. He should be hip, but not avant-garde. Hip, but not hop."
The Leo Burnett team then act out a potential commercial for Iverson. It involves a train ("Can I ask you, why a train?" Falk inquires) and some animation. The idea is O.K., but it lacks the distinctive clarity and innovation of most Nike advertising. The concept is just too obvious, and Falk knows it.
But he lets it go. He is polite but not overly enthusiastic. Iverson has a plane to catch, and the Reebok guys still want to show him a roomful of new products he can put his name on. There's not much time, and Falk has a good sense of how far he can push.
The only real question is, Can Iverson excel in the pros? When Jordan was a rookie in 1984, his brain wasn't clogged with marketing plans to the millennium. "Quite honestly," Jordan says, "I only knew about the basketball aspect. Until we actually started to do it, I didn't know about marketing. And then I learned. No one could have told me that the marketing of an athlete would grow to this magnitude."
From the jump, Jordan was brilliant on the court. The marketing went hand in hand with his playing. Iverson has not played one preseason game and he is already being positioned as "The Answer." "Today," Jordan says, "the marketing of an athlete sometimes exceeds the potential of that athlete. Back then, the potential of the athlete built the marketing. Now, it isn't as important."
Jordan may question this reversal, but he and Falk set the standard. After all, no one can play like Jordan, but they can play the part. Which is why Falk, who realizes there probably won't ever be another Jordan, is anxious to secure Iverson's marketing well before he sets foot in the arena.
"Allen Iverson doesn't have to play great," he tells the Reebok executives. "He has to be a great personality on the court. He's going to be a fantastic performer." Iverson hears this, but he doesn't look up. He just keeps signing his name.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I don't want to manufacture Allen Iverson; I want to shape him," says Falk, doing just that with his rookie client at Reebok headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WALTER P. CALAHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 46); Nike Air Jordan shoe. Falk and Michael Jordan first joined up in 1984. (WALTER P. CALAHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 48); At a gala for the James Jordan Boys and Girls Club in Chicago (named for Michael's father), Falk schmoozes with another client, Antoine Walker of the Boston Celtics. (SAUL LIEBERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 49); Wheaties box. If the shoe fits, sell it - which is exactly what Allen Iverson will do with his new Reeboks, even before he has had to prove himself on the court. (WALTER P. CALAHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 50); Falk got Juwan Howard $105 million for seven years. (SAUL LIEBERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (54%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (54%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (54%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NIKE INC (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA) NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (90%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); ATHLETES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); MARKET SHARE (62%); 

PERSON: HIRSCHBERG, LYNN; FALK, DAVID MICHAEL JORDAN (94%); TOM CRUISE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



360 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
CYBERSCOUT

BYLINE: By L.R. SHANNON 

 BODY:

BILL GATES EXPRESS
Microsoft Expedia
http://expedia.msn.com/ 
 Microsoft's Expedia is a slick, easy-to-use travel service. That the leading maker of software for personal computers has produced an accessible Web site shouldn't come as a surprise, but Microsoft has stumbled in the past.
Expedia is at least as simple to operate as the handful of other cybertravel services I have dipped into, but, since no one knows how many agencies are on line, it would be unfair to call it the best. It would also be premature: the service is less than a month old.
There are five major sections: Travel Agent, where flight, hotel and auto reservations can be found and made; Travel Central, a library of guidebooks; Connections, where travelers exchange information; News Point, late-breaking news, weather and exchange rates, and Mungo Park, for virtual adventure travel, the safest kind.
All this is free, except for what you or your company or school pays for an Internet connection. Expedia is also available on the Microsoft Network, its own on-line service.
The Microsoft "campus" is in Redmond, Wash., so I decided to take a virtual vacation in the Seattle area. I signed in and filled out a form on the screen: name, E-mail address, member i.d., password, country (only the United States at this time). Then, with a cheery "Welcome Larry Shannon," Expedia said that its "wizards are ready to find the flights, rental cars and hotel rooms that are perfect for you." Wizards are the helpful aides in such software as Microsoft Windows 95 and Microsoft Publisher. And they are certainly smart.
Next, I went into the Travel Agent Flight Wizard. The defaults are round trip and coach class, which would be fine for most travelers. (One way or multiple destinations, and business class or first class are options.)
There were many options for airlines and other preferences. The most sensible, such as lowest price, were what you got unless you specified otherwise. Under Expedia's simple interface is Worldspan, a computerized reservation service used by professional travel agents. But you don't have to know, for instance, that Newark is EWR; the software knows.
Then I was given a choice of flights, and picked the least expensive one. I then went into the Travel Agent Car Wizard, and was offered class of car (economy, for me) from one of nine rental car companies. Again, the defaults made sense. Unless you specify otherwise, you are directed to rental agencies at the airport you will arrive at and depart from.
In the Travel Agent Hotel Wizard, you can select chains, price ranges and amenities (nonsmoking, swimming pool and such) and whether the hotel is in town, near the airport or near a local attraction. For many of the hotels, a mouse click brings up a map of the area with the hotel highlighted, and photographs and descriptions of the establishment. All of this is exceptionally fast for the Web, although it may slow down when it draws more users.
As always on the Web, this is not objective information. It is supplied by the individual companies. You can book all these things on line or call a toll-free number. Microsoft makes a point that it uses leading-edge electronic security to protect credit card numbers and other personal information.
I also dipped into the sequence World Guide-North America-United States for background information about Seattle. There were 20 sites in the United States listed alphabetically from Anchorage to Washington, D.C., but not Washington state. There were also options for Background, six categories including geography, and arts and culture, and Travel Essentials, eight categories such as food and drink and money and measurements. These are not especially helpful when you are traveling in your own country, but invaluable for foreign trips. According to Microsoft, the World Guide contains information on more than 50 countries and 200 cities, with 150 maps and 4,000 pictures.
There were nine forums for exchanging messages, divided into geographic areas and such themes as family. In the North American forum there were about 30 messages. They ran from exchanges about the Grand Canyon and Disneyland to a request for information on finding a good bed and breakfast in New York.
Microsoft became a travel agency to start Expedia. Earlier this year, the software company applied for membership in the American Society of Travel Agents, and even hung out a sign to submit a photograph of it with the application. If the software business goes bad, Bill Gates has something to fall back on. L. R. SHANNON

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP EXPEDIA INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (75%); AIRLINES (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



361 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 5; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Blaming the Elderly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It should not be necessary to explain simple concepts to an economist as distinguished as Paul Krugman. Unfortunately, his review of two recent books on entitlement programs for the elderly (Oct. 20) shows he is as susceptible to prevailing misconceptions in this area as the rest of the nation's pundits. 
 Mr. Krugman comments approvingly on "Will America Grow Up Before It Grows Old?," by Peter G. Peterson, which purports to show that the elderly are going to bankrupt the nation. Mr. Krugman, like Mr. Peterson, lumps Social Security and Government health care programs for the elderly together. But the issues are completely different.
In the case of Social Security, according to the trustees' report, it will be possible to meet all scheduled benefit payments over the next 75 years with relatively minor tax increases (2.2 percent of payroll, if done tomorrow). These increases would allow future generations to enjoy substantially higher after-tax income than workers do at present. The main reason taxes will have to rise at all is not the retirement of the baby boom generation, but the fact that people are living longer.
The Medicare and Medicaid projections are indeed a nightmare, but this is because of underlying projections in the cost of health care more generally. The Health Care Financing Administration's projections show that private sector health care spending will be nearly $4,000 per person by the year 2005. This means that a family of four at the median income will be spending approximately 30 percent of its before-tax income on health care. That is a crisis, but it has nothing to do with entitlement programs for the elderly.
 
Dean Baker
Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: WILL AMERICA GROW UP BEFORE IT GROWS OLD? (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); AGING (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); MEDICARE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); LITERATURE (72%); MEDICAID (70%); TAX LAW (68%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL; PETERSON, PETER G PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); PETE PETERSON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



362 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 6; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Blaming the Elderly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Following the lead of welfare reformers, the authors and Paul Krugman would force all Americans to work longer and have less access to health care. They seem unaware of compulsory "early retirements" with small pensions, of the bipartisan policy of maintaining high unemployment to control inflation and even of the history of entitlements. All of them were designed to take people out of the labor force, because jobs were not available. They also seem unaware of the increasing reports that H.M.O. systems, designed for healthy workers, not for the old and poor, are moving us back toward the 19th century, when poverty and malnutrition produced faster death. 
 They should admit that their definition of the problem is that we have too many old people and, by extrapolation, too many poor people, and that these herds must be culled if society is to survive. The 19th-century "science" of eugenics is reappearing in new garb.
 
Frederick C. Thayer
Pittsburgh

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: WILL AMERICA GROW UP BEFORE IT GROWS OLD? (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); LITERATURE (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); MALNUTRITION (73%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL; PETERSON, PETER G PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); PETE PETERSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



363 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC;
The Accidental Violist

BYLINE: By K. ROBERT SCHWARZ; K. Robert Schwarz is the author of "Minimalists."

 BODY:
PERHAPS STARDOM IS AS much preordained as painstakingly achieved. A few artists are born with the talent and charisma needed to capture the imagination of the public. Only the means by which they will win fame remains to be determined.
Take the 43-year-old violist Yuri Bashmet, who will perform with the Moscow Soloists on Thursday evening at Carnegie Hall and play Alfred Schnittke's Viola Concerto with the New York Philharmonic next month at Avery Fisher Hall. As a young musician growing up in Lvov, Ukraine, Mr. Bashmet clearly possessed stellar gifts. He studied violin at the Lvov Conservatory and was, in his own words, "the best violin player in the school." He was also the lead guitarist of a rock band that played Beatles and Rolling Stones tunes, and the teen-age idol of Lvov. 
 But why, at 14, did he switch from the violin, an instrument with built-in star potential, to the viola, a self-effacing vehicle perennially relegated to an inner voice?
"When I was given the possibility of changing to viola, I asked the advice of one of my friends," Mr. Bashmet said recently from his dacha outside Moscow. "He told me: 'Listen, if you play the viola, you will spend less time learning technical things, so you will have more time for your guitar.' "
But three years later his double musical life ground to a halt, in part because of the rising influence of Jimi Hendrix. "When Hendrix's music arrived in Lvov," Mr. Bashmet said, "I felt that as a guitar player, I couldn't do this abstract, psychedelic improvisation." He quit the guitar, and pop music, forever. "It was almost a tragic moment," he said in dead earnest.
There was still the viola, of course, but no instrument would have seemed a less likely solo vehicle. Lost in the shadows between the brilliant violin and the resonant cello, the viola, with its gravelly, melancholy voice, has a skimpy repertory of concertos. And though history has acknowledged a few great violists, none devoted an entire career to solo performance.
Unfazed, Mr. Bashmet pursued the instrument with relentless intensity and boundless self-assurance. He may also have had useful connections, for as the dying Soviet Union staggered toward perestroika, Mr. Bashmet's career took off. He toured with the pianist Sviatoslav Richter and traveled freely to the West.
By the time the Soviet Union collapsed, Mr. Bashmet had achieved the impossible. He was, in the words of the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, the first violist to attain "a gigantic solo career on an instrument that no one considers the equal of the violin."
Not that the road wasn't bumpy. Managers, agents and concert promoters all doubted that any violist, however skilled, could have a major career. "I began to feel like a pioneer," Mr. Bashmet said. "People told me it had never been done before, and they were afraid to book a solo recital, because, after all, they had to sell tickets."
But he persevered, and today his schedule is crammed with as many bookings as that of any violinist. As soloist with orchestra or in recital, he plays more than 100 concerts a season; as the leader of his own chamber orchestra, the Moscow Soloists, he gives 50 more. In fact, his success has been so great that up-and-coming violists can now contemplate a solo career. "I'm very happy that younger players now have a better chance." he said. But, he added immodestly, "nobody has the same career as I do."
He has achieved that career by means of a musicianship so intense that it would have found expression no matter what instrument he had chosen.
"Great artists often seem so outstanding that you don't even ask which instrument they play on," said Kurt Masur, the music director of the New York Philharmonic. "He is a great soloist who happened to land on the viola. The sensibility of this instrument gives him the possibility to whisper, to shout, to love, to be full of poetry. He has the ability to make you believe that he creates the piece at that moment. It's not only passionate playing but almost like improvising."
Since the Schnittke Viola Concerto (1985) was written for Mr. Bashmet, he identifies with it to an extraordinary degree. The composer is critically ill, and Mr. Bashmet is acutely aware that any performance of this concerto could become a memorial.
"When I play Schnittke's music, I am like a dramatic actor from a Shakespearean tragedy," he said. "I am not only a musician. Because his music tells us about basic human categories, like life and death, good and bad. And for once the viola is a hero. Here Schnittke makes the instrument grow very strong."
This is one of 36 concertos, mostly by Russian composers, written for Mr. Bashmet. To that astonishing number will be added a concerto by Sofia Gubaidulina, scheduled for next year. Like the violist Kim Kashkashian, Mr. Bashmet commissions new works both because he loves contemporary music and because so few top-notch concertos have been written for the instrument.
"In quantity there is enough music," he said. "Stamitz, Hoffmeister, thousands of names like that. In quality there is not enough. And that is also the reason I founded the chamber orchestra. Because I can't play third-class music all the time. Maybe second-class, but not third."
IN 1986, MR. BASHMET founded the Moscow Soloists as a vehicle with which to perfect his latest passion, conducting. But in 1992 the entire chamber orchestra emigrated to the West, a decision with which Mr. Bashmet strongly disagreed, and it eventually disbanded. Mr. Bashmet remained in Moscow and soon assembled a new Moscow Soloists.
Of most interest in the group's Carnegie Hall program is Mr. Bashmet's transcription of Brahms's Clarinet Quintet for solo viola and string orchestra. "I'm jealous of violinists and pianists, because they have concertos by Brahms, and I have not," he said. "The problem is that I perform music I love much better than music I like. So the idea was to prepare for myself this piece, since I love Brahms very much."
Mr. Bashmet exudes a childlike enthusiasm when he ponders the new horizons offered by conducting. In a surprisingly offhand manner, he admitted that he could conceive of a future in which conducting, not viola playing, would be his primary activity. "Honestly," he added hastily, "I have not decided yet where I am for real."
Today, Mr. Bashmet appears to be among Russia's economically privileged elite, earning income not only from performances and recordings but also as a professor at the Moscow Conservatory and the host of a nationally televised cultural talk show. His dacha, 40 minutes from Moscow, is situated in what he calls "the Russian Beverly Hills," the same community where Prokofiev once lived. Not for a moment does he seem to regret his decision to remain in Russia.
The pianist Alexander Slobodyanik, who grew up with Mr. Bashmet in Lvov and moved to the United States seven years ago, believes that the post-emigration demise of the first Moscow Soloists reinforced Mr. Bashmet's determination not to emigrate.
"He saw that it was unsuccessful for his first orchestra to leave the Soviet Union," Mr. Slobodyanik said. "They fell for materialistic things, real garbage. They dropped their holy goal to work for music and for Yuri Bashmet and just became nothing."
Mr. Bashmet does not speak charitably of those players either. "Those were the first years of perestroika, so it was a very difficult time in Moscow," he said. "And there was a big, strong virus for musicians to leave the Soviet Union."
He claims not to have suffered under the Soviet regime. "Nothing bad happened with me," he said. "I had my life going in the right way. Today I like to be at home, and besides, from whom could I get a better job than the one I have already?"
And indeed, where else could this violist, conductor and talk-show host enjoy the same degree of stardom?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yuri Bashmet is about to perform two programs in New York--"Great artists often seem so outstanding that you don't even ask which instrument they play on," said Kurt Masur. "He is a great soloist who happened to land on the viola."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); UKRAINE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); UKRAINE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); 

PERSON: SCHWARZ, K ROBERT; BASHMET, YURI ALFRED SCHNITTKE (57%); AVERY FISHER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



364 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: County Sees a Resurgence in Office Space

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
THE forlorn steel skeleton of 287 Corporate Plaza, a visible symbol of the recession from Exit 5 of the Cross Westchester Expressway, is now in the process of being transformed into a 133,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art office building more than a decade after the original work began.
"The site work began in 1985, when Westchester was one of the hottest suburban markets in the nation," said Guerrino Savio, the owner-developer and president of SCI Real Estate Development in Manhattan, which also owns and operates office buildings in Texas, Massachusetts and Connecticut. "However, by 1990, when the steel work went up, the boom years in Westchester were over." Mr. Savio recalled. "The tide had turned. The recession set in, and the office market collapsed. At that point, I decided to hold up on construction of 287 and wait until the market turned around." 
 And now is the hour, Mr. Savio said. Five months ago, workers began pouring cement and closing the sides of the three-floor steel framework. "The exterior of the building should be completed by next month," he said. "Ironically, the delay has been valuable in one sense. The original modern exterior designed by architect Renato Severino has been retained, but the construction design has been upgraded to accommodate all the state-of-the-art technological changes that have occurred over the last couple of years. This will not only be the first new office building to come on the market in Westchester in nearly 10 years but the first high-tech building constructed for the 21st century."
Eighteen months ago, before the decision was made to complete 287 Corporate Plaza, SCI retained the services of Carl Austin, head of Austin Corporate Properties, a commercial real-estate brokerage and marketing company in White Plains. Mr. Austin, who spent several months analyzing the prospective Westchester office market, concluded that the time was right to resume construction of a new office building.
"Why?" he said in answer to a question. "For starters, the regional economy has definitely improved; large blocks of contiguous office space are scarce in Westchester. Plus the chance to create new high-tech space on the last zoned piece available to us for office development."
Saying that the site was originally bought because it was one of the best in the region, Mr. Austin added, "It's a strategic location, bridging the east and west sections of the county, a major asset, symbolizing the county's coming of age."
Mr. Savio continued, "Although we are seeking a major tenant, thebuilding can easily be divided into two equal parts with customized interior configurations to tenants' specifications."
No leases have been signed, Mr. Austin said, "but a major insurance company is looking with serious intent, and the building is on everyone's must-see list."
The third quarter of 1996 was a slow one, according to a report from the Rostenberg-Doern Company, a corporate real-estate brokerage, management and consulting concern with offices in Purchase and Stamford.
"Although third quarter statistics point to a relatively quiet office market, there are a number of major deals in the works involving key office properties," said William V. Cuddy Jr., senior vice president of Rostenberg-Doern. By year end, Mr. Cuddy said, many leases for key office properties should be signed, leading to a surge in leasing activity and a decline in the countywide vacancy rate of 24 percent to about 20 percent.
"Until recently, the Westchester office market was driven by companies looking to relocate primarily for economic reasons," Mr. Cuddy said. "But now that rents have stabilized and the economy has recovered, companies are basing their leasing decisions on the fact that they need more space to grow their businesses. This is a positive and healthy sign for the market."
Observing that the market for Class A space is tightening, especially in downtown White Plains where there are only three office buildings with 30,000 square feet of contiguous space available for lease, Mr. Cuddy said, "Large blocks of prime space in the city's better buildings are becoming more difficult to find."
The survey of Westchester's five market areas showed that in the central business district -- downtown White Plains -- the city's vacancy rate rose to 28.3 percent from 26.6 percent at midyear, having been adversely affected by downsizing by Nynex and the New York Power Authority. Some major leases were signed, however, by Divney Consulting and Teachers Insurance.
In the eastern half of the county, including Purchase, Rye and Harrison, the office market bounced back, benefiting from expansions and relocations from within the county. Major transactions included Allstate, First Translife Insurance, Headquarters Companies, R. H. Donnelley, Transamerica and Zeus.
The office market in the western half of the county, which is made up primarily of Tarrytown and Elmsford, reported the lowest vacancy rate, declining at midyear to 12.8 percent from 14.7 percent. Major transactions here were CNA, Liberty Mutual, Westchester County and ZREX
The vacancy rate in the northern half of the county fell to 15.6 percent from 16 percent, with the Mid-Westchester Executive Park in Hawthorne reporting excellent leasing activity. Major transactions: Cityscape, Coca-Cola Bottling Company of New York, Lucent Technologies and Nextwave.
There was little leasing activity in the southern part of the county, an area that includes Yonkers, New Rochelle and Mount Vernon. The vacancy rate rose at midyear to 17.6 percent from 15.4 percent. Major transactions: Pico Electronics.
"Most recently, within the past two months, we've seen a healthy surge of interest leading to leasing transactions from companies in the financial services industry based in Manhattan," Mr. Cuddy said. "They are shopping for space in the White Plains area, citing lower rents, proximity to Manhattan and an improved quality of life as their chief reasons for relocating. It bodes well for the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carl Austin, outside 287 Corporate Plaza in White Plains. Work on the office building resumed recently after six years. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SCI REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT & INVESTMENT CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCI REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); ZONING (77%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (77%); SUBURBS (56%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY WILLIAM V CUDDY JR (70%); CARL AUSTIN (70%); GUERRINO SAVIO (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



365 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Farmington Canal;
As Greenways Expand, So Do Uses

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
JOANNE G. FEENEY of Glastonbury normally uses her Rollerblades along a highway or in a cemetery, but she's a bit apprehensive in both places. "In cemeteries you feel uncomfortable because it's not a playground, and on the road it's just not safe," she said.
So on a recent sunny Saturday morning Ms. Feeney made the half-hour trip to Farmington, where she honed her skating skills along a two-mile section of asphalt through the woods off Brickyard Road, along an old railroad line. The trail sides are bordered with wildflowers, and a few feet from the edge are bittersweet and grapevines draped over birch, maples and oak. She shared the trail with bikers, hikers, joggers and baby carriages; in the winter there will be cross-country skiers as well. And soon there will be more to the trail itself. Six towns in northern Connecticut received a $2.6 million grant this year to develop a 22-mile greenway along the Farmington Canal Heritage Trail, which will include the existing piece in Farmington, running south from the Massachusetts border to the Farmington River in Farmington. 
 "We're hopeful that by the year 2000 we're going to have a total connection -- someone will be able to hike, bike or skate from Massachusetts to Long Island Sound," said Leonard D. Tolisano, the Simsbury town planner who is coordinating the project. "The only glitch will be if the Federal Government decides to stop funding these projects. It is fairly expensive stuff."
Nancy H. Bostwick, executive director of the Farmington Canal Rail to Trail Association, said Cheshire and Hamden have about six miles done, and other towns along the Farmington Canal corridor have completed their own small greenways. "In the next few years, you could see a lot more built, linking these sections together, if we can just maintain the momentum," Ms. Bostwick said.
Advocates of the national "Rail to Trails" movement say it is part of a new fitness and recreation philosophy sweeping the United States. "The American culture is ready to get back outdoors," said William D. O'Neill, a principal in the Manchester engineering firm Fuss & O'Neill and the governor's appointee to the Connecticut Greenways Council.
At the urging of Gov. John G. Rowland, the New England Governors Council has endorsed the idea of a greenways tour of New England next May, Mr. O'Neill said. Side trips to greenways in New York and Montreal are also planned. And he is working with Amtrak on the concept of a biking package, in which people and their bikes could board in East Coast cities, travel to Hartford, then pick up the train somewhere else on the trail for a return trip.
"The Farmington Canal greenway is very high profile right now, because it sits right on a trail that people eventually hope will link Maine to Florida," Mr. O'Neill said. "We should be taking advantage of that attention."
The first sections of the Farmington Valley Greenway were paved in Simsbury and Farmington in 1994 and 1995. Then this year, the State Department of Transportation approved a $2.6 million grant under the Federal Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act to develop 22 miles of the trail through Avon, East Granby, Granby, Farmington, Simsbury and Suffield. "Bikeways are specifically stipulated in the law," said a Transportation Department spokesman, William E. Keish. "It gives the state a little flexibility in the use of the funds."
"People do bike to work," Mr. Keish said. "A lot of people even walk to work. According to the 1990 census almost as many people walk to work as take a bus or train."
Mr. Tolisano, the Simsbury town planner, said he has been surprised at how quickly the sections of greenway become well used.
"When we paved one section of the rail in Simsbury, people were literally following the paving machine," Mr. Tolisano said. "The blacktop was still steaming, and people were walking on it. On a nice weekend, these things are mobbed."
There have been some problems to overcome. The Simsbury section of the greenway runs right through the Ensign Bickford property, an explosives factory, so it was necessary to divert the trail almost four miles for safety purposes.
There will be other problems as the trail progresses farther south, into heavily developed areas around New Britain and New Haven. In Plainville, some of the old Farmington Canal trail is in the 80-acre Norton Park, but there are no plans for further development of greenways.
"Portions of the rail line are still active in Plainville, as well as in Cheshire," said Plainville Town Planner Mary M. Hughes. "I don't think the railroad would be too keen on having people walk along the tracks."
She said there is also occasional talk about instituting commuter rail service to Hartford from the suburbs, and there might be a need to retain some of the right of way for that purpose.
Ms. Bostwick of the Farmington Canal Rail to Trail Association said she understands why Plainville might hesitate to commit more of the right of way to recreation. "We've never advocated abandoning active rail corridors -- but if they are abandoned, we want to see them available for use by the public," she said.
There are also occasional concerns from neighbors, particularly in residential areas. In Avon, people in one neighborhood would not agree to the trail unless about 700 feet of fence was installed.
"Even there, there were some people who loved the greenway and fought the fences, but unfortunately there were more people who wanted the fences and the Town Council decided to build them," Mr. Tolisano said. "I guess it's better to argue about whether or not to build the fence than to argue about whether to build the greenway."
Along already-completed sections of the greenway, there are few complaints from neighbors. In fact, there are well-worn paths leading from residential areas to the trails that are done.
At Steve A. Guarino's home on Rosewood Drive in Farmington, the trail runs within 15 feet of a tool shed and garden in the back of his property. "I love it," said Mr. Guarino, who moved to the house in 1984, when the railroad was still operating. "There haven't been any problems with the people. Everyone is very nice, quiet. And it's given me a chance to meet new people. You can't talk to a train going by."
Mr. O'Neill said rural greenways have become popular, including East Bay Path in Rhode Island, as have urban ones, like the Minuteman Trail in Boston. Oregon has bike lockers for people who use their trails, and Colorado, Florida and California are all in the forefront of developing the paths. "We're just starting to catch up with some of these ideas in this part of the country," Mr. O'Neill said. In addition to the Farmington Canal trail, other paths under consideration are the Airline Trail from Windham to Middletown and the Charter Oak Trail from Plainfield to Hartford.
"It's typically a very grassroots kind of effort," Mr. O'Neill said. "More and more towns are seeing the value of it." In fact, greenways can generate some cash for a community. Mr. O'Neill said he has met with the State Department of Economic and Community Development to promote greenways -- studies show tourists to popular greenways spend $50 to $100 a day on their visits, primarily for food and lodging.
"There's a tremendous return on investment," Mr. O'Neill said. "A greenway can pay for itself in a few years. A greenway should not be considered a cost. It's an investment."
Ms. Bostwick said there are also some long-term issues to be resolved. Who. for example, will take care of the trails once they are linked? Most associations would like to see consistent standards along the entire path.
"At this point, as particular sectors are developed, the town where it is located takes it over, usually under its parks and recreation department," Ms. Bostwick said. "What we'd like to do is develop some sort of mechanism for regional management and maintenance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl and Debra Peterhansel of Unionville take a Saturday morning greenway walk with their children, Tyler and Cara.; Kevin Corcoran joins Linda Gottlieb on a skate down the greenway. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%); NEW ENGLAND GOVERNORS COUNCIL (59%); CONNECTICUT GREENWAYS COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND GOVERNORS COUNCIL (59%); CONNECTICUT GREENWAYS COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FARMINGTON CANAL HERITAGE TRAIL (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS CEMETERIES (90%); HIKING (90%); GOVERNORS (85%); TRAINS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); SKIING (69%); ENGINEERING (62%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A WILLIAM D O'NEILL (57%); LEONARD D TOLISANO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



366 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Confronting High Birth Rate For Teen-Agers

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
TAKIMA GONZALEZ, a high school senior here, grew up long before she wanted to. For her, turning Sweet 16 had less to do with parties and pretty dresses than it did with a baby daughter called Shy-Nel and a boyfriend who was a father in name only. Instead of dreaming as other young women often do about college and a family someday in the future, this young woman struggles in the present to balance motherhood and schoolwork and loneliness.
"Life stopped short for me, just like that," Ms. Gonzalez, who is now 18, said recently. "Becoming a mother meant I couldn't hang out with my friends any more or go to parties or even have a regular conversation without worrying about whether the baby needed a clean diaper." 
 Her story is not an unusual one. Every year in the United States, 1.2 million teen-age girls bear children. While those numbers have dropped slightly in recent years, at 56.9 births for each 1,000 young women between 15 and 19 in 1995 -- nearly 6 percent -- America has by far the highest teen-age pregnancy rate for any industrialized democracy.
The incidence is startlingly higher in the neighborhood where Ms. Gonzalez is raising her daughter. Here, in a mostly business district with poor, predominantly minority residential areas, the numbers are 201 births for each 1,000 young women or 20 percent, which is the sixth-highest birth rate for teen-agers in the state. In Rochester, the rate is 37 percent, the state's highest, and in the central Harlem district of New York City, it is 32 percent.
The outlook for most teen-age mothers like Ms. Gonzalez is not promising, although she said she hoped to beat the odds. Statistics show that more than half of teen-age mothers drop out of school after having a baby, and they are more likely than older mothers to seek public assistance.
Ms. Gonzalez, however, is not on welfare, and she said she is determined to earn her diploma and graduate in June along with her classmates. When she is not studying or caring for 2-year-old Shy-Nel, she works as a photographer's assistant at a portrait studio in a nearby mall. Her grandmother, with whom she lives, and her mother, who lives nearby, help care for the child, and the father, who is unemployed, visits his daughter once a month and occasionally contributes to the expenses of raising her. Ms. Gonzalez said she had refused to marry him "just because I had his baby."
In Yonkers, where the teen-age pregnancy rate is 17 percent, Jesenia Rodriquez shares a similar story, although she receives some public assistance.
Now 18, Ms. Rodriquez lost a year of school when her son, Joshua, now 11 months, was born, and she is completing her graduate equivalency diploma and beginning college studies for a degree in social work through a program offered at an extension unit of Mercy College.
But she shares none of the student camaraderie that she had hoped for at college, and like Ms. Gonzalez, she is alone much of the time. Ms. Rodriquez spends most of her days with Joshua in their small basement apartment, which is decorated with hand-me-down furniture and photographs of the toddler's first year.
Increasingly, stories like these young women's have become the focus of an intense political debate. The welfare reform bill signed into law by President Clinton on Aug. 22 will mean stricter work requirements and less public support for young women and their children.
"We consider it a very punitive law," said Bob Hochman, coordinator of the Yonkers-based Teen Linkage Program of the Westchester County Department of Health, which helps pregnant teen-agers, teen-age mothers and young women considered at high risk of becoming pregnant. "The message is that you guys are on your own and that if you're going to get pregnant, we're not going to support you."
Donna M. Butts, executive director of the Washington-based National Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Parenting and Prevention, a nonprofit group, called it "an abstinence only" measure.
She said that under the law, states with programs that teach teen-agers to prevent pregnancy by abstaining from sex will be eligible for $250 million in matching block grants.
Citing statistics showing that 70 percent of teen-agers have sexual experiences before they leave high school, Ms. Butts said, "Hope, not abstinence, is the best form of birth control."
She said that teen-age pregnancy is linked to low socioeconomic conditions, lower intellectual and academic achievement, unemployment, child abuse, drinking and drugs.
Ms. Rodriquez, who works as a peer counselor for the Teen Linkage Program, said some girls choose to have a baby because "they need someone to be with who won't leave them."
In counseling other young women, she is quick to tell them that having a baby is a lot of hard work: "I met one girl in a class who said: 'Oh, babies are so cute, it's so easy to take care of them. You just give them milk.' But I told her babies have tantrums and they want to get picked up all the time."
Ms. Rodriquez's case is unusual in that she has continued her relationship with the baby's father, who visits the family every day and contributes to Joshua's support.
"Before I met him, I hung out with street guys, with hoodlums," she said. "I grew up in the projects, and that was my view of the world. Maybe I thought I couldn't do better."
Ms. Rodriquez said the baby's father works after school and gives her $300 a month -- and "if Joshua needs sneakers or something else, he gives me more."
Ms. Butts and other social workers are worried that the new welfare law is unduly harsh and will cause hardships for many mothers like Ms. Rodriquez and Ms. Gonzalez.
"Everyone agrees that we needed some type of welfare reform, but this bill has unfairly targeted adolescent mothers," she said. "There are young women who are succeeding, who are doing everything to be a good mother and make a better life, and we need to give them credit and recognition."
The new welfare law, in addition to promoting abstinence, limits the time young mothers can spend on public assistance to two years. And it requires that teen-age mothers return to school or enter a job-training program within 12 weeks after the birth of their babies.
Also under the law, mothers younger than 18 are required to live with a responsible adult, although some social workers fear that that requirement could return many young women to abusive homes.
Norman Shaw, a spokesman for the county's Department of Social Services, said his department had not yet assessed the full impact of the new Federal law on the 700 or so new teen-age mothers each year in Westchester. "We are waiting like everyone else in the state to see exactly what the rules and regulations are," he said.
Meanwhile, some programs in the county are trying to address the problems of teen-age pregnancy. In White Plains, the city's Youth Bureau is recruiting bilingual women who were teen-age mothers to serve as mentors, said Deveira Searcy, a youth specialist. The department also oversees weekly meetings of a newly formed Young Women's Empowerment Group. More information on those programs can be obtained by calling Ms. Searcy at 422-1277.
At the Y.W.C.A. in White Plains, Evelyn Sadler, program director for the School-Based Adolescent Parenting Program, said her organization is trying to reduce the school dropout rate for young mothers.
The Y.W.C.A. runs a weekly support group for mothers and provides day care for babies and young children "with the requirement that their mothers stay in school," said Ms. Sadler, who can be reached at 949-6227.
The number for Mr. Hochman at the Teen Linkage Program in Yonkers is 966-6611.
Planned Parenthood in White Plains has programs for teen-age mothers and fathers, and that group's number is 467-7300.
To get in touch with Home Health Services of Westchester Jewish Community Services, which runs a Mother Child Home Program, the person to call is Terry Lanigan, program director, at 949-0788, extension 238.
But Marie C. Wilson, president of the New York City-based Ms. Foundation for Women, said the need was for more programs that emphasized young women's potential and their strengths, because "too often when we focus on girls, we look only at their problems."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Teen-age mothers, like Jesenia Rodriquez of White Plains with her son, Joshua, have to juggle homework with diapers. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Takima Gonzalez, 18, and her daughter, Shy-Nel, live with a relative in White Plains. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEEN LINKAGE PROGRAM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEEN LINKAGE PROGRAM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); WOMEN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (86%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); STATISTICS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA JESENIA RODRIQUEZ (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



367 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: When the Bills Are Over the Top

BYLINE: By JULIE MILLER 

 BODY:
THREE layoffs in in the past six years left the Litchfield County man with a mountain of debt that forced him into bankruptcy. The job he holds now as sales manager for a small contracting supply business grows more uncertain every day as the company's sales dwindle. The 35-year-old man and his wife, who have two young children, have put their home up for sale.
For several years during the early 1990's, the man and his wife, a regional manager for a retail store, earned a combined income of $90,000 a year. Confident about the future, they enjoyed trips to Europe and Disney World. They took day excursions and went out to dinner often. But the good times were short-lived, and the third layoff came last year. 
 The family's expenses -- a $150,000 mortgage on a new home, a second car, day care, taxes, loans and clothes for the children -- piled up. Soon, they were using credit cards to make the mortgage payment and buy necessities like diapers. Their card balance eventually rose to $28,000.
"We lived day by day and didn't care about tomorrow," the man said. "Then, all of a sudden, tomorrow was different, and we didn't plan. We grasped at whatever life preserver was there."
While Connecticut's economy slowly gained strength, personal bankruptcy filings between 1990 and 1995 increased by 74 percent, according to the American Bankruptcy Institute in Alexandria, Va. Last year, there were 8,884 filings, compared with 5,099 in 1990. This year, personal bankruptcies reached 5,000 in the first six months alone.
These figures reflect a nationwide trend, said Paul Getman, president and economist for Regional Financial Associates of Westchester, Pa., an economic consulting and forecasting firm. "Bankruptcy is rising at a very strong rate all across the United States," Mr. Getman said. "What's puzzling is that it's rising not only in places like Connecticut, that are growing slowly, but also in states where the economy is fairly healthy." Speculation on the causes of the bankruptcies in the state ranges from a decline in real estate prices to excessive spending and high credit card debt. Most people in Connecticut file for bankruptcy after losing high-paying jobs in once-thriving industries like military contracting, aircraft manufacturing and insurance. With new jobs that pay considerably less, they depend on credit to maintain their life style, said Donald Klepper-Smith an economist and president of DataCore Partners Inc., an economic analysis firm.
"Getting ahead hasn't been part of this economic recovery," said Mr. Klepper-Smith. "My concern is that when the next recession arrives it is going to claim a lot of people who are living on the margin."
Another contributing factor is that banks and other financial companies have made borrowing easier. Prompted by recent losses, however, some have begun to tighten their credit requirements, said Mr. Getman. In the future, he added, financial companies will be making fewer offers of credit at low interest rates.
There are two types of personal bankruptcy under the Federal bankruptcy code. Chapter 7 involves liquidating most assets and being freed from debts except for child support, student loans, most taxes and secured loans. Chapter 13 allows people who are employed to keep their possessions while paying off their debts under a three- to five-year payment plan.
Kenneth Crone, vice president in charge of risk management for Visa U.S.A., declined to comment on whether or not Visa relaxed its standards for credit card applicants and in doing so, took some bad credit risks. Mr. Crone said each financial company in Visa's membership establishes its own borrowing requirements and level of risk.
However, Visa advised its members in a report dated July 1996, to educate cardholders about the negative aspects of bankruptcy and the option to file under Chapter 13, the wage-earner's repayment program, rather than Chapter 7, under which a person is freed from most debts.
Visa and MasterCard are testing radio, print and television advertisements encouraging consumers to obtain financial counseling before filing for bankruptcy. The report stated that some financial companies had already begun programs to persuade cardholders either to seek an alternative to bankruptcy or to exclude their credit card debt when they file. Restoration of card privileges is offered as an incentive to those who agree to pay off their balances.
While consumers spent extravagantly during the 1980's, the clients who turn to financial counseling now are not doing so because they have been irresponsible with their money, said Beverly Tuttle, president of Consumer Credit Counseling Services of Connecticut Inc., a firm with offices in Hartford, Groton, Danbury and Milford.
Most clients, having worked hard all their lives, never expected to lose their jobs, she said. They are accustomed to using their credit cards for unplanned expenses like car and home repairs. But still unemployed after several months, they have gone through their savings. The average client owes about $16,000 in credit card debt, Ms. Tuttle added.
"As we get closer to the holidays, how are we going to grow the economy when people are tapped out?" she asked.
On a sunny October morning, 63 people sat waiting for their bankruptcy hearings in a room in a building across from New Haven Green. The group included an older couple whose supplemental insurance failed to cover heavy medical bills and a student who charged unexpected college expenses to her credit cards and then fell behind in her payments. Also waiting was the owner of a cleaning service, whose main customer closed and moved from the state.
Alan Sibarium, a private lawyer in Farmington and a bankruptcy trustee, called each person to a table at the front of the room, where he sat surrounded by stacks of files. Acting on behalf of the bankruptcy court, he examined each person's statement of assets and liabilities and asked a series of questions: "Have you given any money or property to anyone in the past year? Where are your bank accounts? Is anybody holding any property for you? Have you given any financial statements out?"
If there are no assets, which is true in most personal bankruptcies, the case is closed, and the person is notified in several months that the debts have been discharged. Despite reports that bankruptcy has lost some of its stigma, Mr. Sibarium said the people he meets at hearings find the experience emotionally draining. "You're stripping yourself naked," he said. "It means exposing yourself as a failure."
As the Litchfield County man said: "I kept it a big secret from my employer, my friends and my family. I told my parents only a few weeks ago. It's almost as if you have the plague."
Consumer Credit Counseling, started in 1980 with a staff of three, currently employs 47 counselors. Two work full time running education programs on credit and family budgeting. "A lot of people don't hear about us until it's too late," Ms. Tuttle said. "If they have the opportunity, most people will choose to work out their debts."
Clients who begin paying their bills in small but regular monthly installments can be free of debt in three or four years, Ms. Tuttle said. "We find out how they got into trouble and how to avoid it in the future," she said. "We work out a living budget they can stick with, but we hand them scissors and have them cut up their credit cards."
Although bankruptcy offers a chance to start over, it does not change the fact that many people cannot live on a budget, Ms. Tuttle said. "I'm in my 60's. When I was a little girl, we saved for things. That's a notion people have forgotten."
The Litchfield County man is philosophical about his financial problems. The experience has taught him and his family to live more modestly, he said. Instead of vacation trips and dinners out, they hike and go camping. At Christmastime, they plan to exchange homemade gifts. They learned the importance of long- and short-term goals.
"It's not a disaster. There are reasons for this," he said. "We know how to deal with money now. We know when to say no to the kids. And I'm wearing my $15 Wrangler jeans."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bankruptcy's Toll"
Filings for personal bankruptcy in Connecticut. Chapter 7 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code involves liquidating most assets and being freed from debts except child support, student loans, most taxes and secured loans. Chapter 13 allows people who are employed to keep their possessions while paying off debts under a three-to-five-year payment plan. Graphs show number of claims, 1990-1996. (Source: American Bankruptcy Institute) (pg . 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (53%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (82%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (82%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); RETAILERS (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (58%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JULIE PAUL GETMAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



368 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: New Britain Tries to Cope With Drug Traffickers

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM 

 BODY:
DAWN broke over the Mount Pleasant housing development in New Britain as the police teams swept through. A few minutes earlier, more than 50 state and city police officers had entered three apartments, searching for people wanted on drug charges. Now, with a half-dozen suspects locked away in a confinement van, investigators were combing through hallways and alleys, hunting for stragglers.
Capt. Dennis Beatty, in charge of the New Britain Police Department's investigations division, stood on a road between the targeted apartments, watching the proceedings stoically. He noted that Mount Pleasant has a reputation that belies its name. Earlier this year, a man was killed on a street corner a few yards away in what Captain Beatty called "a drug deal gone bad." 
 "It's a housing project," he explained. "Because of the density of the population, it's tougher. They've been dealing a lot of drugs out of here for a long time. Lots of calls for service here."
A knot of young residents watched the show, recognizing friends and acquaintances as they were led away in handcuffs. One of the spectators, Jose Angel Felix, 21, complained that the police had rushed into his family's apartment and rousted him naked from his bed.
"They said: 'Open the door.' They didn't say who they were or nothing. We see the State Police coming in, saying they got an arrest warrant for Angel Felix, my brother. I told them I wasn't him. They asked if I got I.D. Then they took my brother away."
Police officers said that many of those arrested were members of the Hilltop Posse, a drug gang that operates in the 240-unit housing complex. Mr. Felix and his companions disputed the existence of the organization, although in somewhat contradictory terms. Suddenly, from a dark enclosure, a bald, husky man darted out, with a pair of police officers in pursuit. The group of spectators cheered the fugitive on.
"Is that Montana?" one of the young women asked her friends. It was Montana Kelly, 28, one of those for whom the police had a warrant, for misrepresentation of a controlled substance. To the onlookers' disappointment, Mr. Kelly's flight was soon cut short, and he was led into the van.
Not everyone in Mount Pleasant was rooting against the police. Kay Davis, president of the Mount Pleasant Residents Council, later said "it's about time the police did something." If she had it her way, she added, the police would station officers here, rather than just sending patrols.
Police officers later said they confiscated a few "dime bags" of marijuana during the bust. The seven or eight residents who cheered Mr. Kelly acknowledged that marijuana use was common at Mount Pleasant. All but Mr. Felix admitted to using the drug themselves.
"It's not fair," said one young man. "The drug laws are too strict. You look at alcohol. If you drink and drive a car, you're driving a deadly weapon. With pot, you're not going anywhere."
A young woman characterized marijuana use as an innocent enjoyment. "Who I hang with, me, my friends, we smoke," she said. But she added she wouldn't want to see the drug legalized. She regarded crack cocaine with greater concern. "I don't appreciate it," she said. "I got my son out here to worry about."
New Britain has been dealing with street gangs for decades, but in recent years they have taken on a more sinister character. "Before, it was like those gangs in 'West Side Story'," Captain Beatty said. "It was kids just hanging out together, getting into fights. Then rock cocaine came in."
A 23-year veteran of the city force, Captain Beatty sounded almost wistful as he continued: "Gangs used to be about love, honor and companionship. Now all that's gone. It's just about the money." Within 24 hours, police officers said all but one of 15 people sought had been netted.
"The objective of the operation was to arrest street-level dealers in Mount Pleasant," said Lieut. Edward Kasche, commander of the State Police Statewide Cooperative Crime Control Task Force. "It went very well," he said.
Nevertheless, it was a small operation by recent standards. Earlier in the year, the target had been the Jungle Brothers, a less geographically confined gang. Last May, 22 people were arrested following a racketeering investigation of that gang by New Britain Police and another arm of the State Police, the Statewide Narcotics Unit.
By comparison, the Hilltop bust "is maintenance work," said Christopher L. Morano, a prosecutor with the Gang and Continuing Criminal Activity Bureau. The objective, he added, is to get drug dealers off the streets and send the message that the police are aware of what is going on.
At a time when gang activity is reportedly in decline throughout Connecticut, New Britain stands out as bucking the trend. In addition to the Jungle Brothers, reportedly still active although reeling from the May operation, there are two other major gangs: Los Solidos and Netas.
Mr. Morano said the problem in New Britain seems to be related to law enforcement successes in larger cities like Hartford. "As heat was pressed into the big cities, for some reason we're finding that many gang members would go to New Britain," he said. "They either started up many of the same gangs with the same names, or they created coalitions with other transient gang members."
"I would call New Britain the United Nations of gangs in Connecticut," he added. "There are more potential trouble spots there than anywhere else in the state."
Chief among them may be North and Oak, a downtown section in the north-central part of the city that reportedly remains one of the few open-air drug markets left in Connecticut. "You can stand there and see them deal," said Richard Lopes, a coordinator with the Neighborhood Housing Services, which serves New Britain housing developments.
Other areas of the city are quieter, though, and more indicative of a trend for the better. "The police have done a great job," Mr. Lopes said. "Drug dealers are always going to be there, but they're trying to get them out of public view, from destroying the character of the neighborhood."
It could be worse, and, in fact, it has been. There have been two murders this year attributed to gang violence, not including the Mount Pleasant killing. That's down from 10 reported in 1995. Gang violence reached its peak in November of 1993, when an 18-year-old student and member of the Latin Kings gang was fatally shot outside New Britain High School. City officials agree the situation has been steadily improving since then.
Yet the drugs remain. In the Jungle Brothers sting operation, which followed seven months of investigation, the police said they seized $40,000 in cash and close to three pounds of crack cocaine.
In other undercover purchases, Mr. Morano said, the police made small buys. "Here," he said, "we were able to make large, large buys, ounces, multi-ounces of cocaine, which in the scheme of things is a good size. They're going for thousands of dollars a shot."
One reason New Britain is so attractive to gangs is mobility. The city is a nexus for several important highways, including Interstate 84 and Route 9.
"We are a corridor," said Police Chief William J. Sencio. "We have folks from New York that show up. Because we got started late, word got out that New Britain was fertile ground."
Such factors have helped the city further cultivate an already tough reputation. Not everyone feels it is completely deserved.
"New Britain is not the gang capital of central Connecticut," Mayor Lucian Pawlak said. "Most of it is image, with a definite sprinkling of reality."
It is an image New Britain cannot afford, not with an 11 percent unemployment rate and only one local business, Stanley Tools, that employs more than 1,000 people. Mayor Pawlak pointed out that the budget for law enforcement is tight, which is why outside aid like the State Police task force and grants from the state and Federal Government are especially appreciated.
"Our biggest objective is to use all the tools available," he said. "We're still looking for state and Federal help. But ultimately, when you're fighting the drug culture, policing can only go so far. You can't make real headway without education."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the result of a recent early morning raid at a New Britain housing complex, state and city police officers found 14 of 15 people wanted on drug charges. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STATE POLICE STATEWIDE COOPERATIVE CRIME CONTROL TASK FORCE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE POLICE STATEWIDE COOPERATIVE CRIME CONTROL TASK FORCE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BRITAIN (CONN); UNITED STATES (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); CANNABIS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); GANGS (63%); 

PERSON: SLOCUM, BILL SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



369 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Nathan Hale's Schoolhouse, Looking for a Home Again

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
NATHAN HALE, Connecticut's official state hero, was hanged by the British as a spy on Sept. 22, 1776. His schoolhouse, however, goes marching on . . . and on . . . and on . . .
The one-room shingled schoolhouse, with a chimney at the back, has been moved so many times around the little city of New London (7.3 square miles, about 30,000 people) that a common local jest is that it should be on wheels, or roller skates. And now there are two separate plans to move the schoolhouse one more time -- presumably the last time -- within the old whaling city. 
 The saga of the wandering schoolhouse dates to 1774 when Hale was hired as its schoolmaster. He arrived at the little building, Union Grammar School on State Street, with good credentials. A native of Coventry, he had been educated at Yale College in New Haven and then spent one school year teaching school in East Haddam.
The proprietors of the New London school were happy with the new teacher, and he with his job. But after a year, he quit, explaining his rationale in a letter: "School-keeping is a business of which I was always fond, but since my residence in this town everything has conspired to render it more agreeable. I have never thought of quitting it but with my life, but at present there seems an opportunity for more extended public service."
He joined a Connecticut regiment for service in the Revolution. In little more than a year, he would be dead, and immortalized by the words: "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country."
The schoolhouse survived as a memento of his life, and a tie to a time when Connecticut was a British Colony, but it too has seen its share of danger.
A chronology of the schoolhouse, supplied by the Connecticut Sons of the American Revolution, which owns the building, reveals that it remained on State Street for more than half a century after Hale's death, then was moved to Union and Golden streets in 1830, to be used as a private home.
Thus it remained until just after the turn of this century when the S.A.R. bought it and moved it to the city's burial ground on Huntington Street. It was there until 1966 when it was moved again, to Crystal Avenue, next to the old town mill. In 1975 it was shifted again because the new Gold Star bridge, spanning the Thames River from New London to Groton, was perched above it.
Back went the schoolhouse to State Street, this time squeezed in between City Hall and a church, and State Street wasn't even State Street, officially, anymore. It had been converted into a pedestrian mall and renamed Captain's Walk, a big hope for the redevelopment of New London's downtown.
It was at this time that Robert C. Weller, president of Mitchell College and a scholar and authority on Nathan Hale, led a movement to move the schoolhouse to the college campus a few miles away.
It appeared to be a done deal when the S.A.R. offered to sell the schoolhouse to the college for one dollar and the college trustees voted $30,000 for the move. Mitchell, a junior college, even erected a statue of Nathan Hale and named one of its buildings Nathan Hale Hall in anticipation of the move.
It never became a reality, however, because of last-minute political pressure to keep it where it was. The fear was that the absence of the schoolhouse would hurt the chances for success of Captain's Walk.
Eventually, Captain's Walk failed anyway, the idea of a pedestrian mall was abandoned, and State Street became State Street again, open for cars. Now, suddenly, the old school was in the way again. So it was moved again in 1988 by the city, but only a few hundred feet to a little plaza down State Street near the railroad station.
There it has remained, an 18th- century school, no longer open to visitors, near a late-20th century parking garage. And now, rather quietly, two separate plans have been advanced to take it elsewhere, a possibility that has met with some interest by officials of the Sons of the American Revolution, which still owns the building, and who think the city has not treated it well.
Howard Dodd of Groton Long Point, the property steward of the S.A.R., said the city did a "terrible job" when it last moved the schoolhouse. Instead of a footing, non-conpacted rubble was used as a foundation for the chimney, he said. The chimney is now being propped up by wood and the back part of the building is sagging, he said. Also, he added, the city refused to give a 99-year lease on the State Street site, contending that it could not guarantee what a future council might do.
John A. Ricketts of Norwich, the state president of the S.A.R., said he does not like the present site. "It's out of place in that setting," he said. The governing body of the S.A.R. voted months ago to look into the possibility of "turning the building over to a worthwhile organization."
However, Mr. Ricketts cautioned, the building is fragile. Much work would have to be done just to get it into condition for a move, the move itself would be costly and, very important, his organization does not have money for that.
One of the two new proposals is from Frederick L. McGuire of Orange, Calif., an ex-Naval officer and retired professor of medical psychology at University of California.
Mr. McGuire is a native of New London and knew the old schoolhouse as a boy. "I used to play inside it when it was in the old cemetery," he said. He is also a l948 graduate of Mitchell College, very active in its alumni association, and became intrigued by the possibility of having the Hale schoolhouse on the campus after talking to the college's retired president, Mr. Weller, who had nearly been successful claiming it two decades ago. "The more I thought about it, the more angry I got," said Mr. McGuire.
For months, Mr. McGuire has been writing letters and running up a huge telephone bill pleading his case in Connecticut. He hopes that the 50th reunion of his class, in 1998, would vote to raise enough money to do that, but says there has been no real commitment yet. "We want what's best for the schoolhouse and best for the college," he said.
In any case, he believes that the college would provide a safe haven for the schoolhouse and allow it to be open to the public. It would also provide a centerpiece for the study of American history, he said, and enhance the reputation of the college.
He has been backed by the long-retired Mr. Weller who fears for the physical safety of the school where it now stands. "Sooner or later, there's going to be an accident there," he said. One time, he added, he saw the building set on fire by a vandal but fortunately the blaze was quickly extinguished.
The second schoolhouse offer came in October from Dr. Dorothy Leib, a former member of the New London City Council and chairwoman of the city's 350th anniversary celebration this year. She would like to relocate the schoolhouse to property of the Hempsted houses, two historical homes owned by the state Antiquarian and Landmarks Society about half a mile away from the present site. This would involve using close to $20,000 left over from the anniversary celebration to help finance the move.
"It would be where people could look at it," she said, "and it wouldn't be shaken all the time as it is now, from vibrations from trains and heavy traffic."
City officials and others interested in the schoolhouse have mixed reactions about moving it, and where.
Mayor William Satti's reaction was, "Here we go again." He said he would not want the school to be moved -- "It's a beautiful spot and hundreds of thousands of cars go by it each year."
The New London City Manager, Richard M. Brown, said he believes that Mitchell College is a little out of the way as a home for the school. However, he added, there is talk in the city of a trolley to take people around to local historical attractions and the argument could be made that the college is close to another attraction, Monte Cristo Cottage, the boyhood home of the playwright Eugene O'Neill.
"Absolutely wonderful," said Louise Showwalter about relocating the school on the college campus. She is the director of the nation's oldest custom house, now a museum on Bank Street, another of the attractions that could be tied together by a trolley. The college, she said, "would be most appropriate for the schoolhouse; Nathan Hale was a schoolteacher."
Some of the S.A.R. members seem to be in favor of a move to the Mitchell campus. "I think it's great," said Fillmore Buchanan of Gales Ferry, a former president of the state association. "The college would make a beautiful location."
Stephen Lee, a former president of the local S.A.R. chapter, also said he would favor moving it. "It may inspire college students," he said.
But New London's historian, Sally Ryan, said she would hate to see the schoolhouse far away from the center of town, as did John W. Shannahan, director of the Connecticut Historical Commission. "It takes it out of context," Mr. Shannahan said. "It's like moving Mount Vernon out to Baltimore."
He also questioned the idea of having such an important historical building on a college campus. "The mission of an educational institution is education," he said, not historical preservation.
The only sure bet is that something is going to happen with the old schoolhouse, either a move somewhere else or major rehabilitation work, although where the money for that would come from is anyone's guess. The schoolhouse is in precarious shape and members of the organization that owns it think the city of New London has done them wrong. In a larger sense, it seems that the old schoolhouse deserved more respect from a lot of people in the more than two centuries that have passed since a 20-year-old schoolteacher walked away from it, and into history.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nathan Hale schoolhouse at its present site, a busy corner in downtown New London. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: S A R (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HALE, NATHAN, SCHOOLHOUSE (NEW LONDON, CONN); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION CHRONOLOGIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL NATHAN HALE (67%); NATHAN HALE HALL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



370 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
The Growing Nonprofit Partnership With For-Profits

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
TROUBLE not of their making has made partners of Carlton Collier and Martin Horwitz, one from the nonprofit world, the other a private owner.
They are working together on a rehabilitation project in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn that illustrates the new ties forming between the nonprofit and for-profit sectors as public subsidies for low-income housing development shrink. 
 These cutbacks mean that public assistance that benefits low-income people must concentrate on preserving the existing, occupied housing stock. The nonprofit organizations that heretofore concentrated on developing tax-foreclosed buildings that the city had owned are now joining in the process of upgrading occupied buildings that have never been in city ownership.
In the process, the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development is demonstrating the flexibility of its participation loan program, through which public and private loans are used to finance the modernization of buildingwide systems that all properties periodically require.
But even preservation work in occupied buildings in low-income neighborhoods -- much less costly than city takeover and eventual conveyance to new ownership after reconstruction at public expense -- is being set back by the cessation in new commitments for Federal housing subsidies under the Section 8 program.
These subsidies are rent supplements that pay the difference between an affordable rent -- 30 percent of income -- and the economic rent that a rehabilitated property needs to meet its expenses.
Carlton Collier is the project manager of a nonprofit entity called Community Assisted Tenant Controlled Housing, known as Catch, a citywide mutual housing association financed by the Parodneck Foundation, based in Manhattan. Martin Horwitz is a principal in MFA Construction Inc., of Great Neck, L.I. He and his partner, David H. Schwartz, own and manage 16 properties with 1,100 apartments in New York City.
In Crown Heights their two organizations are partners in the resuscitation of three side-by-side buildings known as Balfour Court, on Sterling Place along the long block between Utica Avenue and Rochester Avenue. These old walk-ups -- Nos. 1470, 1484 and 1480 -- acquired a certain local infamy under a former ownership. A crack factory prospered in one building, a tenant was caught running a veritable store for stolen goods and police officers of the 77th Precinct became constant visitors.
Balfour Court never fell into city ownership. Instead, a bankruptcy court appointed a receiver to run the building, while Catch sought to buy it through the bankruptcy proceedings. But for a project of the size of Balfour Court the nonprofit needed a financial and construction partner.
The Brooklyn office of the Community Preservation Corporation, a bank consortium that lends for housing rehabilitation, led the nonprofit to MFA Construction, which has a record of rehabilitation success. Now Catch is handling the community work, tenant relations and renting-up at Balfour Court, and MFA is overseeing the construction and management.
The financing for the job also illustrates partnership: The equity of $1.8 million was provided through the New York Equity Fund, the entity that raises tax-credit financing from the corporate world for the Local Initiatives Support Corporation and the Enterprise Foundation, two organizations that work with nonprofit community groups to develop low-income housing.
At Balfour Court, tax-credit financing is being utilized for the first time in the rehabilitation of a privately owned building that has remained partially tenanted. "In the past, tax-credit financing was mainly used for doing vacant buildings," said William R. Frey, director of the New York office of the Enterprise Foundation. "Now there's a need for financing for preserving occupied buildings."
About half of the 60 nonprofit organizations that have acquired development financing through the Enterprise Foundation are now using private companies for management purposes, Mr. Frey said. Some relationships have evolved to the point where the two entities are considering joint development, he said. "The community groups are finding it makes economic sense," Mr. Frey said. "It's healthy for the development world."
Less healthy are the prospects of bringing these partnerships to bear in buildings like Balfour Court without Section 8 subsidies.
I N the old days, Section 8 would be available to tenants who could not afford the post-rehabilitation restructured rents," said Mr. Schwartz, a partner in the development group. Now, instead, the city must provide more low-interest long-term financing, the equity subsidy from the sale of tax credit must be higher, or the rents for vacant apartments must be higher in order to make a project work. At Balfour Court, all three techniques were used.
The total development cost is projected at $6,050,000, or $63,000 per apartment, Mr. Schwartz said. That includes an acquisition cost of about $1 million, plus a sizable amount of work, costing $33,000 per apartment in pure construction costs for buildings in severe distress. Seventy-seven percent of the total development cost has been supplied through public programs -- low-interest loans, a Federal grant and tax-credit financing. A conventional loan came from the Community Preservation Corporation.
All of this has created an opportunity for 21-year-old Tanika Bullard. An assistant to the owner of a small publishing company in Manhattan, she has rented a third-floor two-bedroom apartment for herself and her 9-month-old son, Tyshaun. The rent is $605 a month.
"This will be my first move away from home," said Ms. Bullard. She has lived with her mother and grandmother in a rented apartment in a brownstone in the Clinton Hill area of Brooklyn all her life.
Another new tenant will be Ethel Smokes, 44, coming from a much smaller two-bedroom apartment on Franklin Avenue, eight blocks from her new apartment, with her 20-year-old son, Don Browne. Ms. Smokes is a nurse's aide working in a private home. At $603 a month for her fourth-floor two-bedroom, her new rent will be less than her present $655 a month.
"It's worthwhile renting this apartment if you qualify," said Ms. Smokes. "Not everyone qualifies."
The more conventional projects that use participation loan financing do not need the supplemental financing that Balfour Court required. The level of work is less comprehensive, and the rent-paying capacity of the tenants is higher.
In Washington Heights, Lemle & Wolff, a Bronx-based owner-manager, is about to close on a loan for work at 530 Audubon Avenue, a five-story walk-up. In Inwood, in northern Manhattan, it is in construction on improvements to a 20-unit walk-up at 54 Vermilyea Avenue. No tax-credit financing was required for either job. The city is putting up half the financing needed. No rent restructuring is expected.
At 1740 Grand Avenue in the Morris Avenue section of the Bronx, PWB Management Company, headed by Peter Bourbeau, is doing about $2.2 million in work with a participation loan. In this case, tax-credit financing was required.
"Every year I will have to go door-to-door to ask tenants their income," said Mr. Bourbeau. Enough tenants have earnings low enough to qualify the property for this financing, which makes a rent restructuring, and Section 8 assistance, unnecessary.
Gloria Blakeney, a licensed Head Start teacher, and her husband, Hazel, a bus driver, are among the beneficiaries. Their two-bedroom apartment is so large that Mrs. Blakeney can handle five preschoolers every day from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M.
But as a 13-year resident, their rent is only $532 a month. "They're doing a lot of renovation now," Mrs. Blakeney said. "We're getting a modern stove, a larger refrigerator, and new sinks and vanities in the bathrooms. Our rent is going up $25 a month in our new lease. I'm willing to pay for all the things I'm getting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Balfour Court, left, in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, Carlton Collier, partner in project, rear, shows kitchen to prospective tenants. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (60%); BALFOUR COURT (90%); COMMUNITY ASSISTED TENANT CONTROLLED HOUSING (69%); ENTERPRISE FOUNDATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALFOUR COURT (90%); COMMUNITY ASSISTED TENANT CONTROLLED HOUSING (69%); ENTERPRISE FOUNDATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); FORECLOSURE (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S WILLIAM R FREY (60%); CARLTON COLLIER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



371 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
As Old Offices Languish, the New in Newark Lease

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
IT was once a prestigious corporate address in downtown Newark. But in the last five years, as the operator's lease wound down, there was a marked decline in capital investment in the classic, 1930's office tower at 744 Broad Street, leading tenants to move out and more than doubling the building's vacancy rate to about 70 percent, brokers and the owner say.
Because of this, the wedding cake-style, 543,548-square-foot structure -- at 35 stories one of the tallest in the state -- is now on the market. It is part of the city's ample supply of vacant secondary office space. 
 The building's high vacancy rate underscores the widening gulf between older and newer buildings that make up the 11-million-square-foot downtown office market, which crumbled as the middle-class exodus and a poor economy vacuumed commerce from the downtown core in the 60's and 70's.
The vacancy rate for the 4.6 million square feet of prime space -- much of it in the four-building, 2.5 million-square-foot Gateway office and hotel complex where the last structure was complete a decade ago -- is 4.4 percent. For the 6.6 million square feet of secondary space, centered in the Military Park and Broad Street areas, it is 32.6 percent, according to the Newmark Partners brokerage in Mountainside, a subsidiary of the Manhattan-based Newmark & Company. It is the exclusive marketing agent for 744 Broad Street.
The dichotomy, in many ways, reflects what is happening throughout the 11-county northern New Jersey marketplace, where there is a dwindling supply of Class A space. The difference is that while the lack of such space has caused activity in other markets to filter to secondary buildings the same has not happened so far in Newark.
But the sellers of 744 Broad Street, like city officials and some industry observers, are hoping that will change as new projects to stoke the area's revival are realized. Among them are a proposed sports complex along the Passaic River waterfront and a monorail linking the downtown more directly to Newark International Airport.
The key part of the strategy, however, is the $200 million New Jersey Performing Arts Center, the state's response to New York City's Lincoln Center, whose first phase is now rising on 12 acres between Park Place and the Passaic River.
Although the first phase, including a 2,700-seat multipurpose hall with a 500-seat studio theater, is to open next October little tangible impact has been felt so far. Whether it will create the street life needed to facilitate the recovery of the nearby Military Park and Broad Street submarkets remains an unanswered question, said Robert J. Rudin, executive director of the Edward S. Gordon brokerage offices in Saddle Brook.
As was the case with the area around Lincoln Center, it could take two decades before a full downtown economic transformation can occur, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Public Policy and Planning at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. "There is no easy answer for Newark," he said.
Still, some nearby landlords are encouraged by the new construction under way and in the offing. One landlord, the local Berger Organization, bought the old Hahne's department store on Broad Street to convert it into a retail and office complex.
"It is part of an overall amenities package," said Alfred L. Faiella, executive director of the Newark Economic Development Corporation, referring to the arts center. Corporations have asked why they should come to Newark, Mr. Faiella noted, adding: "Short of sending cab fare, we have now given them a reason to come."
TO be sure, memories of the 1967 rioting, the city's perceived image of crime and a Federal investigation of Newark officials, including Mayor Sharpe James, portend a continued uphill climb for Newark and its downtown office market.
The fact that all major highways, railroads and flight paths lead to Newark has helped fill its new office towers, like those at the Gateway complex, where safety concerns are eased by over-the-sidewalk-bridges that connect it to Pennsylvania station.
The demand is coming mostly from companies already in the city as well as from state, county and Federal agencies. There have been a limited number of outside firms evincing interest.
A big space user these days is the Prudential Insurance Company, which has its headquarters here. As part of its restructuring the insurer has over the last year relocated some 878 employees to the city and taken 129,000 additional square feet, said Rick Matthews, a spokesman, adding the process will continue into 1997.
Much of the new space was in Gateway Center I and II, the latter the only one of the four buildings in the complex that Prudential does not own. The Townsend Company of Towson, Md., is under contract to buy that 783,000-square-foot building from AT&T, underscoring the stability of the Class A market commercial brokers said.
"There have been little pinches in the arm enabling the Class A market to hold its own," said Richard S. Baumstein, an executive director at the East Rutherford office of Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage. But, he added, there is no significant growth in the marketplace from outsiders.
Given that, Mr. Baumstein said, the demand is not yet there to absorb the abundance of secondary space on the market.
Many buildings in the Broad Street and Military Park areas were built before 1977. Besides 744 Broad Street, 33 Washington Street, the half-vacant, 380,000-square-foot former headquarters of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of New Jersey is also for sale. The health-care provider now occupies nearly 800,000 square feet of space at 3 Penn Plaza East here, as well as a small amount of space at 33 Washington.
"If there was a demand you would see people jumping at the building," said Richard Travaglini. He is executive vice president at Tri-Enterprise, a division of TMC Services, a real estate services firm in Livingston that is working with Blue Cross/ Blue Shield. The private sector still perceives risks in investing in Newark, he said.
Projections are that the supply of secondary space will grow in response to corporate downsizings and mergers. For instance, Mutual Benefit Life, which was seized by state regulators after it collapsed in 1991 and is under a rehabilitation plan, will announce more cutbacks in February, said Mary Ann Green, a company spokeswoman. The goal is to reduce the company's 879-member staff by 30 percent. At that time "it may make sense" to lease some of the space at the company's 400,000-square-foot headquarters at 520 Broad Street, she said.
Meanwhile, the First Union Corporation, based in Charlotte, N.C. -- which last year acquired First Fidelity in Newark, the state's largest bank -- is to move its regional headquarters to Summit. As now planned, the move would pull out 350 administrative jobs from of the city, but 1,100 other employees would remain, said Paul Levine, a bank spokesman. He added that fewer people would mean the need for less space.
Brokers expect that to mean that some 150,000 of the 500,000 square feet of space that the bank now occupies would be returned to the market. But many say the bank's future moves remain a big question mark.
C ORPORATIONS want offices of the 21st century and if they can't get that in Newark they will go elsewhere," said Dean Hughes. There is also competition from suburban sites that are approved and easier to develop, he said, noting that some of the older buildings here might be put to alternative uses, such as housing.
Mr. Faiella of the city's Economic Development Corporation said that "residential re-use has to be looked at." But older buildings, given the proper capital investment, can also compete for their share of office tenants, he said.
The building at 744 Broad Street is owned by Newark Building Associates, whose general partner is Peter L. Malkin. Mr. Malkin, chairman of the Wien Malkin & Bettex law firm in Manhattan, has extensive holdings that include investments in the Lincoln, Graybar and Empire State Buildings.
Thomas N. Keltner Jr., a partner in the law firm, which represents the owners, said that since the owners continued to receive a fixed rent from the building they were "not legally entitled to interfere with its operation or cancel the lease of the operators," Investment Properties Associates of Manhattan. The general partners of that company are Harry B. Helmsley and Irving Schneider.
Mr. Keltner said the owners would either sell 744 Broad Street for "somewhere between $8 million and $10 million" or lease it to another operator. The Investment Properties lease expired last June.

GRAPHIC: Photos: First phase of New Jersey Performing Arts Center. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Opens next October; 744 Broad Street, now on market, has a 70% vacancy rate. (Newmark Partners)
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location of Newark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (54%); GATEWAY CENTER (60%); NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GATEWAY CENTER (60%); NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); THEATER (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



372 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
For Third Quarter of '96, a Housing-Closing Record

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER real estate offices reported a record 2,572 closings during the third quarter of this year, a 17 percent increase over the previous high of 2,205 set in the third quarter of 1994.
That means that 1996 could surpass 1994 as the busiest sales year in the county's history, according to P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors, which reported the findings. But prices remained flat or declined. 
 "So far, the fourth quarter looks like an average quarter," Mr. Mercurio said. "But in conjunction with the other quarters, the year is in contention to be a record-breaking year."
The third quarter has traditionally been the charm for home sales in Westchester. "It's a lagging indicator," Mr. Mercurio explained. "It represents sales that took place in the late spring and early summer. They usually show up in the fourth quarter because it takes a couple of months to get to the closing."
Mr. Mercurio attributed the sales spurt to increased confidence in the local economy. "I think people have the sense that the downsizing hemorrhaging has died down somewhat," he said. "Now they're hearing that companies are coming into the county. Also income levels are higher and retail sales are up. There's a growing sense of job security."
Several years ago, it was not unusual for a sales transaction to be scrapped at the 11th hour because "someone would come in and say her husband had just lost his job," said Savo Fries, president of the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. "That hasn't happened in a long time."
Brokers all over the county reported increased sales activity, particularly in the summer months. "We were very, very busy all summer until the end of August," said Carol Mele, a sales agent with Prudential Ragette, of Eastchester.
"Then things dropped off for about a month and a half," she added. "I think the election affected people. They wanted to know what was going to happen."
More than 70 percent of all sales were for single-family homes. The balance was for condominiums, co-ops and multifamily dwellings.
In the third quarter, a total of 1,835 single-family homes were sold, a 12 percent increase over the 1,637 in the same period in 1994.
"We have certain categories of houses that just fly out the door," said Ms. Fries, who is also manager of Coldwell Banker's Somers office. "Anything in new construction under $500,000 is extremely popular, and resales in the price range of the mid- to high-$200,000's are always hot."
Jamie and Jim Hasl, who were relocating from Maine, looked for about five months in Westchester and Connecticut before finding a four-bedroom colonial in a new subdivision in Somers. "We weren't looking specifically for new construction," Ms. Hasl said. "But we wanted something relatively new. We had done old before where you're remodeling the bathrooms and kitchen. We didn't want to do that again."
Incremental increases in interest rates, which took place between March and June, also helped pull people into real estate offices, according to Ms. Fries. "When the rates go up a little, it can be good for us," she said. "It's like a tease."
THE condominium market hit its highest mark in sales activity ever with a total of 361 sales in the third quarter. That exceeded by 29 percent the previous record of 280 set during the third quarter of 1994.
"Condominiums track what happens in single-family homes," Mr. Mercurio said. "They appeal to nearly the same broad range of people. You can get any price category from inexpensive to luxury."
Jennie Giannotta and her husband, Pat, decided it was time to make the move to a condominium after shoveling snow during the harsh 1995-6 winter. They had owned a house in the Bronx.
"Our children were no longer at home," Ms. Giannotta said. "There was no one else around to do all the shoveling. I said, 'Enough. I want to live someplace where I don't have to worry about this.' " In August, the couple moved into a two-bedroom condominium in Yonkers, near the Village of Bronxville.
COLDWELL BANKER'S Somers office handles most of the resales at Heritage Hills, in Somers, the county's largest condominium complex. It has more than 2,000 units so far, and is scheduled to go as high as 3,000. "I think that will be modified because of wetland and steep-slope restrictions," said Marti Lowenfeld, an associate broker with the office.
"In the last three months," Ms. Lowenfeld said, "there has been more activity in sales there than in the previous five years. I had four closings at Heritage Hills in one week."
Similarly, the sale of co-ops in the third quarter reached a level not seen since the late 1980's before the 1990 recession, according to the Board of Realtors. There were a total of 258 sales, a 25 percent increase over the 205 in the third quarter of 1994.
"I sold quite a few co-ops," said Ms. Mele. "But most of them were on the low end. We got a lot of singles, young marrieds and older people who were looking to scale down. And a lot of them were looking for bargains."
In all this frenetic sales activity, sale prices in all categories of housing have either remained flat or gone down in the third quarter.
The median price of a detached house, for example, remained fairly steady at $297,000, compared to $295,000 in the third quarter last year and $288,000 in 1994.
The median price of condominiums was $161,000, compared to $160,000 last year and $168,000 in 1994. And the median price of co-ops fell to $60,000 from $65,000 last year and $74,000 in 1994.
"People are beginning to realize that all this good sales activity doesn't mean an escalation in prices," said Ms. Fries. "I think buyers have finally succeeded in educating sellers. If you don't price your house competitively, even in a good market, it will not sell."
All this frustrates Charles Zambrano, president of the Prudential Notas agency, in Somers. "This really creates problems for me," he said. "People read about the great housing market in Westchester and say, 'If you're such hot shots why should I have to be conservative in my price?' I can't answer that question."
One reason may be that the record number of sales have not made much of a dent in the housing available, according to the Board of Realtors. Inventory of single-family homes at the end of the third quarter was 5,569, about 7 percent below last year's level during the same period.
According to the board's report, "vigorous sales activity sometimes has the effect of stimulating more properties to be listed, as owners observe encouraging results by others who have sold properties in the neighborhood."
End-of-quarter condominium inventory was 1,031, 6 percent less than last year. And the co-op inventory of 1,882 actually increased 3 percent from last year's level in spite of the high number of sales.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim and Jamie Hasl with son, Zachary, at their new four-bedroom colonial in a Somers subdivision. (Bernie Nunez for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Sales Up, Prices Steady" A record number of sales were reported by Westchester County realtors during the third quarter this year. Projected sales for 1996 are expected to exceed the previous high of 6,744 for 1994. But while the number of transactions has increased, home prices have remained steady. (Westchester County Board of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY BOARD (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS REAL ESTATE (91%); COUNTIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); HISTORY (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (65%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER P GILBERT MERCURIO (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



373 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 18; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: 20 YEARS: ROAD AND RAIL;
Stores and Cars: A Dubious Model of Change and Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: PARAMUS

 BODY:
Imagine that it is 1976, the year of the Bicentennial, the year the Oldsmobile Cutlass was America's best-selling car. Say you are driving up Route 17, approaching the Route 4 interchange. There are two lanes of traffic in either direction, separated by a grass median. There are mom-and-pop stores galore. Gas station after gas station. Woods in the distance.
Now imagine that you get stuck at the interchange for -- and let's exaggerate just a bit here -- say, 20 years. You would see, through the use of time-lapse photography, the woods disappearing; empty lots giving birth to stores; mom-and-pop operations being replaced by big-box retailers like Barnes & Noble, Comp USA and Home Depot. And you would see more cars, which, like yours, are still stuck in traffic. 
 "We're pretty much fully developed now," said Cliff Gennarelli, the Mayor of Paramus, taking a reporter on a tour and -- what else? -- getting stuck at the Route 4 and 17 interchange. "The shame of it is that most people think Paramus is an old Indian word for shopping center, when we know that it's an old Indian word for traffic."
Mr. Gennarelli's quip makes the point: In any language, Paramus's image is wedded to shopping. But even more, it is home to the worst chronic traffic jams in the state.
In many ways, what has happened on Route 17 in the past 20 years is a snapshot of the region, the country, really: a drive-through laboratory for the way people plan, build, shop and work. From the grass medians of the 1970's to the dubious distinction of being part of the most dangerous interchange in the state, Route 17 has been there, done that.
"It's a paradigm of the rest of the country's experience, but it is probably as intense a paradigm as you could find anywhere," said Chester P. Mattson, Bergen County's director of planning and economic development. "I always think of it as the distillation of the most powerful period of growth in the country's history, and also as a picture of the future, because Route 4 and 17 offer a continuously changing landscape."
The road, originally called Route 2, was built between 1927 and 1934, stretching 27.5 miles between Kearny and Mahwah and bisecting some towns, including Paramus. In the beginning, drivers would pass good hunting spots for pheasant, rabbit and fox and good farmland for celery, tomatoes and corn, said Fritz Behnke, whose family has owned Behnke's Paramus Building Company on Route 17 for many years.
In the 1950's and 60's, residential areas popped up and retailing began to flourish. At the Route 4 interchange, for instance, the Garden State Plaza opened in 1958, occupying land that was vacant, except for a popular drive-in movie theater. In Paramus, planning was basically laissez-faire, as borough officials granted businesses freedom to follow market conditions as long as they did not encroach on residential areas.
Drive up and down Route 17 a few times with old hands like Mr. Behnke and Mr. Gennarelli, and you can begin to sense the scope of that change over the last two decades.
At the Route 4 and 17 interchange, the southeast corner used to contain a strip of small stores like JR Tobacco (they also had great candy, aficionados say), Alba Contractors, a billiards hall and a place that made barstools. Less than a decade ago, the stores were torn down and eventually replaced by a Bradlees, Comp USA and Petsmart.
At the southwest corner, the Garden State Plaza expanded by 750,000 square feet last year, making it the state's biggest mall. On the northeast corner sits Paramus Plaza IV, a 10-year-old office building that replaced several homes. Alexander's department store, on the northwest corner, has been abandoned for almost a decade.
Other stretches of Route 17 have also changed dramatically. Nothing used to be on the site of what is now Levitz. Same with Kids "R" Us. Staples used to be a small restaurant. Filene's Basement expanded about 10 years ago. Soon, Bergen Bluestone will be replaced by an Office Depot. Only a handful of longtime establishments remain.
Since the 1960's, Paramus's population has barely risen beyond 26,000, and its tax rate -- $1.99 per $100 of assessed value -- is among the lowest in the county.
But office and retail space has expanded enormously.
In 1970, Paramus -- whose main business corridors are Routes 17 and 4 -- had 288,000 square feet of office space; by 1996, it was 3.47 million. In 1977, Paramus generated $716.1 million worth of retail business; in 1992 (the last year for which figures are available), it was $1.926 billion, according to the Bergen County Planning Department.
But the number of retail establishments in Paramus increased much more slowly, from 553 in 1977 to 723 in 1992, suggesting that bigger stores were doing more business. That real estate prices have risen from $3 or $4 a square foot 20 years ago to $30 today has made it even tougher for smaller stores, said Peter Wells, director of the Paramus Building Department.
All this has meant more traffic. In 1981, an estimated 88,000 vehicles a day passed through the Route 4 interchange; in 1992, that number was 126,000. And though the Paramus Police Department says the number of reported accidents hasn't changed much in 20 years, the interchange is still the worst in the state. There were 581 accidents recorded there from 1992 to 1994, 534 of which were fender-benders involving cars going in the same direction. This means that many attempted merges failed, said John Dourgarian, a spokesman for the State Department of Transportation.
Perhaps the reason those numbers aren't higher is that Route 17 has undergone substantial improvements as well, Mr Dourgarian said. In the last 15 years, the state has spent $60 million doing, among other things, the following:
* Removing the 10-to 12-foot-wide grass barriers and replacing them with concrete barriers, thereby preventing those dangerous, wait-in-the-middle-of-the-road U-turns.
* Adding a third lane north of Paramus.
* Removing the Lake Street traffic signal in Ramsey and replacing it with an overpass.
* Adding about four miles of sound walls in Ridgewood, Saddle River, Ho-Ho-Kus and Allendale.
More change is planned, including, most significantly, the Department of Transportation's $115 million project to redo the Route 4 and 17 interchange, which would demolish Alexander's and some smaller stores on the northwest corner to accommodate flyover ramps. It could begin in late 1998, and finish four years later.
To manage these changes, the borough now regulates the size of signs and prefers that new or renovated stores be further set back from Route 17, with some shrubbery as an aesthetic buffer. But no one doubts that Route 17 and Route 4 will be different 20 years from now.
 
First, Dinosaurs; Later, Bradlees
 The southeast corner of the Route 4 and 17 interchange is typical of the change that has taken place at sites along Route 17 in Paramus. Here is a look at what is and what was:
 
1996 Bradlees, Comp USA, Petsmart, DSW Shoe Warehouse
 
1980's Small office building for Stern's department store's credit operations, and a strip of small stores.
 
1960's AND 70's Fewer mom-and-pop stores, including a fortune teller, a furniture store, a law office, an electronics store. An empty lot where Bradlees now sits. And a heavily wooded area between Route 17 and Farview Avenue to the east.
 
1940's and 50's Even fewer mom-and-pop stores, and a gas station where Bradlees now sits.
 
1930's Completion of the interchange in a formerly wooded area.
 
EARLY 1900's Wooded, owned by people with houses on Farview Avenue.
 
1878 Map shows area was basically empty, except for a house owned by August Gruloth in what was called New Barbardoes Township.
 
1778 Map shows area was likely in the "deep swamp," between Zabriskie's Mill, near present-day Paramus Road, and Sluckup, near present-day Farview Avenue. (The name Sluckup apparently refers to some farmland owned by a Dutch settler whose cow "sluck up," or ate, the shirt he had left on a bush.)
 
1664 Part of a sale of land from Indians to Dutch settlers. Peremes is derived from a Lenni Lenape tribe whose name means "land where wild turkey abounds."
 
WAY BACK 20,000 years ago: standard cycle of vegetation renewal, after the final glaciation of the Ice Age.
 
WAY, WAY BACK 180 million to 230 million years ago: Flat, swampy lands in the Newark Basin, fit for dinosaurs. DAVID W. CHEN

GRAPHIC: Photos: An aerial view of the Route 17 and 4 interchange in Paramus, looking south. The state will soon spend $115 million to construct flyover ramps to try to ease congestion there.; In the mid-1940's, an Esso station and a Short Line bus station were neighbors on Route 17 north in Paramus. The site contains a Barnes & Noble store now.; In the 1950's, grassy medians divided Route 17. It would be more than 20 years before they would be replaced. The view is looking south at Prospect Avenue in Waldwick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PARAMUS BUILDING CO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PARAMUS (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W CLIFF GENNARELLI (58%); FRITZ BEHNKE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



374 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 4232 words

HEADLINE: 20 YEARS: PEOPLE

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
They did things that mattered. Some had their hands on the levers of power, and some were found to have had their hands in the till.
Some of them were big people doing big things, and others were ordinary people suddenly doing extraordinary things. Some were people caught up and swept along by events. 
 In whatever ways, the people below touched their times. There are others who could have been named, but the ones below earned their niches, for good and bad. They are some of the reasons New Jerseyans can look back a year or a decade or 20 years and say, "Sure, I remember."
 
1976
 
RICHARD J. HUGHES
Education and Taxation
There were lingering doubts that Chief Justice Richard J. Hughes, a former two-term Governor used to negotiation and compromise, was decisive enough to be the state's top judge.
The doubts were dashed in the summer of 1976, when the New Jersey Supreme Court concluded that the State Legislature had failed to provide enough money to meet standards of the Public School Education Act passed the year before. That act was passed to comply with a court ruling that heavy reliance on local property taxes discriminated against poorer school districts.
Under Chief Justice Hughes, the court ordered the schools closed and issued an injunction against spending of state and local money for education until the lawmakers did something.
They got the message. The Legislature passed a state income tax, an issue it had fought over for a decade. Gov. Brendan T. Byrne signed it, and the schools reopened.
The only man to be both Governor and Chief Justice in New Jersey, Richard Hughes retired from the bench in 1979 and was a lawyer in private practive until his death on Dec. 7, 1992, at 83.
 
1977
 
BRENDAN T. BYRNE
The Comeback Kid
Brendan T. Byrne defined the year, and the year defined him.
In the spring, the incumbent Governor seemed to be fumbling and vulnerable. He had spent his political capital backing a state income tax that he said was necessary for schools and other things. But it did not go down well, and his opponents said it amounted to a broken campaign promise.
Not yet a lame duck but certainly a wounded one: that was the perception of the Governor in the spring, when a reputable poll put his approval rating at 17 percent and nine members of his own party challenged him in the Democratic Primary. The Governor won renomination, only to find himself 10 points behind his Republican opponent, State Senator Raymond H. Bateman, who hammered him again and again over the tax issue.
What else do you have to hit me with? That was the question Mr. Byrne hurled back at his challenger.
The voters heard. They re-elected Governor Byrne comfortably. After his second term, which ended in 1981, Mr. Byrne became a lawyer in private practice.
 
1978
 
BILL BRADLEY
He Shoots, He Scores
Bill Bradley turned 35 in the summer of 1978, old for a professional athlete, which he had stopped being just a year before, and young for a United States Senator, which he very much wanted to be.
He had been an all-America basketball player at Princeton (and a history major and Rhodes Scholar) and had played a decade for the Knicks, helping them win two championships. He also found time to earn a master's degree from Oxford University in politics, philosophy and economics.
The venerable Clifford P. Case, a moderate Republican, was running for re-election in 1978. Looking ahead to the fall, Mr. Case committed a sin that is unpardonable, in sports or politics. He was overconfident. And so he lost in the primary to a little-known conservative, Jeffrey Bell.
Mr. Bradley won easily in November, becoming the youngest member of the Senate. For the next 18 years, he would be known as a moderate Democrat, one of the better minds in the Senate, an expert in (what else?) history, politics, philosophy and economics. Not to mention foreign policy, taxes -- and civility.
When he retires from the Senate in a few weeks, Bill Bradley will be 53.
 
1979
 
THE GAS STATION ATTENDANT
Running on Empty
When a motorist pulls into a gas station and says, "Fill 'er up," he doesn't want the guy at the pump to laugh.
But for several months in the spring and summer of 1979, people in New Jersey and across America couldn't be sure where their next gallon was coming from. There were sales on odd-even days, there were limits on how much could be bought, and there were lines way down the street.
It was all a disturbing reminder of the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo, and of the vulnerability of a nation that usually took oil for granted.
With the pro-American Shah's ouster from Iran and the ascendancy of an anti-American fundamentalist government, oil from Iran stopped coming to America. Nervous oil companies limited their shipments to suppliers, who in turn limited what went to the gas stations.
There were dark suspicions that the oil companies were not altogether unhappy about the whole thing, that they found an excuse to charge a lot more. The companies denied any conspiracy, and some independent analysts said the oil companies had only followed Energy Department advice when they stockpiled supplies.
Eventually, the crisis eased, and there was enough gasoline (although at higher prices) to go around.
Until the next time.
 
1980
 
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS Jr.
Where Is Thy Sting?
As the year began, Harrison A. Williams Jr. was, unofficially, New Jersey's Senator for Life. A Democrat, he had been in the Senate for more than two decades and was a friend to the Kennedy family.
Then his life disintegrated under circumstances that sounded like the plot line of a bad novel. Word leaked out in February that the Senator and various other officials had been implicated in an undercover operation featuring Federal agents posing as Arab sheiks and businessmen on the lookout for politicians who could be bought.
Senator Williams was said to have agreed to use his considerable political influence to help a longtime friend obtain government contracts for a titanium mine in return for a piece of the action.
The bizarre scandal was known as Abscam. Before it was over, Senator Williams, 6 Congressmen and 13 other people had been convicted of various crimes of greed. Harrison Williams was the fourth Senator in American history to be convicted of crimes while in office. He lost his seat and was sentenced to three years in prison. When he got out, he became a legislative analyst for the New Jersey Building and Construction Trades Council. He will be 77 on Dec. 10.
 
1981
 
THOMAS H. KEAN
Squeaker to Laugher
"The people have elected Tom Kean," Representative Jim Florio, a Democrat from Runnemede, said in conceding the race for Governor to his Republican rival.
What was unusual about the concession was its timing: 27 days after the election. Mr. Kean, a 46-year-old Republican from Livingston and a former Speaker of the State Assembly, won by fewer than 1,800 votes out of 2.3 million cast.
Mr. Kean was a political and social blueblood (there were Roosevelts in his ancestry), but he was quick to smile, hard to dislike.
But would he be just a one-termer? After all, the election was the closest in state history, and Mr. Florio's concession came after a recount. And the Democrats still controlled the Legislature.
Four years later, riding a wave of prosperity, he crushed his Democratic opponent, Peter Shapiro, by a margin of more than 2 to 1 and helped Republicans take over the Assembly. After leaving office in 1989, he became president of Drew University.
 
1982
 
MARSHA STERN
Come In, Secaucus
Since the black-and-white days of Kukla, Fran and Ollie, New Jersey had not had its own VHF commercial television station. By the early 1980's, it was one of two states so cursed. The other was Delaware, with less than one-tenth the Garden State's population.
If New Jersey had its own station, the theory went, the state would no longer be seen as a tank-lined strip of concrete between Big Apple and Brotherly Love.
The New Jersey Coalition for Fair Broadcasting had been trying since its inception in 1971 to get a VHF license for the state. Spurred by the coalition's executive director, Marsha Stern, a communications teacher at Rutgers, the Federal Communications Commission pressured New York and Philadelphia stations not to ignore New Jersey, and Senator Bradley won passage of a bill granting an automatic five-year license renewal to any station that switched its license to New Jersey or Delaware.
RKO General, which ran WOR-TV Channel 9, was in trouble because its parent company had been accused of illegal political contributions. Facing F.C.C. review, it agreed in 1992 to move from New York to Secaucus.
 
1983
 
ROBERT. N. WILENTZ
Building Open Doors
Oddly enough, the New Jersey Supreme Court's most important ruling of the year did not exactly break new ground. Rather, it shored up old ground.
Eight years earlier, the court headed by Chief Justice Hughes had issued its Mount Laurel ruling, decreeing that suburbs could not use zoning to close their doors to the poor.
By 1983, Robert N. Wilentz had been Chief Justice for four years, and he was convinced that some suburbs were finding creative ways to evade the ruling.
So under his guidance, the court held unanimously that suburbs that did not have their "fair share" of the poor had to allow for construction of low-cost housing, seek government subsidies for it and offer tax breaks for builders.
Prodded by the ruling, the Legislature adopted a compromise plan that did not please everyone. But in one sense, it was fitting. Some who followed Justice Wilentz's his career said he had been a good Chief Justice partly because he understood the relationship between the law and politics, how the engines of the latter had to drive the theories of the former.
Justice Wilentz died last July 23, a few weeks after announcing that inoperable cancer had forced his retirement seven months before he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70.
 
1984
 
THE YUPPIE
I <heart> MY BMW
In a sense, they were the very essence of New Jersey. Their parents conceived them just after World War II, and these offspring became a great force. Baby boomers, they were called -- one in three New Jerseyans.
When they grew up, they wanted to live in houses, or town houses, or condominiums. They wanted to live near a Great City but not in it. They wanted to live in the suburbs. Heck, they were the suburbs, as their parents had been.
They were Yuppies. (Wasn't that word originally a quasi-acronym for young upwardly mobile professionals?) They were still young in 1984, or at least they had not crossed the Rubicon of 40.
Many of them felt upwardly mobile because they were. The recession of the early 80's was a distant memory, and the stock market nose dive and real estate slowdown of the late 80's was still over a far horizon.
Shopping malls, lawns, porch decks, pools, barbecues. These were the trappings of Yuppiedom. The Yuppies drove the marketplace and drove to the marketplace. They loved cars. Come to think of it, didn't we see these people at the gas station lines back in 1979?
 
1985
 
KAREN ANN QUINLAN
Death 'With Dignity'
She never knew. Her fate was debated for years by lawyers and doctors, clergymen and parents, but she never knew.
Karen Ann Quinlan was 21 on April 14, 1975, the day she swallowed a combination of Valium and alcohol that put her in a coma from which many doctors said she had no hope of emerging.
Or was it a coma, exactly? And was there really no hope? At least one doctor said she showed some minimal brain activity and occasional voluntary muscle movement.
Karen's adoptive parents, Joseph and Julia Quinlan of Roxbury Township in Morris County, petitioned a court for permission to remove her from life support so she could die "with grace and dignity." The state opposed the move, saying removal would be tantamount to homicide. The attending physician said he opposed removal. The hospital in Denville asked for immunity from prosecution.
The law was not ready to deal with medical advances that could prolong breathing and heartbeat long after consciousness had ceased.
On March 31, 1976, the New Jersey Supreme Court issued its landmark 7-0 ruling: The constitutional right to privacy encompassed a person's decision to forgo life-sustaining medical treatment in certain circumstances. The court said Karen's father could decide for her.
After she was disconnected from a respirator, she confounded the experts. She remained unconscious, she withered to 65 pounds, but she breathed on her own. She breathed until June 11, 1985, when she died at a nursing home in Morris Plains.
Her case had begun the right-to-die movement. But she never knew.
 
1986
 
PHIL SIMMS
Greatness, at Long Last
For much of his eight years with the Giants, a lot of fans said he wasn't good enough to take the team all the way. He had been bedeviled by injuries, including a season-ender when he smashed his hand on an opponent's helmet in an early game.
But Phil Simms was nothing if not tough. He was 30 years old in 1986, and he had not been making the commute all those years from his home in Bergen County to Giants Stadium for nothing.
Everything clicked for Simms and the Giants in 1986. He completed 259 of 468 passes in the regular season for nearly 3,500 yards and 21 touchdowns. The Giants won 14 games, losing only two, and crushed the San Francisco 49ers and the Washington Redskins in the playoffs.
Oh, yes. In the Super Bowl, the Giants routed the Denver Broncos, 39-20. Simms completed 22 of 25 passes for 268 yards and was named the game's most valuable player.
Said Coach Bill Parcells, "This dispelled for the last time any myth about Phil Simms." No one disagreed.
But just before the 1994 season, the Giants decided they couldn't afford to pay $2.325 million to an aging signal-caller and put him on waivers, ending his career. Since then, he has been a color commentator for ESPN and has been a spokesman for Amerihealth, a health maintenance organization.
 
1987
 
BABY M
Mother, Meet Mom
For many months in 1987, she was known as Baby M, and she was anything but an unwanted child.
The year before, Mary Beth Whitehead, a housewife married to a sanitation worker, had accepted $10,000 from William and Elizabeth Stern of Tenafly to bear them a child. The Sterns, unable to have one, hired Ms. Whitehead, who was artificially impregnated with Mr. Stern's semen.
Ms. Whitehead, who already had children, decided after giving birth that she wanted to keep the little girl after all. The Sterns sued.
The monthlong trial caused a sensation. The case wasn't just a breach-of-contract issue, or one of custody, it brought up issues of social class. The Sterns were a professional couple (he was a biochemist and she a pediatrician) who lived an existence light-years from that of Baby M's natural mother.
In March 1987, a judge upheld the validity of the $10,000 surrogacy contract, ruled that Mrs. Stern could adopt the baby, whom the Sterns called Melissa, and stripped Ms. Whitehead of any parental rights.
But the next year, while letting the Sterns keep Melissa, the New Jersey Supreme Court declared that Ms. Whitehead was not only the natural mother "but also the legal mother, and is not to be penalized one iota because of the surrogate contract," which the court held to be illegal in any event.
The Supreme Court court ruling was the first by any state high court arising from a surrogate mother's fight to keep a child. Ms. Whitehead was granted visiting rights, which were broadened after a hearing in a lower court.
The Sterns were termed "extraordinarily good parents" by one judge. But Ms. Whitehead, whose marriage collapsed after the ordeal, had won a point, and a point of law: She was the mother.
 
1988
 
JOE CLARK
Miscreants' Anathema
By 1988, Joe Clark had been principal of Eastside High School in Paterson for six years. He had made a lot of admirers as a tough disciplinarian, and he had cultivated more than a few enemies. It was easy to see why he had plenty of each.
"Leeches, miscreants and hoodlums" he labeled one batch of students as he tossed them out of school.
Mr. Clark had setbacks (he had to readmit the leeches, miscreants and hoodlums, because only the school board has authority to expel), but many students and parents liked his bullhorn-and-baseball-bat corridor discipline. Eastside High, with almost 3,000 students, most of them poor, was no longer a "caldron of terror and violence," as one report termed it.
Education Secretary William J. Bennett praised Mr. Clark as an example of what strong leadership could do, and early in 1988 he was offered a job in the Reagan Administration.
Mr. Clark didn't take it. He stayed at Eastside through 1988, when a movie about his exploits was filmed. The next year, he took a job with Essex County. Now he heads the Essex County Youth House, supervising youths charged with serious crimes.
No one has suggested he isn't tough enough for the job.
 
1989
 
JIM FLORIO
Hat in the Ring
Whether one liked him or not, no one could deny that Jim Florio was a fighter. His razor-thin loss to Thomas H. Kean in 1981 must have been at least as painful as the punches from his youthful boxing days that left a dent in his face.
Mr. Florio bided his time, working hard in Congress on his pet issues: toxic-waste disposal, transportation and the environment.
Not that hard work was new for him. A high school dropout who joined the Navy, he later earned his equivalency diploma, went to college, then to law school while working at night as a janitor to support his family.
Tough, driven, not socially easy like Tom Kean -- that was Jim Florio, 52 years old in 1989. "My philosophy has always been, I have one pair of shoes because I have one pair of feet," he once said.
He had had eight years to study his 1981 defeat. In 1989, on his third try for the Governor's mansion, he was elected over Representative Jim Courter. And he won the way he did few other things: comfortably.
Since his narrow defeat to Christine Todd Whitman in 1993, he has been a lawyer in private practice. He is contemplating yet another run for Governor.
 
1990
 
JOHN BUDZASH
Days of Rage
Once in a great while there comes a towering figure who changes the direction of government, perhaps of history. Oliver Cromwell, Abraham Lincoln, John Budzash . . .
Who?
John Budzash was a 39-year-old postal worker in Howell Township. Like a lot of New Jerseyans he detested the $2.8 billion in new taxes that Governor Florio had pushed through the State Legislature. He decided to form a grass-roots organization, Hands Across New Jersey.
On a radio call-in show, he vented his rage and proposed a demonstration.
And so, on July 1, the day New Jerseyans began paying new taxes on telephone calls, toilet paper and a whole lot more, about 2,000 cars and more than 6,000 people clogged the roads leading to the state capital for an anti-tax rally. The protesters had long since rejected Mr. Florio's explanation: that he was trying to clean up a financial mess left by Tom Kean, and that the taxes were needed for education.
Mr. Budzash's organization continued to fan the anti-tax flames. That fall, Senator Bill Bradley, a Democrat, almost lost his seat because of spillover resentment. His opponent was Christine Todd Whitman.
 
1991
 
GERALD McCANN
Keep the Change
Gerald McCann was never accused of being a dishonest Mayor of Jersey City. It was what he did when he wasn't Mayor that got him into trouble.
Between the end of his first term, in 1985, and his re-election in 1989 Mr. McCann was a development consultant. A savings and loan institution in Boca Raton, Fla., became his partner in a development firm, and Mr. McCann promoted a plan to build a marina at Liberty State Park.
The bank put up $300,000 in February 1986, six months before the marina proposal was due. Mr. McCann missed the deadline and never did submit a proposal, so the bank lost most of its investment. Mr. McCann was guilty of bad business judgment, his lawyer said. Federal prosecutors said he was guilty of fraud and income-tax evasion for diverting the bank's money to his own consulting company and spending it on a Mercedes, furs, jewelry and other luxuries.
A jury preferred the prosecutors' version. On Dec. 17, 1991, Mr. McCann was convicted of 15 counts of fraud and tax evasion. He was sentenced to more than two years in prison. As a convicted felon he was removed from office. Now back in Jersey City, Mr. McCann is said to be considering another campaign for Mayor.
 
1992
 
GARY SPATH
Teaneck Shattered
The lives of Gary Spath and Phillip Pannell intersected one April night two years earlier. Mr. Spath was a 29-year-old Teaneck police officer when he and a partner responded to a call that a black youth had been seen with a gun near a school.
Officer Spath's partner brushed his hands across the youth's jackett, said he thought he had a gun. The youth ran, the officers followed. They said he turned toward them twice with his hand in his jacket pocket.
Office Spath fired twice. The first bullet missed. The second struck Phillip in the back. He fell to the ground, dead at 16. The next night, a candlelight vigil for the dead youth erupted into violence as marchers attacked the Teaneck police station and broke windows.
A grand jury declined to indict Mr. Spath, but state Attorney General Robert J. Del Tufo ordered a second investigation, citing errors in the medical testimony heard by the first grand jury. The second jury indicted Mr. Spath on manslaughter charges.
In a five-and-a-half week trial early in 1992, the state tried to prove that Phillip had his hands in the air and was trying to surrender when he was shot. The jury rejected that theory and acquitted Mr. Spath.
Months later, the Pannell family accepted a $195,000 settlement in a suit against Teaneck. Mr. Spath left the police force, went into construction work, and later worked for a short-lived law enforcement magazine in South Jersey.
 
1993
 
TONI MORRISON
Poetic, and Prized
Her first novel, "The Bluest Eye," was published in 1970. Set in her Ohio hometown, it described a black girl's painful coming of age in a white-dominated society. In five subsequent novels, she established herself as one of the finest novelists in America. No, one of the finest in the world. In 1993, she won the Nobel Prize in Literature for a body of work "characterized by visionary force and poetic import."
Toni Morrison was the eighth woman and the first black woman to win the prize. Interviewed at Princeton University, where she had taught creative writing since 1989, she called the honor "a palpable tremor of delight" and said she was totally surprised.
Perhaps she shouldn't have been. Five years earlier, her novel "Beloved" won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. In 1996, she would win the National Book Foundation Medal for her contribution to American letters.
 
1994
 
EMILY MANN
Tony Express
It was as though Broadway were extended south and west, all the way to Princeton and the McCarter Theater.
There are a few prizes and awards whose prestige is such that their names are instantly recognizable: Nobel, Pulitzer, Oscar, Tony. In 1994, the McCarter received a Tony Award for outstanding regional theater. Many thought the McCarter's Tony should have been dubbed the Mann award, after Emily Mann, the McCarter's artistic director since the 1990-91 season. [Page 26.]
An accomplished director and playwright and a specialist in documentary theater before she came to the McCarter, Ms. Mann wanted to shake things up.
Safe, steady, established, comfortable in the bosom of a university town. That was how many theater lovers had come to think of the McCarter before the curtain went up on Ms. Mann's tenure.
Ms. Mann loves energy and electricity, hates boredom and barriers. Her productions were not just on topically hot subjects like Winnie Mandela, anti-Semitism and white supremacy. She also put on plays by Shakespeare, Chekov and Tennessee Williams.
 
1995
 
CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN
Taxes Down, Profile Up
It was not a bad Fourth of July for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. She marched in a parade in the little Middlesex Borough of Milltown, and then she signed into law the second half of her promised 30 percent income tax reduction.
"This will build a stronger New Jersey," she declared, echoing not only the Republican Party mantra but the sentiments that led to her 1993 upset of Jim Florio, whose $2.8 billion tax package had been widely detested.
Some critics said the income tax cuts would merely drive up local taxes, because the money for governing had to come from somewhere. And they said it was a bit misleading for her to boast in mid-1995 that she was ahead of schedule in meeting her promise of a 30 percent tax cut in three years, since the reduction she signed in July would not take effect until Jan. 1, 1996.
But this was not debatable: She had seized the tax issue. She had come close to unseating Senator Bill Bradley with it in 1990. In the 1993 campaign, she won the Governor's office with it and attained a national profile.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EDUCATION LAW (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); INJUNCTIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); JUDGES (68%); INCOME TAX (64%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; HUGHES, RICHARD J (1909-83); BYRNE, BRENDAN T; BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); WILLIAMS, HARRISON A JR; KEAN, THOMAS H; STERN, MARSHA; WILENTZ, ROBERT N; QUINLAN, KAREN ANN (1954-85); SIMMS, PHIL ; BABY M; CLARK, JOE; FLORIO, JAMES J; BUDZASH, JOHN; MCCANN, GERALD DAVID H HUGHES (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



375 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Deductions Coming For Long-Term Care

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
LOOKING to a future where far more people will require long-term care, the Government is beginning to encourage Americans to pay for it themselves. The carrot being offered is a tax deduction for individuals and employers on the purchase of long-term-care insurance. The stick is criminal penalties for some people who, instead of financing their own long-term care, try to become eligible for Government-paid care by shifting assets to family members or trusts.
Officials and health care economists said the new incentives, which take effect on Jan. 1, herald sweeping changes in public policy. The Federal Government and states face daunting growth in entitlement programs like Medicaid that will soon be overrun by graying baby boomers and their parents. 
 "With this legislation, Congress is saying there are not going to be any new Government programs for long-term care," said Guenther Ruch, enforcement chief of the Wisconsin Insurance Commission.
Glenn Pomeroy, the Insurance Commissioner of North Dakota, added, "Congress is directly encouraging the private marketplace to play a greater role."
The insurance industry, which had lobbied for the tax incentives for years, is delighted with the legislation, which was tucked into the Kassebaum-Kennedy health-insurance law. The industry says millions of middle-class people will be able to receive long-term care without additional help from the Government, and big insurance companies say they are already getting a surge of requests for information about long-term care from employers and labor unions.
Under the new rules, employers will be able to deduct from their taxes the cost of providing long-term-care coverage for employees, just as they already do if they provide medical benefits. And individuals buying policies on their own will be able to deduct part of the premiums from Federal taxes if the total costs of medical and long-term care exceed 7.5 percent of income. People 51 to 60 years old can deduct $750 of their premiums from their taxes; those over 60 up to $2,000, and those over 70 up to $2,500.
 "The really well-off can self-insure," said Doug Bates of Washington, a lawyer for the American Council of Life Insurance, a trade group. "This really helps those who can't."
But the carrot may not be sweet enough and the stick may not be big enough to persuade people to buy the insurance. Only about five million Americans, or 6 percent of all taxpayers, took the medical deduction in 1994, the latest year for which data are available. And the deduction often does not amount to much. A person with an adjusted gross income of $30,000 who bought a long-term-care policy for $1,400, the typical price for an individual in his mid-60's, would need another $950 of medical expenses to get even a $100 deduction.
Younger workers, already struggling to save for their retirement and their children's education, may also balk at paying premiums, especially for insurance they may never need.
And few advocates for the elderly believe that the Government will really start throwing senior citizens in jail for transferring their assets in order to qualify for Medicaid.
Under the law, people would qualify for reimbursement from the insurance policies if a doctor or other licensed health care provider certified that they could no longer handle two daily activities like bathing, eating, using the toilet, dressing or moving from a bed to a chair. But that and other provisions in the law set more stringent guidelines than those of several states, Mr. Pomeroy, the North Dakota commissioner, said. In Kansas, for example, just a general diagnosis by a doctor that long-term care is necessary is enough to require the insurer to make payments to the policyholder.
Gail Shearer, a policy analyst with Consumers Union, an advocacy group, urged purchasers of the insurance to look closely at the policies, comparing the benefits and costs. "It's caveat emptor," she said.
 Still, the insurance industry has been preparing for an expected surge in sales. About 400,000 individual long-term-care policies were sold last year, and GE Capital Assurance, one of the largest sellers, projects a 10 to 15 percent increase in industrywide sales next year. So last year, it bought Amex Life Assurance, the long-term-care unit of American Express.
Conseco Inc. recently bought several insurers, including the American Travellers Corporation, which agreed last month to market long-term care policies jointly with the American International Group. And in September, Metropolitan Life said that in 1998 it would take over the long-term-care business sponsored by the American Association of Retired Persons.
Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, a Connecticut Democrat who worked on the bipartisan legislation, said that encouraging people to buy long-term-care insurance would help protect elderly people's savings from the high cost of care and reduce the bill to Medicaid for long-term care, which is projected to climb to $67 billion by 2006, from about $30 billion in the fiscal year that ended on Oct. 1. "Both are clearly in the national interest," she said.
David Kingsbury, 73, a retired General Motors employee in Berlin, Conn., recently bought a long-term-care policy for his 70-year-old wife, June, for $1,200 a year. He was rejected for his own policy because of high blood pressure. "I wasn't too anxious to do it," he said, "but I felt that it was kind of a hedge."
Joshua Wiener, an expert on long-term care at the Urban Institute, said he did not think the new law would sharply cut the bill to Medicaid. He said that older people who could afford the insurance were unlikely to end up on Medicaid anyway, and that younger purchasers often let the policies lapse. He said it might take 25 years before private insurance had a measurable effect on Medicaid costs.
He also said the tax deduction -- projected to cost the Treasury $10.84 billion in reduced tax receipts over 10 years -- represented a wrongheaded diversion of scarce public funds to corporations and relatively affluent people. "The tax benefits will largely go to an upper-income group," Mr. Wiener said.
Also coming under criticism is the provision that threatens a $10,000 fine and up to a year in prison for some people who transfer assets to qualify for Medicaid. Mr. Wiener estimates that people who had used up or transferred assets to qualify for the program cost taxpayers about $4.3 billion last year.
Lawyers who call themselves "elder care" specialists say such asset transfers amount to Medicaid estate planning. They say many middle-class people would not be able to afford nursing home care, which can cost $100 to $200 a day, without the help of Medicaid. But after reports that the wealthy were passing estates to their children and then getting taxpayers to help pay for their nursing home care, Congress passed a law in 1993 that extended the waiting period for those who transfer assets. For example, if people transfer assets -- to, say, a child -- they must wait at least 36 months before applying for Medicaid to help pay for their nursing home care.
Some patient advocacy groups, financial planners and lawyers are already lobbying to eliminate or soften the penalties, and a spokeswoman for the Clinton Administration said it would support such changes.
Stephen McConnell, senior vice president for public policy at the Alzheimer's Association in Washington, which wants the provision repealed, said, "This is like using a sledgehammer for something that requires a much finer instrument."
Steve Moses, research director of LTC Inc., an insurance marketing company, said the penalties were "arguably unenforceable," adding, "They are not about to throw Grandma in jail."
And Craig Hartung, an executive with the California Public Employees Retirement System, said the people who might be at risk were "the financial planners, advisers and lawyers" who set up asset transfers for clients.
Enforced or not, the law's penalties will have an effect, said Mark R. Meiners, a University of Maryland expert on the economics of care for the elderly. "People won't want to be the one who finds how it will be enforced," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; NURSING HOMES; AGED; MEDICAID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION ; PERSONAL FINANCES INSURANCE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); LAWYERS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT GLENN POMEROY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



376 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NORTHERN BROOKLYN;
. . . While Men Of Philosophy Market Pillows

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
There was a time when Stephan Shaw couldn't even find work flipping burgers at a fast-food restaurant. Perhaps the recession was to blame. Perhaps it was because he was a philosophy major.
Whatever the case, Mr. Shaw and his brother David, who had also majored in philosophy and was miserable in a temporary office job, turned to Adam Smith for inspiration. One night in 1989, around the time the Berlin wall fell, they baked a pan of clay earrings -- maps of Germany, East and West, to be dangled, either unified (in one ear) or not (in both). The next day, they sold them all on a SoHo street corner at $5 apiece. 
 The brothers moved on to pins, made of a resin and clay composite and with the faces of their favorite philosophers, including Immanuel Kant (they sold one such pin in three years), Soren Kierkegaard (sold maybe two) and Aristotle (not very popular either). But Friedrich Nietzsche proved lucrative: "He's seductive," explained Stephan Shaw, 28. "He's contemporary." Karl Marx was in demand the year the Soviet Union collapsed. And Freud has always been hot.
This year, the Unemployed Philosophers Guild, the company Mr. Shaw now runs from a fifth-floor loft under the Manhattan Bridge overpass, has sold 5,000 Singing Sigmund Freud pins; with the flip of a switch, the father of psychoanalysis plays the old classic "Try to Remember." His brother has moved to California for a film career, leaving him and a cadre of friends -- mostly artists, formerly unemployed -- responsible for designing new products.
Pillows are the most profitable items. The Mona Lisa pillow giggles when pressed. Vincent van Gogh's "Starry Night" glows with little Christmas lights.
"I always thought people would be offended that I was commodifying these people," Mr. Shaw said, shuffling through a drawer of not-so-popular pins, including a young Walt Whitman (no one recognized him) and William the Conqueror. "But they weren't. They want more."
Last year, the guild sold 12,000 pillows, along with thousands of pins, and grossed about $150,000. Its goods are sold by catalogue and in a handful of boutiques in New York.
For the most part, the guild pilfers art and images already in the public domain. "We are stuck in the past," Mr. Shaw said. "Also because living people could sue." SOMINI SENGUPTA

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick Avallone, Thom Powers and Stephan Shaw mind the store. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PHILOSOPHY: Mind-Bending Products" lists some of the items sold by the Unemployed Philosophers Guild.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

COMPANY: UNEMPLOYED PHILOSOPHERS GUILD (CO) PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNEMPLOYED PHILOSOPHERS GUILD (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

SUBJECT: PHILOSOPHY; NOVELTIES AND NOTIONS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PILLOWS; PINS FAST FOOD (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RETAILERS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (63%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAW, STEPHEN; FREUD, SIGMUND (1856-1939); SENGUPTA, SOMINI ADAM SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



377 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
With Elections Over, The Board Races Begin

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

 BODY:
THE 1996 elections are barely over, but another race is already on for many losers, retirees and defectors from the Clinton Administration, and it ends in the corporate board room. A few companies have put out the word that they would like political insiders on their boards -- despite investor questions about such celebrity directors -- executive recruiters say.
And some of the newly unemployed in Washington are actively seeking such positions. 
 Many companies' wish lists include Colin L. Powell, despite his willingness so far to join just one board, that of Gulfstream Aerospace. And Laura D'Andrea Tyson, head of the National Economic Council, seems to be the "most wanted." "People believe she was a positive influence even if they don't agree with her politics," said Roger M. Kenny, head of Boardroom Consultants. "And women with a financial background seem to be in demand."
Age blocks some people who might otherwise be hot, including Bob Dole, 73, and Warren Christopher, 71, the departing Secretary of State. Many corporate bylaws require directors to step down at 70 or 72.
William J. Perry, the departing Defense Secretary who turned 69 last month, might squeak through. Some companies allow directors to stand for election until they reach 70 or 72 and then finish out their term, and Mr. Perry's geopolitical knowledge and experience in military contracting make him attractive.
Among other Cabinet members, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich has floated his availability to some recruiters via intermediaries, with mixed reviews. "He is a brilliant guy, but he's not an attractive board candidate" because he has antagonized corporate America with attacks on those who have shrunk their work forces, said one recruiter who spoke on condition of anonymity. Mr. Kenny, however, said, "Government has mellowed him, and he'd probably be more attactive now than before his Government service."
Recruiters said companies might make room for Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, but would be less likely to do so for Federico F. Pena, the Transportation Secretary, and Hazel R. O'Leary, the Energy Secretary, whose tenures are seen as lackluster.
Who else is a contender?
One recruiter who insisted on anonymity was intrigued by recent entreaties from an agent of former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey.
Ted Jadeck, a partner at Heidrick & Struggles, says Kenneth D. Brody, who stepped down as chairman of the Export-Import Bank in January, has prospects. "He ran a good-sized operation there, and he was on the management committee at Goldman, Sachs before," he said.
Mr. Kenny said Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming "is interesting," and pointed to his expertise on health care and the environment.
Jack Kemp is expected to retake some of the six board seats he vacated to become Mr. Dole's running mate, the Oracle Corporation most prominent among them. Mr. Kemp, some recruiters say, might be able to trade up to bigger boards if he does not begin his own Presidential run.
The demand for politicians is not what it used to be, though. Pendleton E. James, a top recruiter who was once President Reagan's personnel chief, said his clients were "looking for substantial background in a given field, rather than public service."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (60%); GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); CITIES (50%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



378 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2501 words

HEADLINE: In China, a Taste Of Buy-Me TV

BYLINE: By JON HILSENRATH 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
WHEN JINGWEN has a symbol of China's rising affluence tucked away near the dinner table in his two-bedroom apartment just outside Beijing.
It is an Ab-Rotor, a stomach exerciser he bought in September through a new television home shopping program for about $24, more than one-fifth of his monthly salary. 
 Mr. Chen, 33, a Communist Party member who works as a youth league organizer, reported just one glitch on his path to a trimmer stomach: he did not have a telephone to order the contraption. So instead of buying the product on impulse from home, he had to wait a day and make the call from his office.
"My next plan is I want to buy a jogging machine or a stationary bicycle, if the price is fair," said Mr. Chen, dressed in a new yellow warm-up suit and running shoes as he headed home after work to do some stomach crunches.
Hot on the heels of economic change, home shopping has come to China, with infomercials for mainly Western products -- some less than essential -- reaching into millions of living rooms like Mr. Chen's.
The Government is encouraging the incursion, seeing it as another opportunity to learn about Western marketing. The country's state-run television stations are helping foreign infomercial makers set up operations to peddle their imported wares. But through its state-run newspapers, China is also trying to protect local producers, urging consumers to buy domestic goods.
Some Western onlookers think the Government has good reason to be ambivalent. In a recent speech, Colin Powell, the retired general, said the rise of home shopping was a sign of Communism's fragility, "because there is no way Communism can compete with a salad shooter for $9.95."
Clearly, Chinese consumers highly prize Western goods.
"In the old days, they wore Mao outfits; today, they shop at Benetton," said Louis Tong, the managing director of SRG China, a division of A. C. Nielsen that takes surveys of Chinese consumers and monitors their television habits. "The whole economic scene has changed."
It is not yet clear, however, whether China is ready for this type of marketing. Shopping programs here face many hurdles that QVC or the Home Shopping Network never faced in the United States -- for example, the scarcity of two crucial elements of the home shopping formula: telephones and credit cards. On top of that, much of the telephone system is primitive, making it hard to get orders by phone. And even after the orders come in, the distribution system often consists of making deliveries by scooter in congested city traffic.
There are also consumer complaints that prices, pushed up by import tariffs, are too high. A Miracle Mop sold via infomercial will cost a Chinese consumer close to $40, while a mop made in China can be had here for less than a dollar.
"This is all at an extremely early stage of development," said Christopher K. B. Brotchie, the executive chairman of the Barings Communications Equity (Asia-Pacific) fund, "We're in a wait-and-see mode." His $60 million private investment fund invests in privately held Asian companies that are seen as having a chance to go public.
Still, the allure of the Chinese market -- 1.2 billion consumers, with incomes growing at double-digit rates -- makes investors and home shopping operators eager to connect with the likes of Mr. Chen.
"There are 809 million television homes in the world; 250 million of them are in China," said Mark Hershhorn, chief executive of the National Media Corporation, which plans to enter the Chinese infomercial market by the end of the year. "For us, it is a key market."
Elsewhere in the world, home shopping is booming, gobbling up television time. NIMA International, an infomercial marketing association in Washington, estimates that of $8.2 billion in global home shopping sales in 1995, $3.1 billion came from outside the United States In this respect, China is among the latecomers to the home shopping party.
Interwood Marketing of Canada, for instance, is now peddling its DiDi Seven stain removers in 107 countries worldwide -- including, most recently, Russia, India and China. Full-time home shopping channels like QVC, meanwhile, are popping up abroad as well. In just the last year, new channels started operating in Australia and in Hong Kong, where they are even trying to sell real estate.
In China, the appeal is clear -- especially in the cities, where incomes have risen at nearly a 20 percent annual rate for a decade and are fast approaching $1,000. By Western standards, of course, the incomes are still tiny. But with housing and health care costs low and with the consumer market still largely undeveloped, many Chinese workers save voraciously -- by most estimates, close to 40 percent of their incomes -- and some have enough stashed away to splurge on a bit of Western luxury or frivolity.
To be sure, home shopping in China is still mostly an urban phenomenon, touching only a slice of the potential market. Still, that slice could be big business: more than 300 million people live in China's cities.
THE effort is now dominated by infomercial operators, usually working with Chinese partners or others who understand the system; the programming generally consists of 10-to 20-minute segments that are broadcast between regular shows. America's 24-hour home shopping networks -- including QVC and the Home Shopping Network -- say they are staying out of China until the market develops. But TVSN, an Australian venture that sells everything from Vidal Sasson shampoo to Cobra golf clubs, is beaming 24-hour home shopping programming into some five-star hotels and expatriate compounds in big Chinese cities, and it hopes to expand.
Among the first infomercial entries, in December 1995, was China Shop-A-Vision, a Shanghai concern whose sole investor is Transpac Capital Ltd., a $500 million fund management company based in Singapore. The operator broadcasts 10-minute infomercials, most of them produced by Interwood Marketing.
The managing director of China Shop-A-Vision, Margaret Au-Yeung, a Hong Kong native who attended the School of Visual Arts in New York, says she plans to expand the programming into 10 more cities in coming months, and expects the venture to have sales of $10 million in its first year. Already, the program has more than 20,000 "TV Shopping Club" members, who are promised free delivery on their orders and services like free cooking lessons when they buy a Swiss cooker, Ms. Au-Yeung says.
Because they are not yet sure what Chinese consumers will want to buy, the handful of infomercial operators are trying to sell everything from exercise equipment and kitchen appliances to spray-on hair and rub-on ointments purported to reduce fat. One program has even offered a few waterbeds; they sold out.
The infomercials are often recycled Western versions, featuring enthralled American audiences, marveling at the likes of wonder mops, and ebullient hosts, dubbed in Chinese, enthusiastically creating messes on floors and magically wiping them away.
OF some staples of Western households are scarce in China, television sets are not -- especially in the cities. In Beijing, for example, 97 percent of households have TV's, though only 49 percent have telephones and fewer than 6 percent have home computers, according to SRG, the survey company.
And the reservoir of advertising time is enormous. The national programmer, China Central Television, offers only eight channels, but the country is home to more than 1,000 registered cable operators, many of which run their own channels locally. There are also hundreds of city and provincial channels that offer local advertising time. All this gives infomercial ventures plenty of opportunities to promote their goods.
For Chinese consumers, the infomercials provide a taste of Western products and the chance to shop without having to battle the traffic that chokes the roads of many coastal cities.
"There is incredible promise for home shopping," said Susan Schoenfeld, president of AIM Asia, a consulting firm based in Hong Kong. "There is a lot of pent-up demand in these markets, and they are interested in the kinds of products that are being offered."
Consider the buying potential of Gwan Zhi Bin, who quit a dead-end factory job four years ago and set up the Bin Bin Hair House, a small hair salon, on a busy street in downtown Beijing.
Mr. Gwan, 37, a thin man with thick, dark hair, says he now pulls in more than $7,500 a year -- a princely sum here -- and he weaves through Beijing traffic in his small Chinese-made van, with a beeper and cellular phone at his side. He bought bottles of hair highlighter for his business through an infomercial operator, convinced that Western sprays were better than domestic ones.
"Dyeing hair is popular now," Mr. Gwan said, adding that the hair sprays gave him an advantage over a competitor down the street.
One recent morning, he said, he colored the hair of three brides. "It made them look like a flower," Mr. Gwan said.
But if Mr. Chen's stomach exerciser and Mr. Gwan's hair spray are signs of China's rising affluence, the tale of the shopping program that sold them the products is a reminder that the transition has been rough.
Both men ordered from the International Shopping Network, the creation of John Wang, who has been struggling for nearly three years to build China's first nationwide home shopping network.
The concern's main China office sits on the edge of Beijing, not far from Mr. Chen's home. It overlooks a road where a stream of trucks and bicycles negotiate blackened, rain-filled potholes, as smokestacks puff in the background.
 MR. WANG was only 3 years old when his father, a fighter pilot with the Kuomintang army, was driven by the Communists to Taiwan with the rest of China's nationalist forces in 1949. The family moved to the United States in 1958, and Mr. Wang now logs frequent-flier miles between Beijing and his home in Solana Beach, Calif.
Today he is working closely with the state-run enterprises that grew up after his family left. Mr. Wang has agreements with China Central Television and with China International Television, the national cable programmer, to broadcast his 15-minute shopping programs throughout the country.
Because China Central is the only national television broadcaster, Mr. Wang's agreement gives him the broadest potential reach of any home shopping operator in China.
When Mr. Wang started the programs in early July, he was still working out how he was going to take orders from customers throughout the country -- the concept of toll-free telephone numbers was still new.
He was also trying to arrange to take payments in a country where fewer than 10 percent of the population have credit cards, even in a big city like Beijing. Like most other operators, he was taking cash on delivery, but he had a hard time getting the fragmented and disorganized postal service to collect the money outside Beijing.
For Mr. Wang, who had been importing automobile accessories and other goods from China since 1978 but had never built and run a business here, it was a herculean effort.
"We have taken on a very, very difficult task," Mr. Wang said from his warehouse in September. "There is still a lot of work ahead of us."
By that time, customers like Mr. Gwan were complaining that they were finding it hard to have the products delivered. And Mr. Wang was having trouble managing inventories when he didn't know which products would appeal to consumers. Surprisingly, there were strong sales for expensive products like waterbeds and a computer mouse shaped like a pen. (Consumers found they could use the mouse to write Chinese characters.) But other products that he expected to be hits, like a cheap headset, did poorly.
In late September, he gave control of the day-to-day operations to Lawrence Lien, a former project manager for the Bechtel Corporation in China and elsewhere. Mr. Lien had spent the last eight years as an independent consultant setting up joint ventures, largely in China.
By mid-October, the International Shopping Network had generated only $80,000 in sales and was running on just a few million dollars of invested capital. The network pulled its programs off the air in mid-October while it put together a plan to regroup.
"We are pressed for capital for both inventories and operations," Mr. Lien said from the network's California office. He said he still hoped to generate $60 million in sales by next August, after the programs went back on the air. Just a few weeks earlier, though, Mr. Wang was talking about more than $100 million in sales. Mr. Lien recently acknowledged that the venture needed capital and that "we'll struggle for a couple of weeks."
THE International Shopping Network is not alone in encountering obstacles. Shanghai Television Station, which runs two channels in the city, helped China Shop-A-Vision set up a telephone system, but Ms. Au-Yeung has had to come up with a variety of ways to distribute her Interwood products. Many of her customers must now pick up their products at department stores, wiping out some of the convenience of home shopping. She also has a crew of delivery men in Shanghai carrying products on scooters -- a less-than-perfect solution.
"The traffic in Shanghai is hopeless," she said.
Nelson Tan, a managing director of TV Media, an infomercial operator based in Singapore, said his biggest challenge in China was convincing consumers that it was safe to accept goods by delivery. TV Media sells its products in the southern province of Guangzhou and in Qingdao, a port city in eastern China.
"They are not used to this kind of idea," Mr. Tan said. "They'd rather come in and touch the product, see the product, before they do the purchase."
 Consumers have hurdles of their own, like finding phones through which to place orders. Some problems are a little more complex, like learning that Western production may not always be synonymous with quality.
CONSIDER what happened to Wang Rhenzang, a retired officer from the People's Liberation Army who has watched the dark hair on the crown of his head disappear steadily for 15 years. His son told him about spray-on hair after seeing it promoted on a television infomercial. Intrigued, Mr. Wang called the advertised number and ordered a can, shelling out $12, one-tenth of his monthly income.
 The purchase was a disaster. The directions were all in English, so he didn't know how to apply it. And when he tried using what he saw on the infomercial as a guide, the black ooze had no salutary effect on his hair. It did, however, get all over his clothes and rub off on his hands when he touched his head.
Asked whether he planned to return the product, Mr. Wang, confused and disappointed by his foray into modern consumer culture, said, "Can I return it?"
Call it growing pains -- for Wang Rhenzang, and for the new hordes trying to reach into his living room.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Playing in the Provinces Infomercials for products like these, sold in China on the International Shopping Network, may be Western versions dubbed in Chinese or may be made specifically for the new market: An exerciser, for washboard abs; "Scalpi," for head massages; A food slicer, for perfect veggies; Spray-on hair, to hide bald spots. (pg. 1); Margaret Au-Yeung, whose China Shop-A-Vision was one of the first infomercial ventures in the country, shows some of its wares. (Agence France-Presse); The lack of telephones and credit cards in China has hampered John Wang's efforts to build a nationwide home shopping network. (Jon Hilsenrath for The New York Times) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MEDIA CORP A C NIELSEN SOUTH AFRICA (52%); A C NIELSEN FRANCE (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MEDIA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TELEVISION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (89%); INFOMERCIALS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MARKETING SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); 

PERSON: HILSENRATH, JON E; HERSHHORN, MARK

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



379 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE RACK;
Parenthood: The Eighth Financial Wonder of the World

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
KIDS, cars and gifts get heavy play in the December crop of personal-finance magazines.
Smart Money's special issue on children -- "Your Biggest Investment" -- is an exhaustive financial guide for parents. It covers about every conceivable aspect of the endeavor, from buying baby formula to paying for college to estate planning. 
 The magazine says the cost of rearing a child and getting him or her through college is now in the neighborhood of $200,000, depending on whose figures are used. To drive the point home, Smart Money provides a list of typical child-rearing expenses and compares them with what you might have bought for yourself with the money had you decided to forgo parenthood. Instead of four years of Harvard tuition and expenses, you could have had a 1997 Mercedes E420, a Denon Home Theater and a Tiffany bezel-set diamond bracelet. A live-in nanny equals a gold Rolex watch, and those braces could be a week at a fancy resort. Clip the chart. It might be good ammunition against a plea for the latest $500 designer bicycle seat.
Another article in the special issue, "The New Math: Home vs. School," by Nellie S. Huang, is a good guide to the relationship between real estate values and the quality of school districts. It also offers some sound advice on judging schools, from class sizes to test scores.
On a more somber note, Money magazine investigates the dangers that children can face from common vaccines. The magazine contends that safer vaccines exist, but they are more expensive and are not promoted strongly enough by drug companies, doctors and Federal regulators.
According to Money -- which uses data from the Institute of Medicine and the National Vaccine Information Center -- DPT shots to prevent diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough) and tetanus cause brain damage at the rate of 1 case for every 62,000 immunized children and kill at least 2 to 4 people a year. And the number of deaths could be in the hundreds, including a great number misclassified as victims of sudden infant death syndrome. Money says the problem could be virtually eliminated by using a so-called acellular vaccine that has been used in Japan since 1981; it costs $19.43 a dose, $9 more than the vaccine most widely used in the United States.
 
THE ONCE AND FUTURE CAR Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine, Smart Money and Individual Investor all have articles on cars. Kiplinger's five-article buyer's guide takes readers through all aspects of getting a car -- from sticker shock to insurance. It also rates cars in categories like "best in class" and "most fuel efficient."
Individual Investor, which seldom wanders from its more narrow focus on investing, looks at cars through that prism. The emphasis is on the future of the auto industry and companies in which investors might consider putting their money. In addition to discussing the auto giants, the magazine provides financial highlights on smaller companies that are designing, building and supplying parts for today's automobiles and those of the not-so-distant future.
Smart Money, meanwhile, stresses good leasing deals, including some for sport utility vehicles.
 
SEASONAL ADVICE Everyone, it seems, is on the holiday gift-recommendation bandwagon. Kiplinger's stresses presents with a health-and-fitness angle. Individual Investor goes for investment aids, like "Richer Than the Pharaoh," a CD-ROM game that teaches financial concepts through role-playing. Worth, Money and Smart Money go for the usual upscale gift assortment, including a $1,000 cellular phone, a $6,500 watch and -- for a mere $10,250 -- a flight in a MIG-29 with a Russian test pilot. (Subsonic airfare to and from Moscow is extra.)
 
A PRINCIPAL WARNING On Jan. 15, the Government will begin selling those inflation-indexed bonds, whose principal value will be adjusted according to changes in the Consumer Price Index. Worth (in its combined December-January issue) and Kiplinger's remind potential buyers that any gain in principal will be taxed the year it is credited, even though the bond's owner may not see the cash for years. If inflation picks up, an investor in a high tax bracket could wind up paying more in taxes on the principal than is earned in interest in a given year.
A QUIET MUTUAL FUND Smart Money peeks into the Retirement System Emerging Growth fund, a small-company fund managed by Putnam Investments. It seems the fund, despite a five-year average return of 28.3 percent, has gone out of its way to discourage publicity and investors. According to Smart Money, a spokeswoman even denied that the fund was sold in the retail market when the prospectus says otherwise and lists a toll-free number for individuals with an initial investment of as little as $2,500. The reason for the secrecy remains a mystery.
 
BITS AND PIECES Money has a special section on using economic news to perk up your portfolio. Worth's Jim Rogers, author of "Investment Biker," offers guidance in international investing. And Smart Money is bullish on the cable industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SMART MONEY (MAGAZINE)

ORGANIZATION: SMART MONEY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PERSONAL FINANCES; MAGAZINES PARENTING (91%); VACCINES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); WHOOPING COUGH (86%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME (77%); INFANT MORTALITY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ESTATE PLANNING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INFANT FORMULA (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); FINE JEWELRY (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); DRUG SAFETY (64%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED SMART MONEY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



380 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

DOWNSIZING
The Flight-School Approach
This, essentially, was Albert Dunlap's message to his troops: Look at the person next to you; one of you is history. No, this wasn't flight school, and even though Mr. Dunlap is a former paratrooper, he now runs Sunbeam -- what's left of it, anyway. Last week he said that half the company's 12,000 employees would be let go. That pales next to the 74,000 jobs cut by General Motors in 1991, but in percentage terms it was the bloodiest bath ever. True, some nonbelievers might suggest that companies are built primarily of people -- that employees, in Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich's words, should not be treated like "disposable pieces of equipment." But to "Chain Saw Al," as Mr. Dunlap is known, "this was a dismally sick company, and drastic measures were absolutely necessary." Investors, often partial to sharp instruments, have doubled Sunbeam's stock price in the four months since Mr. Dunlap arrived, toting that chain saw.
 
THE BUDGET
A Balancing Act
Why don't politicians just balance the budget, already, if they want that so badly? Why start the long, drawn-out process needed for a constitutional amendment? It's simple. These days, many people say being for a balanced budget is like being against sin; a vote for the amendment cleanses the conscience. And it's a quickie, bargain cleansing, too, for you don't have to do the ugly work of cutting spending; you just cast a neat little vote. President Clinton, ever the fluttering weathervane, seems a bit befuddled by all this. Last week he seemed to saying that, well, the amendment is coming -- might as well hop aboard. But the next day, possibly fearing Democratic defections when the vote comes up, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin jumped in and said the Administration would "actively oppose" the amendment. He did not disclose current White House policy on sin.
 
AIRLINES
Ooh, It Sounds So Global
USAir. US Airways. Let's see. Yes, they definitely both sound like airlines. Yes, they both sound like American airlines -- domestic airlines, that is, not American Airlines. But does US Airways sound more international? Does that bulkier word summon images of, say, the old worldly-wise Pan Am? That is clearly what USAir is hoping, for last week, with a flourish, it announced its new strategy, including a new logo and that name change. (One can't help wondering how much some high-end consultant was paid to type in those four new letters.) And the image-tinkering didn't stop there, for in an undisguised appeal to business travelers (you know, the ones who pay those mind-boggling full fares), it renamed its frequent-flier program Dividend Miles and its in-flight magazine Attache. So much for image, though. USAir had trouble in the first place because it had the industry's highest costs. That, it acknowledges, must still be faced.
 
AUTOMOBILES
Used Cars, Domesticated
Buying a used car is a lot like a trip to a casino. You look in the dealer's eyes to try to see if you are being taken, you put down a sizable bet, and if you can put together the right mix of diligence and luck, you walk away with a prize -- a car that gets you from here to there a reasonable number of times. But they're trying to take the sport out of this poker game. At the used-car superstores that are cropping up, you can almost imagine thousands of cars on vast warehouse-style shelves, neatly arranged by color and model. And auto makers are stripping the game of its danger: General Motors is signing up dealers to offer warranties on used cars, and Chrysler is testing the same idea. And last week Ford joined the parade, setting up a program for "quality certified" used cars. If it gets too easy and risk-free to buy used cars, though, who would ever pay the prices for new ones? Have the car makers thought of that?
 
RENTAL CARS
Pristine No More
You know the feeling you usually get in a rental car: the odometer says something absurd like 213, the shine is showroom-pristine, and that new-car aroma lingers. Car renters get so spoiled that even those who drive rusted heaps at home are outraged at the slightest nick or smudge. Well, it's over. Car makers are getting stingier with their new models, so rental companies are keeping cars around longer -- the average, which was once four to six months, has risen to (horrors) as much as 15 months.
 
SHOES
Air McVeigh? Not Yet
Be honest, now. If you saw that a certain running shoe had been endorsed by one Joseph McVeigh, would you sprint to the mall to buy it? And why not, exactly? Mr. McVeigh, after all, has to be included among the nation's elite in his sport -- though only 24th in the New York City Marathon two weeks ago, he was the top American finisher. In other sports, such elite ranking would mean big money, endorsements, celebrity bios, the works; Mr. McVeigh jogs in anonymity. But New Balance has had it with American runners faring poorly against Kenyans, Mexicans and Italians, and last week it offered a little push: $1 million to the American man or woman who can break the national marathon record next year. It didn't say whether the runner had to wear New Balance shoes, but it would be a nice touch.
 
FAMILY VALUES
Move Over, Tipper Gore
Anyone who doubts that business runs things can just look at the wads of corporate cash dumped into the election -- a system that President Clinton, of course, is vowing to change. But business has an even tighter grip on our hearts and minds than you imagined. If memory serves, the populace never elected Wal-Mart and its megastore cousins to be guardians of the nation's morals, but they are stepping firmly into the role anyway. If, say, a pop-song lyric displeases Wal-Mart, the CD will never darken its shelves. If a movie offends Blockbuster's sensibilities, the video is banned. Are these mere marketing footnotes? Hardly. Megastores have such a powerful hold on the market that, often, if they don't sell an item, it may be nearly impossible to buy it. This forces music producers to mask offensive words or clean up album covers for the Wal-Mart version. "The music industry is now hostage" to megastores, one record executive said.
 
TELEPHONES
Let the Wireless Wars Begin
You think wireless phones are everywhere? You haven't seen anything yet. A mere 40 million Americans now have pocket phones (including, naturally, that resonant soul next to you on the train). But P.C.S. is here (for the abbreviation-impaired, that's "personal communications services"), with clearer sound than cellular and the ability to waft all sorts of data through the air. A company called Omnipoint introduced it in the New York area last week, with Sprint PCS and Nextwave to follow, so the wireless wars are officially on. Brace yourself for the ads, and get ready for some bargains. By 2004, it's estimated, the nation will have 125 million wireless subscribers. And not a peaceful train seat in sight.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Flight-School Approach" shows share price of Sunbeam, Jul to Nov 1996. (Source: Datastream); "Ooh, It Sounds So Global" shows weekly closing prices of USAir shares, Aug to Nov 996. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS BUDGETS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



381 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: The Villain Is Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Capital Gains Change Could Be a Bonanza for Homeowners" (Spending It, Sept. 22) discussed current tax laws regarding home sales and possible reform. But one important part of the discussion should be inflation, the main culprit in the distortions and unpredictabililty of current law. The effects of possible inflation should provide the main impetus for any proposed reform. 
 If you had bought a home in 1983 for $100,000, for example, and sold it for $144,000 in 1993, you would have merely kept up with the inflation rate over those years. Yet, if you could not use any of the available tax breaks, you had to pay $12,300 in capital-gains taxes on this nonexistent profit. If the home's sale price was $120,000, not only would you fail to get a tax deduction for the inflation erosion, but you would also be penalized with a tax bill of $5,600!
To add distortion to injury, losses are still not tax-deductible. A less distortionary and more predictable way of taxing very long-term gains, like those from home sales, is to index the tax base to inflation. However, this may add a layer of complexity to a law that already requires much record-keeping.
Otherwise, the elimination of the tax, which raises only $500 million annually, can be considered.
 
S. ABRAHAM RAVID
Newark, Sept. 22
 
The writer is associate professor of finance in the Graduate School of Management at Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; TAXATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: RAVID, S ABRAHAM

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



382 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Deregulation in Japan;
Too Many Rules, But Not for All

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
IF Japan's leaders are to be believed, this nation is about to embark on the deregulatory path followed by the United States in the last two decades -- loosening restrictions on its airlines, telephones, banks and brokerages and other industries. In the recent Japanese election, candidates fell over one another telling voters that Japan's economic growth, entrepreneurial spirit and public well-being are being suffocated by too much regulation and an overbearing bureaucracy.
But if Japan has so many rules, why is it essentially legal for junior high school girls in Tokyo to engage in prostitution to earn money to buy Louis Vuitton bags? Why are new drugs tested on patients without telling them? Why are beer and other alcoholic beverages sold in vending machines on the street, where children can easily buy them? 
 And if the Government plans everything, why are Japanese cities such haphazard jumbles of narrow roads and ugly buildings, as if the concepts of zoning and urban planning did not exist?
 
 
 
Only in Japan
 The truth is that while Japan has a mammoth list of rules that are not found in the supposedly deregulated United States, there are also many instances in which many Americans might be shocked by the absence of regulation in Japan. For instance:
*Child seats for cars, required in all 50 states, are not required here, and infants can often be seen standing up in the front passenger seat of a moving vehicle.
*It is legal in Tokyo to have sex with a girl as young as 13, and prostitution cannot be punished unless it is arranged by a pimp.
*Doctors can sell drugs as well as prescribe them, something they are prohibited from doing in the United States, Britain and other countries. Because physicians profit from their prescriptions, the Japanese ingest more medicine per capita, much of it of limited effectiveness, than any other people on earth.
*Japan is the only developed country that does not have a national law requiring formal statements of the environmental impact of developments and other large-scale projects, according to Sachihiko Harashina, a professor of environmental planning at the Tokyo Institute of Technology.
*Companies are not required to disclose nearly as much information about their financial condition as they are in the United States. That makes it possible for companies to conceal bad debts and makes it difficult for investors to judge where to put their money.
*Regulations against insider trading and other market manipulations are also not very strong. Yasuo Hamanaka, a copper dealer who racked up $2.6 billion in losses, did not violate any commodities trading regulations in Japan, the authorities say. He was arrested instead for forging documents.
Why are there so many regulations in some areas and so few in others? It depends on the type of rule in question. In America, much regulation is ostensibly aimed at helping consumers or protecting public welfare, even at the expense of business. But in Japan regulation has mainly been geared toward helping businesses. The rules work to limit competition, keep foreigners out of the market and keep prices high. Indeed, the United States Government, hoping to make it easier for American firms to break into the Japanese market, has been among the most ardent proponents of deregulation in Japan.
 
 
 
Buyers Beware
 Many of the regulations that are arguably lacking, on the other hand, are ones to protect consumers, who have always gotten the short end of the stick in Japan's producer-oriented economic system.
For instance, Japan does not accept results of clinical drug testing unless it was done on Japanese people, a rule that discourages the importation of pharmaceuticals and arguably denies citizens the benefits of some treatments.
On the other hand, Japan's domestic drug approval process has been criticized for being too lax, allowing ineffective or dangerous drugs onto the market.
There are some similarities. As in the United States, the pressure for deregulation in Japan is coming mainly from business and is aimed at improving the nation's competitiveness. In a global economy, Japan's major electronics and automobile companies, for instance, find themselves handicapped by the high costs of doing business at home and want to see fuel, phone and transportation charges lowered by more competition. A financial sector deregulation proposed last week by Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto is being sold as a way to make Tokyo competitive with New York and London as a financial center, not primarily as a way to offer individual investors more services and, perhaps, a better return on their money. Consumers also generally favor deregulation if it would lower prices.
But many consumer groups in Japan have also been pushing for stronger regulations -- on pollutants, alcohol vending machines and alcohol television advertising, smoking in public places, labeling of food and medicine and so on.
On the other hand, consumer groups remain very weak -- one result of the society's consensus to concentrate on growth, and of the Japanese citizen's tendency to leave decisions to people in authority. In other words, this is not a land where an individual citizen's first instinct is to organize a pressure group when there is a problem.
Another difference is that in Japan, power is centralized, far more so than in America. One reason land use control in Japan is so weak is that localities have little control over their own affairs, said Hidehiko Tanimura, a professor of urban planning at Tsukuba University.
Yet another distinction must be drawn between regulation and oversight. Japan might have many regulations, but some of its enforcement agencies are weak.
The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan together have about 670 bank inspectors. In the United States, there are about 8,000 at the Federal and state levels. It is little wonder that the supposedly omnipotent Finance Ministry failed to prevent the recent string of failures of financial institutions.
 
 
 
More Bureaucrats
 There is no doubt that Japan has a great many regulations (there are 10,760 instances where a government permit is needed, for example), and that they do stifle economic activity. But reforming Japan will require more than burning the rule books and firing bureaucrats.
In addition to calls for eliminating many regulations, there are also some for writing new rules and for shifting some rule-making from the central government to local government. And if eliminating excessive rules does allow businesses to expand rapidly, Japan may well find that it actually needs more, not fewer, inspectors to watch over the expansion, enforcing what rules there are and inspecting the books to insure that the expansion is healthy. That is especially true if the financial industry is deregulated.
"You have to have the oversight system in place before you start letting the hordes loose in new areas of business," said J. Brian Waterhouse, a finance industry analyst at James Capel.
While Japan's bureaucrats might be powerful, they are not that numerous. The number of national and local public employees, excluding the military, is only 3.8 percent of the population. That compares to 6.9 percent in the United States, 7.3 percent in Britain and 11.2 percent in France, according to the Japanese Government's personnel agency.
There are even some places where supposedly bureaucratic Japan can teach supposedly deregulated America a thing or two. "My income tax return for the United States is the length of a small novel," said James C. Abegglen, a veteran business consultant in Tokyo. "The one my Japanese accountant prepares for me is four pages. Who's got the regulation?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (70%); LVMH (BIT) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (70%); TOKYO INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; LAW AND LEGISLATION DEREGULATION (93%); ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); AIRLINES (77%); POLITICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TRENDS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PROSTITUTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); LUGGAGE MFG (74%); BEER & ALE (74%); ZONING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); CHILD CAR SEATS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); INSIDER TRADING (60%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



383 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Into the Fray Again;
Canada Likes the Peacekeeper's Mantle

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
AT a busy intersection in Ottawa, there is a sculpture of a radio operator, a watchman and an armed sentry standing atop walls that are split to symbolize irreconcilable differences. When the bronze and stone were placed above the traffic in 1992, Canada became the first nation to erect a monument to peacekeeping.
Canada has a deep and long-standing commitment to peacekeeping around the world. But the traditional peacekeeping that the monument depicts bears little resemblance to the multinational force that Canada's Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril is to lead into the chaos of central Africa after the United Nations Security Council unanimously approved the mission Friday. 
 There will be no line separating the sides, no orderly division that just needs to be observed and maintained. Instead, up to 12,000 troops from eight nations, including the United States, will wade into a no-man's land of tribal rivalries to bring food and supplies to 1 million refugees.
The United States tends to make a bigger splash when it gets involved overseas, but no country has more experience than Canada when it comes to peacekeeping. Increasingly, though, there is little peace to keep. Rather, Canadians now talk of humanitarian intervention, rapid response and a complicated process of "peacebuilding," which brings far greater risk of unwanted military engagements and far less chance of achieving lasting settlements.
 
 
 
Peace of Mind
 The decision by Prime Minister Jean Chretien that Canada should step to the front of the line in Africa seems to be a genuinely humanitarian action by a usually cautious leader horrified by what was happening in eastern Zaire, and by a nation that has long found peace of mind at home by keeping peace abroad. He has been criticized for focusing too much on Quebec sovereignty and economic issues during his first three years in office and shirking the role of international mediator, which Canada had played since the days after World War II, when its military took on disproportionate importance because it was comparatively intact.
In 1956, Foreign Minister (later Prime Minister) Lester B. Pearson convinced the United Nations to place an international force, led by Canada, between the Egyptians and the British, French and Israelis during the Suez Canal crisis.
Since then, Canada has participated in virtually every United Nations peacekeeping mission. More than 50,000 Canadians have served as peacekeepers -- the most from any nation. About 1,000 Canadian troops are stationed in Bosnia; 750 are in Haiti. The dividing line in the Ottawa monument is meant to evoke the Green Line that splits Cyprus, where Canadians landed more than 30 years ago.
 
 
 
'Moral Authority'
 The Nobel Peace Prize awarded to Mr. Pearson for his part in the Suez crisis is on permanent display in the lobby of the Lester B. Pearson Building in Ottawa, seat of Canada's Foreign Affairs ministry. The peacekeeper's role he chartered influenced a generation of Canadian politicians, including Mr. Chretien, and is a touchstone of how Canada sees itself in a modern world.
"Canada may not be a superpower but we are a nation that speaks on the international scene with great moral authority," said Mr. Chretien when he announced Canada's decision to take the lead role in Zaire. "Now is the time to use that moral authority."
Canada travels light, carrying very little historical baggage when it arrives in a place like Zaire. It has no history of being a colonial power, nor an aggressor state.
French is the common language of the former French and Belgian colonies. In the days when Canada, under Pierre Trudeau, spent more freely on development aid, Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi were showered with attention. Canadians helped build universities, manage forests and construct irrigation systems. But Canada came to realize the huge burden of playing international broker. As taxes and the national deficit soared, international activities were trimmed.
Canadians were also shocked and disappointed by previous peacekeeping missions in Africa. A civilian inquiry is still underway into the torture and killing of a Somali teen-ager at the hands of Canadian paratroopers in 1993. And a small, Canadian-led mission that tried to keep order in Rwanda in 1994 fled after several of its members were killed.
Days before he left for Africa as special United Nations envoy, Raymond Chretien, Canada's Ambassador to Washington, and former ambassador to several central African nations, said he would carry no commitment from Canada except to provide air transport for him and his team. Soon after arriving, though, he briefed the Prime Minister, his uncle, describing a far more horrific scene had been imagined.
 
 
 
Organizing Relief
 Last weekend, when the Prime Minister planned to pass a frigid day reading a French Canadian novel, the constant television images of hungry refugees made him stop. He began a round of telephone calls to enlist world leaders and, to the relief of Washington officials concerned that this looked too much like a rerun of the disaster in Somalia, he offered to take the lead.
On Friday, up to 400,000 refugees began to return to Rwanda. Canada claimed partial credit.
"The initiative that was taken this week, beginning last weekend with the Prime Minister, is already I think beginning to pay its own dividends in terms of having a breakthrough," Foreign Minister Lloyd Axworthy said.
"This is far removed from classical peacekeeping but it's an advance," said Alex Morrison, president of the Pearson Peacekeeping Center, which was established with government help at an old military base in Nova Scotia and has trained more than 700 people from 66 countries. "We cannot allow national governments or societies in anarchy to be able to say 'You can't come in because to do so would violate our sovereignty.' "
A successful mission would bring great rewards for Mr. Chretien, who will probably call an election next year. The demoralized Canadian Army would be energized, and the memory of Somalia would be tempered. And for once, Canada would be out in front of the United States instead of following behind.
The $75 million mission even has the support of separatist Quebec, and if it can be pulled off without the peacekeepers getting bloodied, it is likely to be used as another argument for keeping Canada whole. A Canada that could not keep from breaking apart would lose the moral authority required to keep other nations together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This monument in Ottawa was said to be the first by a nation to its peacekeepers. (John Hryniuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); RWANDA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); HAITI (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; RWANDA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); RWANDA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); HAITI (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); REFUGEES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; PEARSON, LESTER B; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



384 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Welfare And the Working Poor

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
PROFITS may be surging on Wall Street, giving a nudge to the once-torpid economy of New York State, but the recovery hasn't yet turned into bountiful opportunities for would-be burger-flippers or cashiers. So when Gov. George E. Pataki of New York unveiled his plan last week for scaling back welfare to comply with a new Federal law, he also drew attention to a new national conflict: When welfare recipients start looking for jobs to replace their shrinking welfare benefits, they will be competing with the working poor, who are barely surviving on what they make now.
 
 
 
Fighting for Crumbs
 
 This conflict threatens not only New York, but other slow-growth states, too. And the conflict isn't just over jobs either.
Officials in New York and other states are only beginning to grapple with how they will make room in their subsidized child-care programs for children of today's welfare recipients without displacing working families who already take advantage of the programs. Nearly two in three children among the 1.5 million in Federally subsidized child care programs nationwide are from working poor families.
Wisconsin, seeking to provide enough slots for welfare recipients who are being required to work, has already rewritten its child-care rules to eliminate subsidies for many working poor families. New Jersey, too, has lowered the income eligibility for subsidized child care, though less so.
Mr. Pataki vowed last week to reinvest savings from his proposal in day care and job training to help people off welfare. But there are already waiting lists for child care. And many of the state-subsidized job-training programs for welfare recipients have been criticized as ineffective.
This raises a question that typically generates only vague reassurances: Will the price of reducing the welfare rolls be an increase in the number of poor people?
Mr. Pataki argues that under his policies, the economy will grow enough to create jobs for people on welfare after they lose benefits. Advocates for the poor and union leaders demur. They point out that in New York City, which has about 70 percent of the state's welfare recipients, the unemployment rate hit 8.6 percent in August, more than three points higher than that of the whole nation. And they say that the new jobs that are cropping up require experience that most recipients do not have.
Mr. Pataki's plan, which would end cash grants for most childless adults and would begin reducing benefits for families after 18 months, eliminating them entirely after five years on the rolls, faces tough sledding in the Democratic-controlled Assembly. But whatever plan emerges could cause upheaval in the work force.
With more people seeking employment, wages might drop for low-skill jobs. Local governments might continue to cut their payrolls and replace municipal employees with current or former welfare recipients.
 
 
 
The Sub-Minimum Wage
 "The reality is that this is going to create intense competition for jobs that don't exist, especially at the low-wage level," said William F. Henning Jr., a vice president at Local 1180 of the Communications Workers of America, which represents 7,000 workers in city government. "There simply aren't the jobs for them now. What this is is an impetus toward a sub-minimum wage."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was still evaluating the Governor's plan, but has predicted that the new Federal rules will push people off welfare without giving the city enough money for child care and job training to help them get jobs. Mr. Pataki says such criticism is unfounded..
"People who don't want to see changes made in the welfare system will always cast doubt on any new initiative and any new idea, because they are supporters of the status quo," said Zenia Mucha, the Governor's spokeswoman.
But both supporters and detractors of the welfare overhaul say it is difficult to predict what will happen two or three years from now. Doomsday predictions may not come to pass because welfare recipients may alter their behavior once they realize that their benefits are finite. They may go on and off welfare, getting short-term or part-time jobs -- seeking to prolong their eligibility for benefits under the five-year limit. That way, the number of people who have lost their benefits will be staggered with those who have not, and the work force will not be flooded with new people all at once.
There may also be loopholes and exemptions in the Federal rules that allow some flexibility. And it's possible that if politicians see sharp increases in unemployment and homelessness, they will start bending even more, regardless of how fed up they are with the present welfare system.
"The worst-case scenario is possible; it is just not likely," said Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. "I think that the political system is perfectly willing to have homeless men and perhaps some homeless women, but it is not ready to have homeless families."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LEVY, CLIFFORD J EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



385 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Loosening the Timetable for Bringing G.I.'s Home

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ON one level, President Clinton's decision to keep American troops in Bosnia way past their one-year deadline is a blatant about-face.
Last year, when he was selling America on his decision to help enforce a peace settlement in the Balkans, Mr. Clinton promised that the troops would be home by the end of 1996. Last week, to almost nobody's surprise, he said some G.I.'s would be needed for 18 months more. 
 Yes, that's an about-face. But something else is going on too.
The Bosnia decision shattered one pillars of recent military thinking: the need for a clear-cut exit strategy whenever American troops are put in harm's way. And as if to show how easy it is now to commit American troops abroad, Mr. Clinton announced at the same news conference that G.I.'s would join a Canadian-led peacekeeping unit in Zaire.
What's more, there seems to be little public opposition. In the absence of American casualties in Bosnia, the public no longer seems to be so intent on knowing just when its troops will return from a mission overseas.
This is a big change from a year ago, when the President said: "If we leave after a year, and they decide they don't like the benefits of peace and they're going to start fighting again, that does not mean NATO failed. It means we gave them a chance to make their peace and they blew it."
Last week, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that the Administration was wrong to think peace could take root in only a year. "Quite frankly," he said, "rebuilding the fabric of Bosnia's economic and political life is taking longer than anticipated."
President Clinton's decision on Bosnia also changed the look of American participation in the effort to deliver relief aid in Zaire. If Mr. Clinton easily extended the United States' foray into Bosnia, why would he feel compelled to stick with his announced deadline of four months for the African expedition?
Mr. Clinton didn't even feel he had to do much consulting with Congress before announcing his decisions on Bosnia and Zaire. With the Republican-led Congress out of session, he made his announcement at a hastily-called news conference.
By contrast, when he announced the Bosnia decision last year, he made a formal address to the American people and sent his top military advisers to Capitol Hill for extensive briefings.
The premise that American forces shouldn't be committed overseas without a clear idea of when they could be extracted was sanctified in the military doctrine espoused by Colin Powell when he was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It held that the United States should intervene militarily only when its vital interests are threatened, only with overwhelming force, only when there is a clear goal and a defined exit strategy.
But the date when the troops come home is determined as much by politics as by the military situation, and both can change.
In its 1994 mission to feed refugees in Rwanda and in its mission to restore democracy to Haiti that year, the Administration stuck to its schedules. But in Bosnia, the Administration found it easy to drop the idea that a timetable for leaving had to be obeyed, once it decided that the timetable no longer made sense.
In a convoluted explanation, Secretary of Defense William Perry admitted that while America had achieved the military goals, this wasn't enough to claim victory and go home. The deadline, he told reporters, "was right in the sense that all of the specific tasks spelled out we did do in 12 months; it was not right in the sense that those tasks were enough to allow us to safely leave the country."
Both the Bosnia and Zaire decisions show just how far the Administration has moved toward the thinking advocated by Madeleine Albright, the American representative to the United Nations, and by Gen. John Shalikashvili, General Powell's successor as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 
 
 
Do What Can Be Done
 The two top-level officials firmly believe that the Powell Doctrine is a cold war relic, ill-suited to today's less rigid world system. For months, Ms. Albright has pushed for what she calls the "doability doctrine": that America should use its military power in flexible ways to achieve practical, if limited, goals.
That strategy may make it easier to map out a use for American forces in places like Bosnia and Zaire, where the social and political problems defy easy solutions. But it may also make for American frustration: As peacekeepers, what the G.I.'s can accomplish may well prove incomplete or temporary.
In Bosnia, for example, a report issued last week by the independent International Crisis Group concluded that the civilian provisions of the peace agreement reached a year ago in Dayton, Ohio, "are in crisis." People indicted as war criminals remain at large; leaders responsible for the outbreak of war have been given a new mandate to govern in fraudulent elections and repatriation of refugees has failed, the report said.
The continued deployment of NATO troops is not intended to resolve these problems, only to promote stability.
In a similar sense, the crisis in Zaire is a product of business left unfinished from the crisis in neighboring Rwanda two years ago, when America and its allies left refugee camps under the control of Rwandan Hutu militia leaders rather than send the refugees home.
So much for exit strategies. Is there ever a final exit from a problem that was left unsolved?

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton made American soldiers available for a peacekeeping force in Zaire, where a man cried over his wife's body Friday as refugees streamed along a road. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); RWANDA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; RWANDA; CANADA; ZAIRE; UNITED STATES (98%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); RWANDA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; PUBLIC OPINION ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN; SHALIKASHVILI, JOHN M (GEN); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (AMB); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; SCIOLINO, ELAINE BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



386 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: A California University Opens Dorm for the Business-Minded

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Nov. 16

 BODY:
Although Kai Zhu, a 20-year-old student at the California Institute of Technology, is majoring in physics, he says he could see himself having a career as a businessman.
"I want to make a lot of money," he said. 
 To that end, Mr. Zhu, of Houston, who is treasurer of the campus entrepreneur club and a member of the student stock investment club, is hoping to increase his money-making skills by living in a new dormitory where everything revolves around success in business.
Called Avery House (after Stanton Avery, founder of an adhesive products company), the $16.1 million Spanish mission-style residence is thought to be the nation's first dormitory to "embody the spirit of entrepreneurship."
Corporate leaders -- many of them alumni -- will give talks in the library (which is lined with photographs and life stories of business leaders), eat with students in the dining hall and live in the dormitory for a few days when they visit.
Although the house has been open for a month, the program formally began this week with a visit from Bill Gross, founder of a children's computer software company. Mr. Gross graduated from Caltech in 1981 and is a trustee of the school.
"What can be more compelling than getting real life stories from people who have done exceptional things," said Gary J. Schwarzmueller, executive director of the Association of College and University Housing Officers-International.
Caltech is best known for its science and engineering programs, but by bringing in corporate leaders and entrepreneurs, said Kim D. West, director of residence life, the unversity hopes to expose students to more than just scholarship and research. The lectures at the dormitories will be open to anyone on campus.
Yet for all the planning, some of the 130 students living in Avery House say the amenities, more than the philosophy, have drawn them to it. Air-conditioning, good meals and rooms with courtyard views were the attractions most often mentioned by about a dozen students.
"There are people here who would be interested in hearing the speakers," said Ben Williamson, 16, a sophomore in computer science who enrolled at Caltech at age 14. "But I don't think there was a single person who said, 'Avery is the entrepreneurial house, I want to live there.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DORMITORIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS STUDENT HOUSING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); 

PERSON: BILL GROSS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



387 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Irwin Brodsky, 86, Expert on Stock Tax

 BODY:
Irwin A. Brodsky, who began his career as a messenger at the Wall Street firm of J. W. Seligman & Company and rose to become its general manager, died of cancer on Nov. 7 at Franklin General Hospital in Valley Stream, L.I.
He was 86 and lived in West Hempstead, L.I. 
 During his 32 years with J. W. Seligman, Mr. Brodsky acquired a reputation on Wall Street as an expert on stock-transfer taxation and securities-law compliance.
He left J. W Seligman in 1960 and joined the investment banking and brokerage firm of Model Roland & Stone as a managing partner and later became managing director. He helped guide the firm through a number of mergers before retiring in 1988, when the company became part of Prudential Securities.
Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Brodsky studied economics at the City College of New York and law at St. John's Law School.
He is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Helen Kamen; two sons, William, of Chicago, and Howard, of DeWitt, N.Y., and a daughter, Tina Bellet, of Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); DEATHS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); MERGERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: BRODSKY, IRWIN A IRWIN A BRODSKY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



388 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Pope to Meet Castro as a Possible Prelude to Papal Trip to Cuba

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Pope John Paul II will meet on Tuesday with Fidel Castro, the Vatican said today in a brief announcement that suggested that a trip to Cuba by the Pope is under active discussion.
The meeting itself, requested by Mr. Castro after his arrival here this morning to attend the World Food Summit, will mark an important milepost in the tentative dialogue between the Roman Catholic Church and one of the world's last Communist strongholds. 
 For Mr. Castro, 70, who like many Cubans of his generation was raised in Catholic schools, the meeting will be a sign that his efforts to make peace with the church are paying off. For the Vatican, it will be another opportunity to wring more concessions from a Government that is reluctant to relinquish its last controls on religious life.
A papal trip to Cuba -- the only Spanish-speaking country in Latin American that Pope John Paul II has not visited -- has become a key bargaining chip for both sides. Mr. Castro has offered an open-ended invitation to the Pope in the past, but John Paul has insisted on having the opportunity to meet with and be heard by large numbers of people.
A recent visit to Cuba by a Vatican envoy, Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran, resulted in some improved conditions for the church in Cuba, which is suffering from years of repression. According to Vatican officials, Mr. Castro's Government agreed to liberalize travel for visiting clergy members, but held out on other demands made by the Vatican.
After the dramatic impact of the Pope's visit to his native Poland in 1979 and later to other Communist countries that were still under Communist rule, Mr. Castro's wariness is understandable, analysts say.
"The Pope's visit to Cuba would change the dynamic of the country and that would be a risk for Castro," said the Rev. Miquel Loredo, a Franciscan monk who spent 10 years in prison in Cuba and now lives in New York. "Castro has been pushing for small-scale meetings, with no large Masses. That is one of the points they are still debating."
Mr. Castro, wearing his signature military fatigues and traveling with an entourage of more than 100, arrived here at 1:30 A.M. this morning after a storm delayed his departure from Cuba.
In a speech today at the World Food Summit, Mr. Castro went straight into high gear, blasting the gathering for failing to address the causes of world hunger, which he blamed on "capitalism, neo-liberalism, the laws of a wild market, the external debt, underdevelopment and conditions of inequality."
Mr. Castro, one of six vice chairmen at the meeting, used the forum to attack "absurd" economic sanctions, a reference to the 34-year-old United States economic blockade of Cuba, which he said only compounded hunger and misery. He mocked the meeting's pledge to halve the number of hungry in the world in 20 years as "shameful" in its modesty.
Even before Mr. Castro's arrival, his visit set off a debate in Italy. For weeks now, photographs of a younger, more dashing Castro have been plastered along the walls of Rome on posters welcoming him. The Cuban Embassy said it received 2,100 requests for interviews, and the far-left newspaper Il Manifesto this week inserted copies of Granma, Cuba's party-controlled newspaper, in its editions.
But for the mainstream Italian left, mainly the Party of the Democratic Left, the remnants of the old Italian Communist Party and the largest party in the current coalition Government, Mr. Castro is also a troublesome figure who represents a past that has become irrelevant in an increasingly non-ideological Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); HOLY SEE (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (59%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); HOLY SEE (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (59%); 

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); POPE (JOHN PAUL II) FIDEL CASTRO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



389 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Wolves' Howl Could Return In Adirondacks

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 16

 BODY:
A few years back, when Hank Fischer of the Defenders of Wildlife was trying to convince hostile Western ranchers to accept the reintroduction of gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park, he was sometimes met with a counterchallenge: Since Easterners are so interested in wolves, "why don't you introduce them to New York City or Washington, D.C.?"
Washington may be a little too dangerous for wolves, Mr. Fischer jokes, and they are not likely to be in Central Park any time soon. But a nascent effort to return them to New York State -- specifically, the Adirondacks -- is gaining traction with the surprising and widely publicized success of the Yellowstone reintroduction program, now nearly two years old. 
 Nine packs totaling 40 free-ranging wolves have become established in and around Yellowstone and are breeding so successfully that Mike Phillips, a National Park Service biologist who directs the program, says the endangered gray wolf is beginning "to flirt with recovery," well ahead of schedule, in his part of the country.
A three-day conference on the wolves of America, which ended today, was conducted by the Defenders of Wildlife here specifically to showcase its drive to return wolves to the Adirondacks and parts of Maine and New Hampshire, from which they have been absent for a century. The Defenders, a private Washington-based conservation organization, also spearheaded the Yellowstone campaign.
State officials, who would be responsible for approving and managing a restoration program in the 5.4-million-acre Adirondack Park, are cautious: the wolf is a talismanic creature that provokes the strongest of sentiments pro and con.
The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation will remain neutral pending a study, Alan C. Hicks, senior wildlife biologist for the department, said at the conference. The Defenders of Wildlife has offered to finance a feasibility study -- the first official step in what would undoubtedly be a long public process -- and the two conservation groups have started discussions. Defenders of Wildlife says it has gathered 40,000 petition signatures in support of conducting a study.
Gov. George E. Pataki "doesn't believe that the reintroduction of the wolf to the Adirondacks should be imposed by Albany," said Michael F. McKeon, a spokesman. "It would have to have the support of local communities."
The controversy has already begun. Mark F. Emery, a spokesman for the New York Farm Bureau, the state's largest agriculture-lobbying group, called the proposal ludicrous.
"We already have an overabundance of predators, particularly coyotes," he said. "From a livestock standpoint, the wolf would do a number on sheep operations and also dairy farms. There are both sheep and dairy operations in the park itself and within a short distance, and wolves certainly are not limited in their travel."
Dr. L. David Mech, a Federal biologist regarded as one of the world's top experts on wolves, acknowledged that the downside of wolf reintroduction is livestock depredation. As a wolf population expands, he said, it spreads outside parks.
But advocates say that livestock losses would be small, as they have been around Yellowstone and in central Idaho, where wolves have also been reintroduced, and in northwestern Montana, which they have recolonized naturally. Defenders of Wildlife, which is supported by members and contributors, compensates for such losses. Wolves that habitually attack livestock are themselves killed in the West. One has so far been eliminated near Yellowstone, Mr. Phillips said.
Dr. Mech said he thought the price of killing a few wolves when necessary was worth it, since the alternative would be no wolves at all.
Therein lies another possible source of contention. "People don't like the idea that wolves have to be killed," said Mr. Fischer, the Northern Rockies representative of the Defenders of Wildlife. Wolves typically live only six years. "They are going to die somehow," Mr. Fischer said. "It's a hard balance to strike."
Advocates of reintroduction argue that wolves have become such a popular tourist attraction wherever they exist that the dollars they would generate in the economically depressed Adirondacks would far outweigh any livestock losses. Proponents say further that the wolf, as a keystone predator, would restore wholeness and balance to an out-of-kilter ecosystem -- for instance, by reducing a runaway beaver population that many residents of the region find intolerable.
While the gray wolf remains plentiful in Canada and Alaska, it was systematically exterminated because it was a predator by the early 20th century in most of the contiguous 48 states, where it is officially listed as endangered. An exception is Minnesota, where there are some 2,000 wolves bearing the less serious designation of threatened. Most biologists agree that the Eastern timber wolf, a subspecies of gray wolf, formerly inhabited the Adirondacks.
There was also wide agreement among experts at the conference that the Adirondacks offer an ideal wolf habitat. As the largest remaining wild area in the East, they said, it contains enough deer and beaver to support roughly 150 wolves without reducing deer herds enough to cut into hunters' game supply.
But while biological feasibility may not be a problem, Mr. Hicks said, the state also requires that a reintroduction be socially acceptable.
Some attending the conference noted that 130,000 people live on the 60 percent of Adirondack Park land that is privately owned, and they expressed concern about wolves coming into contact with humans. But biologists said there appeared to be enough public wilderness to support wolves, and experts are unanimous in saying wolves so fear people that they will not come near them.
Veterans of the recent wolf wars that flared over reintroductions in the West sounded one theme strongly: Respect local concerns. Reasonableness, "rather than just coming in bulling your way onto the block," is the way to go, Mr. Phillips said.
Feelings about wolves "run the entire gamut, and on both ends of the spectrum they're very vocal," Dr. Mech said. Although some experts believe that attitudes about wolves are becoming more positive, primal fears die hard. Kent Weber, who operates Mission: Wolf, a refuge for unwanted wolf pets in Colorado, was asked what he considered the biggest obstacle to wolf reintroduction. "Little Red Riding Hood," he answered.
Dr. Mech says that in North America, where hoofed animals that provide the wolf's main meals are plentiful, there is no documented case of serious injury to a human by an unprovoked, nonrabid wolf. It is not as if advocates are "asking to introduce the timber rattler to Long Island," said Dr. John I. Green, a wolf expert at St. Lawrence University who favors the reintroduction.
Polls being conducted by the Defenders of Wildlife are not yet complete. But Dr. Stephen R. Kellert of Yale University, who studies attitudes about nature, predicted that while "farmers will weigh in against wolf reintroduction, I don't think you will get anywhere near the kind of opposition that occurred out west." For one thing, he said, those who most strongly support wolves -- educated urbanites -- are concentrated in the Northeast.
New Yorkers prize the Adirondacks' "legacy of wilderness," said Michael G. DiNunzio, director of research and education for the Adirondack Council, an environmental group based in the region. Wolf reintroduction is "right for the wolf, it's right for the park and it's right for people," he said.
The wolf, Dr. Kellert has written, is a "powerful barometer of changing attitudes toward the natural world." North America, he wrote in the August issue of the scientific journal Conservation Biology, is "at the cusp of a profound transition in values toward wolves, wildlife and wilderness."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cubs peering from their den in Yellowstone National Park, where wolves were reintroduced two years ago. (Bary and Terri O'Neill); Sila, a 6-year-old female wolf, was on display at a news conference in Albany on Friday. Tom Zieber was at the other end of the leash. (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times) (pg. 44)
 
Map of Adirondack Park showing the location of the Eastern Timber Wolf Recovery Areas. (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (93%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (93%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (93%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (93%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS; YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; NEW YORK STATE; MAINE; NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WOLVES NATIONAL PARKS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LOBBYING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); PETITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K; PHILLIPS, MICHAEL HANK FISCHER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



390 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: World Is Less Crowded Than Expected, the U.N. Reports

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16

 BODY:
A new survey by the United Nations has found that the world's population is growing almost everywhere more slowly than expected even a few years ago. The study also found that the number of people being added to the world each year has begun to fall sooner than anticipated.
"The world's population is stabilizing sooner than we thought," said Joseph Chamie, director of the United Nations Population Division, which collects and analyzes population data. "We had some glimmer that this was occurring several years ago, but we weren't sure if it was simply a blip. Now we actually have concrete results showing this is a global trend." 
 The new population figures, now circulating among United Nations agencies, will be published with analysis and commentary in book form early next year.
Mr. Chamie and other analysts say the family planning and other aid programs of the 1960's and 1970's that gave couples around the world more control over the number of children they had, augmented by more recent programs to give women more economic power and social status, have paid off in steady, continuous fertility declines in every region.
But analysts caution that the gains could be reversed if foreign aid budgets continue to shrink and opposition to family planning programs and other aid intended to enhance women's rights restricts the activities of international agencies.
"There is no guarantee that these trends will be sustained," said Mr. Chamie, who is an American. "They could stagnate or switch back."
J. Brian Atwood, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, called the new figures heartening.
"The United States has been the world leader in family planning for more than three decades," he said. "The American people should feel proud of the contribution programs funded by their tax dollars have made in improving the lives of literally hundreds of millions of people around the world. The bitter irony is that recent shortsighted cuts in our population and development assistance programs represent a clear step backward."
Population declines are also explained, though to a lesser extent, by higher death rates in some areas, Mr. Chamie said. Wars and AIDS have reduced life expectancy in Africa. In Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, life expectancy has also declined.
The new United Nations figures, covering 1990 to 1995, show a population growth rate worldwide of 1.48 percent a year, significantly lower than the 1.57 percent projected by the previous report in 1994. The world therefore already has 29 million fewer people than expected.
In the same 1990-1995 period, fertility also declined, to an average of 2.96 children per woman. The projected figure had been 3.1. By 2050, United Nations analysts now say, the world's population could be 9.4 billion, nearly half a billion lower than 1994 projections. The United Nations says there are now 5.77 billion people on earth.
World population figures, and why they change, can fuel passionate debate among demographers and policy makers. The current statistics are no exception. Critics of family planning, including Rep. Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey, who has led a campaign in Congress to cut American contributions to international family planning programs, say the money is finding its way into supporting abortion services.
He also says aid money is better spent on improving the lives of children and strengthening market economies, leading to better living standards and ultimately to smaller families even in the poorest countries. He says telling people how many children to have is a cultural intrusion by Westerners. Many in the developing world agree.
Mr. Chamie does not take issue with the belief that better education and rising living standards play a part in declining birth rates, but he and other experts argue that unless couples have access to safe contraceptives compatible with their cultural and religious beliefs, they are limited in how they can fulfill their hopes of smaller families, and population declines are much slower.
He points to countries like Bangladesh, Syria and Turkey, where even among poor populations, birth rates have been reduced before people's living standards rise.
"How long would it take to raise education levels in Bangladesh?" he asked. "Why wait? If you can provide help now, why not? The argument has been that you need socioeconomic growth to bring down fertility, but that has been shown in many instances not to be required."
In fact, he said, it often worked the other way: women with access to family planning cut family size first, and their own and their families' economic situations consequently improved.
"Childbearing and marriage are being postponed," he said. "There is more opportunity for women -- and men -- to follow pursuits other than feeding and maintaining households. And it has been done not by government population control programs in many places, but by giving people the right and wherewithal to choose.
"The more that you have people meeting their aspirations and desires in something as fundamental as reproduction, that is something that can be seen as very good progress."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT: The Population Explosion Slows Down" A new United Nations study has found that the world's population is growing more slowly than was expected. This suggests that the world's population, now 5.77 billion, will stabilize just after the year 2200 at 10.73 billion. Shown is the world population from 1800 to stabilization based on United Nations projections, in billions. (Source: United Nations)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FORECASTS POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FAMILY PLANNING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); WOMEN (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA JOSEPH CHAMIE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



391 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Scenic Mountains Scarred by Illegal Border Crossings

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: OTAY MOUNTAIN, Calif.

 BODY:
In some canyons, it looks as if hundreds of Hansels and Gretels have scattered trails of trash behind them, marking the route from Tijuana.
New paths fork across almost every slope, giving parts of this once-lonely mountain the threadbare look of the more trafficked corners of a city park. 
 And a 15,000-acre swath of the mountain ridge is stripped and sooty, burned last month to a Halloweenish landscape of naked black branches and orange dust by a wildfire that the authorities are convinced was sparked by an illegal border-crosser. Who else, they ask, would have been desperate enough to be up on a 4,000-foot peak building a campfire here on a windy autumn night?
"I've never seen an area like this before," said Jo Simpson, assistant district manager for the Federal Bureau of Land Management. "It's just been trashed. They've cut numerous trails, so that degraded it, and the ultimate degradation was when they burnt it."
As the Federal Government has tried, over the last two years, to stem the stream of illegal immigration near San Diego, the battle has spread to this forbidding stretch of public land, a range of heights and draws 15 miles east of the Pacific Ocean.
Clandestine crossers who once could hop a fence near the ocean at the edge of Tijuana's urban sprawl now face beefed-up patrols and barriers. Increasingly, they have been turning to perilous treks of five or six miles through these mountains, risking heat exhaustion in summer highs of 110 degrees, bandits, snakes and thirst.
Initial Government plans for the region had figured the terrain would be enough to stop most illegal crossers here. They were wrong.
Instead, the traffic in the Otay Mountain area has set off a striking side-skirmish in the border war. The immigrants are taking to these mountains in such numbers -- hundreds each night, it is estimated -- that nature lovers and Government officials warn that they are threatening the environment here.
"It's a biological jewel," Nick Ervin, desert committee chairman of the San Diego Sierra Club, said of the Otay Mountain region. "The Tecate cypress exists almost nowhere else in the world and it's in abundance on Otay Mountain, which is a prime area for several rare and endangered plants. And now the area's being largely ruined."
Much of the Otay Mountain environs are officially designated by the Department of the Interior as a protected Wilderness Study Area because of those rare plants. Unfortunately, the plants tend to grow in the very canyon beds where the illegal immigrants tread, their feet grinding down the root systems of the fragile growths.
The fires, a vast majority of which are caused by campfires, also have environmentalists and Government officials worried; though fires are part of the natural cycle here, they are becoming so frequent that they threaten to wipe some plants out, Mr. Ervin said.
More than 322 fires have been spotted in the Otay Mountain area this year, said Richard D. Franklin, the Interior Department's chief of fire and aviation management for the California desert region. His firefighters have taken to helicopter flights three times a week to find the remains of the campfires the illegal immigrants leave, he said. Out of fear that immigrants will be trapped and killed in the blazes, they spend hundreds of thousands of dollars extinguishing fires they would normally have let burn out naturally.
San Diego County officials, afraid that they might have to foot the bill for treating burn victims in these mountains, declared a state of emergency here this summer to attract more state and Federal money, and Federal officials have erected several signs on the most traveled Otay footpaths, warning in Spanish: "It is difficult to escape a fire in action."
It is even more difficult to stop the flow of people leaving the economic deprivation of Mexico for the under-the-table jobs waiting for them in the United States. The Border Patrol has almost doubled the personnel in its San Diego sector since 1993, to nearly 2,000 agents, and is catching a half-million illegal immigrants a year.
But "the economic push and pull are so incredible that it's like you hear a giant sucking sound," said Jim Pilkington, a Border Patrol agent and spokesman.
The power of that pull became clear when Pedro Acosta, 43, and Francisco Arroyo, 30, two Mexicans caught by the Border Patrol one recent afternoon just after they had made it over the mountain, described the terrors of their trip. They spoke from a Border Patrol van on their way to be processed and deported.
"We're very afraid of the journey," said Mr. Acosta, a gardener who had been on his way to an American job from his hometown of Sinaloa. "There are people who don't make it -- and if you get lost in the mountains and can't find your way, you remain there."
Mr. Arroyo, 30, said, "You can fall, there are the bandits, the snakes and lots of people die when there is fire."
Both men looked exhausted after an all-night trek up miles of rugged slopes. Although some immigrants hire guides to help them with the crossing, Mr. Acosta and Mr. Arroyo said they had not.
In the last two years, the Border Patrol has recorded more than 20 immigrants' deaths in the region, most from exposure. They have also noticed that almost all the crossers they catch now are young men, since most women and children no longer try the mountain ordeal.
The patrol is trying to stop even that traffic, pouring dozens of new agents into the area.
No one expects a quick end to the illegal foot traffic, but environmentalists hope that one of these days, the area might again be safe enough to hike in without fear of meeting up with bandits, border police officers or quick-moving wildfires.
But for now, Mr. Ervin said, hikers say, "There's no way I'm going to Otay Mountain -- it's a war zone in there."

GRAPHIC: Map of California showing the location of Otay Mountain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LAND MANAGEMENT, BUREAU OF SAN DIEGO SIERRA CLUB (63%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (56%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAND MANAGEMENT, BUREAU OF BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (56%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); MEXICO; OTAY MOUNTAIN (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; WILDERNESS AREAS; ILLEGAL ALIENS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PLANT CONSERVATION (84%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FOREST FIRES (76%); REFUGEES (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); WILDERNESS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; SIMPSON, JO

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



392 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International
 
REFUGEES OVERWHELM RWANDA
 
Facing a tide of humanity, Rwandan troops and aid workers gave up on holding Rwandan refugees in a temporary camp near the border, and instead directed them to march straight into the country, without any formalities. 1
 
NORTH KOREA'S LAST COMMANDO
 
Somewhere in the mountains near the gash of barbed wire and trenches that divides the Korean Peninsula, a single North Korean commando is thought to be hiding, trying to sneak back home after having evaded 60,000 South Korean troops. 6
 
SLOWER POPULATION GROWTH
 
A new survey by the United Nations has found that the world's population has suddenly begun growing more slowly than expected even a few years ago. 3
 
EXPLOSION IN SOUTHERN RUSSIA
 
As many as 32 people were killed when an explosion destroyed a building housing Russian military officers in the southern region of Dagestan. 3
 
POPE AND CASTRO TO MEET
 
Pope John Paul II will meet Fidel Castro on Tuesday, an encounter that could lead to a papal visit to Cuba, the Vatican announced. 4
 
INDIA AFTER THE CRASH
 
Dozens of relatives of the victims of a midair collision near New Delhi made exhausting journeys to the Indian capital, many of them in buses and cars over days, to identify bodies. 6
 
CLINTON HEADS TO ASIA
 
President Clinton arrived in Hawaii Friday night, hoping to gird himself for state visits to Australia and Thailand and for an Asian-Pacific economic conference this week in the Philippines. 6
 
A CHANGE IN CHILE
 
While many Latins say they admire Chile's economic success, others say prosperity is altering the character of the country, turning arrogant a people long viewed as shy and reserved. 8
 
REFUGEES IN THE BALKANS
 
The right of refugees to return to their homes is a basic tenet of the Bosnian peace accord, but officials say that Croatia has set up a dizzying array of bureaucratic roadblocks to keep away Serbs. 8
 
National
 
BITTER FIGHT FOR A UNION
 
By most accounts, the race for teamsters' union president is neck-and-neck, pitting one of the most famous labor names against a man hailed by many for cleansing a notoriously corrupt union. 1
 
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS OUT
 
Narrowing a hotly contested battle to build a one-size-fits-all combat aircraft, the Pentagon eliminated the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, the contender that had the most to lose from being cut. 1
 
LEGAL VS. ILLEGAL DRUG USE
 
By approving initiatives to permit the use of marijuana for medical purposes, California and Arizona voters have touched off a nationwide battle over illegal drugs. 16
 
KLAN MUSEUM OPEN
 
"The World's Only Klan Museum," with its "Redneck Shop," is open for business in Laurens, S.C., awaiting the outcome of a Federal lawsuit that challenges the city's refusal to grant the museum a license to operate. 16
 
INSECT SPRAY LEAVES DANGER
 
Investigators say that two unlicensed exterminators sprayed at least 300 houses and businesses in Mississippi, including up to five day-care centers, with a toxic insecticide approved only for outdoor use. 23
 
LANGUAGE WAR AT DEVILS LAKE
 
The name Devils Lake has spurred a language war between whites and Indians living near North Dakota's largest natural lake. 28
 
CORPORATE VULNERABILITY
 
News analysis: Texaco's decision to settle a Federal discrimination lawsuit provides evidence of how vulnerable consumer-oriented corporations can be to bad publicity and outside pressure. 20
 
H.M.O.'S CLAIM IMMUNITY
 
Health maintenance organizations say they cannot be held responsible for medical malpractice in cases involving patients who receive care through an employer-sponsored health plan, an assertion the Clinton Administration calls absurd. 24
 
Metropolitan
 
BACK TO SCHOOL, FROM JAIL
 
For a growing number of teen-agers across the country, getting into school after getting out of jail means crossing a precarious threshold, their home and street lives constantly threatening to unravel their progress or lure them back to a criminal world. 1
 
MOVE TO RETURN WOLVES TO EAST
 
A nascent effort to return gray wolves to New York State -- specifically, the Adirondacks -- is gaining new traction with the widely publicized success of the Yellowstone reintroduction program. 1
 
SUBWAY TUNNELS TO NOWHERE
 
The New York subway system was envisioned to go far more places than it does today. Some of this elaborately plotted system never emerged from planners' doodles but a surprising amount of it can be seen in concrete, brick and tile in spur lines leading to nowhere. 37
 
Obituaries 45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (81%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); RWANDA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); CHILE (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CUBA (76%); THAILAND (74%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (81%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); RWANDA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); CHILE (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CUBA (76%); THAILAND (74%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (84%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (83%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CANNABIS (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); RELIGION (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (63%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); FIDEL CASTRO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



393 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: How a Stalled Submarine Sank North Korea's Hopes

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Somewhere in the mountains near the gash of barbed wire and trenches that divides the Korean Peninsula, a single North Korean commando is thought to be hiding in the woods, trying to sneak back home again.
He has evaded 60,000 South Korean troops and is now the only survivor at large of 26 North Korean infiltrators who swam ashore in September when their submarine ran aground on the South Korean coast. Yet even if he creeps safely across the minefields to return home to a hero's welcome, bringing with him photos and other intelligence, the submarine mission could scarcely have been more catastrophic for North Korea's other interests. 
 The intrusion of the 106-foot submarine seems for now to have scuttled a process of engagement intended to bring North Korea out of isolation and help ease its famine. Most political experts say inter-Korean relations will eventually get back on track. But some fear that tensions could unravel recent progress, including a landmark 1994 accord under which North Korea agreed to give up its suspected nuclear weapons program.
South Korea, whose policy toward North Korea resembles a slalom course, has now veered again, this time inaugurating a hard line. The South is refusing to cooperate with the North unless it receives an apology for the submarine incursion and a promise that such incursions will not happen again.
"Time is on our side, not theirs," said South Korea's chief Foreign Ministry spokesman, Suh Dae Won. "You know the food and energy situation there."
Mr. Suh says North Korea's problems may lead it to apologize. But some American and South Korean experts worry that famine and economic disintegration could lead the North to use the only asset it has left: an army well fortified with chemical weapons and artillery aimed at Seoul. It might launch a skirmish to break the deadlock, or even try to invade the South.
"We're preparing," said Lieut. Gen. Park Yong Ok, the Assistant Defense Minister. "We think that North Korea will make large- or small-scale military provocations."
So American and Korean experts alike summarize the upshot of the submarine incident, two months later, as follows: a surge of tension, fears of further military provocations or even war, stalling of the engagement process, a growing number of hungry North Korean peasants and a reminder that it is hard to find a place less predictable than the Korean Peninsula.
Yet the submarine's one accomplishment, from North Korea's point of view, is the creation of a rift between Washington and Seoul.
Already, some American officials seem to feel that their biggest headache on the peninsula is the Government in the South. For their part, many South Koreans are still fuming about how after the submarine incursion Secretary of State Warren Christopher called for restraint from "all parties." For the South Koreans, that was too evenhanded for comfort.
One of the puzzles remains what the submarine's mission was. Of the 26 infiltrators, only 1 was captured alive, and he apparently did not know the mission. General Park said the purpose may have been to set up an armed hideout in the mountains, in preparation for future terrorism.
"It was not purely an intelligence mission," he said.
The South Korean Army's difficulty in capturing the commandos has also rattled self-confidence here, particularly because North Korea is believed to have nearly 100,000 special forces whose mission would be to infiltrate rear areas of South Korea at the beginning of an invasion. South Korea's Defense Ministry, which in recent years had focused on preparing for front-line combat, is adjusting its military doctrine to emphasize detection of infiltrators.
Still, the uproar over the submarine strikes some experts as disingenuous. While South Korea gets its data on the North from satellite images supplied by Washington, the North gets its intelligence from infiltrators, and submarines are believed to drop off infiltrators regularly. Some military experts say the unusual element in this case was not that a submarine dropped off commandos, but that it got caught.
Thus, many Koreans say another reason President Kim Young Sam of South Korea has reacted so harshly is to shore up his popularity at home.
"Politically, it's a way for Kim Young Sam to maintain tension and authority to prevent himself from becoming a lame duck," said Michael Breen, a Seoul resident and a consultant with expertise on North Korea. Mr. Kim, who declined to be interviewed, has just over a year left in office, and cannot run again.
One indication that the hard line in South Korea is not temporary is that Foreign Minister Gong Ro Myung, a natural conciliator, resigned this month, apparently forced out. He was replaced by Yoo Chong Ha, who displays a more truculent attitude toward the North.
Both men briefed the United States Ambassador, James T. Laney, on the submarine incursion on the same day, but the briefings were far apart in tone, a Washington official said. Mr. Gong gave a measured assessment; Mr. Yoo's was pugnacious.
South Korea's demand for an apology creates major new uncertainties for two important initiatives to engage North Korea. One is the 1994 Framework Agreement, under which North Korea agreed to give up its suspected nuclear weapons program in exchange for oil and a set of light-water nuclear reactors.
South Korean workers were supposed to have begun work this month on the site of the new reactors, but now that has been postponed until the North apologizes. In any case, not much work could have been done while the ground is frozen. But there could be a crisis in the spring if South Korea refused to proceed with the nuclear accord and the North then threatened to back out of it.
In the latest salvo, North Korea issued a statement today accusing the United States and South Korea of breaking the Framework Agreement and threatened to restart its nuclear program.
Part of the problem is that both North and South have more of a taste for brinkmanship than the United States does. And both have found that crises get the White House's attention.
Another initiative at risk is a proposal for four-party peace talks, involving the United States, the two Koreas and China.
Presidents Kim and Clinton proposed the four-part talks this spring, but behind the scenes Mr. Kim was very reluctant to support the idea. Washington got him on board by telling him that Mr. Clinton would visit South Korea only if Mr. Kim agreed to the four-party talks.
North Korea had been wary of the four-party talks, but it recently had been moving toward accepting a "briefing" on the proposal from American and South Korean officials. Now the initiative is on hold until the submarine episode blows over. North Korea said this week that it had no choice but to consider the entire peace talks proposal withdrawn.
Many experts describe the current behavior as posturing, and say the two Koreas may get down to business again next spring.
"You should not take this harder position as one that will last forever," a South Korean official said.
A 26-year-old American missionary, Evan Carl Hunziker, stumbled into the picture in August, when for some reason he swam from China into North Korea. Now North Korea is accusing Mr. Hunziker of being a spy, and using him as a bargaining chip to win negotiations with Washington.
Aside from the submarine incursion -- and the assassination of a South Korean diplomat in Russia shortly afterward, possibly by North Korea in retaliation for the killing of its commandos, the North has been relatively restrained lately. It called off a missile test last month in response to American pressure; it is opening up its skies to foreign airlines, and earlier this year it allowed a search for the remains of servicemen killed in the Korean War.
While North Korea is trying to appear moderate, the South has been squabbling with the United States, and not only about policy toward the North. The United States pays almost 90 percent of the cost of stationing 37,000 American troops in South Korea, and now Seoul is contending that the United States should also pay taxes on the small amount that South Korea does contribute.
Then, in September, the Federal Bureau of Investigation caught the South Korean Embassy in Washington allegedly running a spy in the United States Office of Naval Intelligence. The South insists that the spying was unauthorized, but officials have trouble maintaining eye contact while saying that.
So should the United States follow the South Korean model, punishing a foreign government that sends spies after its military intelligence?
Not at all, said Mr. Suh, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, adding reproachfully, "It's not fair to compare these two cases."

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korean troops patrolled the zone dividing the peninsula, where tensions rose after North Koreans entered the South from a submarine. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUBMARINES; FAMINE MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FAMINE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ARMIES (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



394 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: For Clinton, a Rest in Hawaii on Way to Economic Talks in East

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Stealing a brief respite before the first foreign trip since his election to a second term, President Clinton arrived in Hawaii Friday night, hoping to gird himself with a weekend of relaxation for state visits to Australia and Thailand and for an Asian-Pacific economic conference in the Philippines.
Mr. Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton landed at Hickam Air Force Base and were spending the weekend in a guest cottage on the oceanside grounds of Bellows Air Force Station here on Oahu. But Mr. Clinton's hopes for golf may be dashed by the heavy rains and flooding that have beleaguered the island this week. 
 In fact, while Mr. Clinton said he might go snorkeling, he told reporters aboard Air Force One on the flight from Washington on Friday that he did not expect to do much at all in the next few days.
"I've been up past midnight every night since the election, and stayed up until 1 A.M. last night," he said after ambling to the rear of the plane in jeans and a sweatshirt. "It's as hard as I've ever worked."
Indeed, pressures already surround the President as he seeks to build a foreign-policy team for the next four years. He delayed his departure for Hawaii, originally planned for last Tuesday, in part because he hoped he might be able to name a new Secretary of State before leaving. At the same time, Mr. Clinton set the terms -- announced on Friday -- for an American force to remain in Bosnia beyond the originally scheduled pullout next month, to help foster economic reconstruction and enforce the peace there.
And even as Mr. Clinton headed toward the Pacific Rim, his advisers continued to review plans for American participation in an international force to bring humanitarian relief to Rwandan refugees in Zaire -- a mission Mr. Clinton said on Friday that he had agreed in principle to join.
"As the world's most powerful nation, we cannot turn our back when so many people, especially so many innocent children, are at mortal risk," Mr. Clinton said in his weekly radio address to the nation, taped on Friday for broadcast this morning.
Whatever problems surround staffing and policy questions, this trip has been long scheduled and Mr. Clinton said on the flight here that he might let personnel decisions wait awhile. Meantime, his senior foreign-policy advisers said the trip sends an important signal about the importance Mr. Clinton places on Asia in the coming years.
"For this President, elevating our engagement with an Asia that is emerging in importance has been a priority in his first term, and it will be, I believe, of even greater importance in his second term," his deputy national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said this week. "In a global economy, in a post-cold-war world, America must look to the East no less than to the West."
The centerpiece of Mr. Clinton's 12-day trip is the meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Manila next weekend, a two-day session in which he will meet with leaders of the 18 member-countries to discuss lowering trade barriers and protecting the environment. He will also meet privately with the leaders of China, Japan and South Korea.
The United States' main goal at the conference is to win broad support for an international technology agreement that would eliminate import duties on a broad range of computer and information technology items, a strong area of exports and domestic job growth for the United States. The agreement is to be considered at the World Trade Organization meeting next month.
Before arriving in the Philippines, Mr. Clinton will make a four-day state visit to Australia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (96%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; AUSTRALIA; THAILAND; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); HAWAII, USA (96%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); COLD WAR (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); WEATHER (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); REFUGEES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



395 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Size of Texaco Discrimination Settlement Could Encourage More Lawsuits

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Texaco's decision to settle a Federal discrimination lawsuit provides evidence of how vulnerable consumer-oriented corporations can be to bad publicity and outside pressure as they deal with employee accusations of racial or sexual bias.
The settlement reached on Friday with Texaco's minority employees exceeds $140 million, making it the largest in a racial discrimination case. The size of the settlement could encourage other discrimination suits against companies and is bound to capture the attention of executives, who may want to review their companies' employment practices. 
 While there is little evidence that the Texaco boycott that was called by the Rev. Jesse Jackson and other civil rights leaders put a dent in Texaco's profits, lawyers who handle discrimination cases say the publicity and the potential for future losses put increasing pressure on Texaco to settle the suit, which was filed in early 1994, rapidly.
Despite the settlement, Mr. Jackson said today that the boycott of Texaco products would continue and that demonstrations were planned at the company's refineries and gasoline stations in cities in Connecticut, California, Florida and other states. At a news conference in Chicago, Mr. Jackson announced that his organization, the Rainbow PUSH Action Network, planned to buy $1,000 in Texaco stock to get a voice in the company and that it would study the affirmative action policies of other big companies that share directors with Texaco, like Gillette, Johnson & Johnson and Campbell Soup.
In Brooklyn, the Rev. Al Sharpton led about 20 protesters with signs at a Texaco station. " Now we must deal with corporate structure, board makeup, contracting, advertising and franchises," Mr. Sharpton said.
Lawrence Z. Lorber, a Washington lawyer who represents big corporations in discrimination suits, said: "If you are a consumer-product company, you're quite vulnerable. If you're an Exxon, or an American Express, or a Texaco, it's a big exposure. If you're a chemical company and people don't know what you make, you're really not subject to any real intervention."
The Texaco case was unusual in that it was thrust into the public arena two weeks ago after The New York Times disclosed the existence of tape recordings of several of its executives discussing the possible destruction of evidence and making disparaging comments about blacks. In most discrimination cases, such talk -- if it occurs -- never emerges from behind closed doors and so the public is never engaged, or outraged.
"If these tapes hadn't appeared," said a Federal official familiar with the case, speaking on the condition on anonymity, "this would have been the typical race discrimination case where one side says there was discrimination and the other side says there wasn't, and both would have hired $400-an-hour lawyers and fought this till kingdom come."
The Texaco case and its settlement also signal how much the landscape of employment discrimination has changed. The suit was filed by six black Texaco employees on behalf of 1,500 others, asserting that the company systematically discriminated against minority employees in promotions and had fostered a racially hostile environment.
Lawyers who handle such suits say this type of case more commonly involves allegations of sexual discrimination, mainly because it has been easier to make a case. Statistically, they say, it has been easier to show that there are large numbers of qualified white women being passed over for promotion than blacks and other minority employees.
The Texaco case indicates that blacks are finally gaining enough white-collar jobs to make these types of glass-ceiling suits possible.
"You've had, certainly since the late 1970's and the 1980's, a significant influx of African-Americans into white-collar jobs," said Mr. Lorber, the lawyer. "Now, years later, you have a whole lot of folks ready to be promoted to middle- and senior-management jobs."
Peter I. Bijur, Texaco's chairman, said after the settlement: "Texaco is committed to developing and instituting specific, effective policies that will insure that discrimination is wiped out wherever it may be, and that will expand the positive economic impact we can have on the minority community. These policies will be clearly defined and achievable, with measurable goals set out with specific timetables."
Under the settlement, Texaco will pay $115 million into a pool for the benefit of its 1,500 minority employees. It will also give pay increases of about 10 percent to those employees. Lawyers estimated that it would cost about $26.1 million over five years.
But other elements of the settlement could prove to be even more important than the amount of cash Texaco has agreed to pay. The company agreed to a number of terms that effectively redesigns its entire affirmative-action program. Indeed, under the settlement, control of many elements of the program will be turned over to a committee largely appointed by outsiders.
Civil rights leaders and employment lawyers said such terms could be significant in the future.
"We hope that we are able to structure a model for other corporate entities to emulate," said Kweisi Mfume, president and chief executive of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which is continuing to negotiate terms of an action plan with Texaco.
Still, there could be complications ahead for corporate affirmative-action programs, especially after the passage of a California ballot initiative earlier this month, banning the state from extending any preferences based on race, ethnicity or sex. Indeed, there has been speculation that affirmative-action programs for minorities and women might not be around much longer.
That prospect causes concern among some corporations, whose executives believe that affirmative-action plans can forestall discrimination suits or be used as a defense if such a suit is filed, some lawyers said. If such plans are banned, the lawyers said, these companies might find themselves more vulnerable to large class-action lawsuits brought about by the racist or sexist conduct of lower-level managers.
"One of the reasons that there has always been significant support by large companies for affirmative action, especially at the top of the companies, is because the people at the top often understand the difficulty they have in getting decision-makers on the shop floor or in the accounting department to actually change their conduct," said Barry Goldstein, a lawyer in Berkeley, Calif., who specializes in employment discrimination cases. "People have certain stereotypes and prejudices that they have grown up with, and how do you get people to change their way of acting? One answer that companies come up with is to have clear measurements of progress. That's called affirmative action."
With the size of the Texaco settlement, lawyers also expect an escalation in the amount plaintiffs will sue for and in the price of a settlement. "Plaintiffs say our situation is comparable to Texaco and those 1,500 people at Texaco got $140 million," Mr. Goldstein said. "Why should we take less than $100 million?"
And with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the ability of plaintiffs' lawyers in discrimination cases to ask for larger damage awards has increased. Much of the debate over that bill centered on whether it would force companies to establish rigid quotas.
But some business groups like the Business Roundtable were more concerned over provisions in the act that for the first time allowed plaintiffs who proved intentional discrimination to seek up to $300,000 per person in compensatory and punitive damages. Previously, plaintiffs could win only back pay. Some lawyers say that when it comes to the size of the award, the Texaco case might be a harbinger of things to come.
"I'm not aware of any other major settlements since the 1991 act went into affect," said John Relman of the Washington Lawyers Committee for civil rights, "certainly not of this magnitude."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: TEXACO INC JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION; LABOR DISCRIMINATION (93%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TOILETRIES MFG (69%); GAS STATIONS (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A JESSE JACKSON (74%); AL SHARPTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



396 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: November 10-16;
Unbalanced Budget Talk

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
The last time Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin had to haul his boss up short, the ever-loquacious President talked too much about the dollar -- and briefly sent the markets haywire. Last week Mr. Clinton did the same to Congress. In an overlong answer to a short question, he seemed to accept that the Republican majority in the Senate would pass a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.
Rather than denounce this as vigorously as he had in the past, Mr. Clinton started talking about building "escape hatches" that would allow the Government to spend more in recessions, when the economy needs stimulation. 
 Mr. Rubin feared that Democrats in Congress, seeing Mr. Clinton waffle, would abandon the Administration and vote for the popular amendment. So in the Oval Office, and then in a rare public correction of his President, Mr. Rubin argued that it is impossible to build an escape hatch for unforeseen economic events. The way to balance the budget, he says, is to cut spending, not mess with the Constitution.
Exactly what the President meant to say, the White House quickly echoed. And Mr. Rubin, it added, will be around for a second term. DAVID E. SANGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; RUBIN, ROBERT (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



397 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Honda Prelude;
When One Good Turn Deserves Another

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB 

DATELINE: PHOENICIA, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE sky is blue, the few remaining leaves are brown and the passenger is quickly turning green.
The car I am enthusiastically driving is emphatically red, a 1997 Honda Prelude Type SH, and I have spent the afternoon flinging it around every curve and corner in a swath of the northern Catskills, trying to determine if it is possible to flap this seemingly unflappable sports coupe. 
 Up treacherous Platte Clove Road from Saugerties, down winding Route 23A to Kaaterskill Falls, then out toward Hunter Mountain. Along lovely, curving Route 214 to this village on Esopus Creek, then off to Woodstock on 212, a splendid road where precise control is desirable lest you top a hill and encounter a deer -- or nearly as likely, a slow-mo VW Microbus plastered with stickers envisioning Ralph Nader in the White House.
The redesigned Prelude, which went on sale last week, is made for roads like these, and for tight Interstate ramps and urban traffic in which only the nimble can be quick. The handling is so flat and neutral that normally cautious drivers may find themselves taking corners faster than they ever dared, trying to find the Prelude's limits and wondering if the 16-inch tires will squeal before a queasy companion does.
Lest any Naderites get the wrong impression, it should be noted that the point of this Prelude is not reckless abandon but exquisite control. The double-wishbone suspension is solid and stable, and the test car had a stability control that Honda calls the Active Torque Transfer System. It helps in cornering by monitoring the front wheels' speed, the angle of the steering and the various forces involved in making a turn, and it directs power from the wheel on the inside to the one on the outside. The process is akin to a rower's steering a boat by paddling harder with the outside oar.
The stability control made the Type SH feel go-kart responsive on a test track set up by Honda, but its benefits are less obvious in everyday driving. You'll probably not engage it when leaving your driveway or dodging ruminants in the road. Since it works mainly when the car accelerates, neutralizing the tendency of a front-wheel-drive car to plow ahead when the driver wants to turn, a trait known as understeer, it will thrill owners who race their cars on weekends.
The torque transfer system, which comes only on the top-line SH, is just the latest of several technical innovations that Honda has tried first in Preludes. In 1983, there was the double wishbone; in '88, anti-lock brakes, and in '92, the highly efficient VTEC engine, which offers spirited response, remarkable fuel economy and a throaty growl. Another Prelude first, four-wheel steering in '88, was discarded because its cost and complexity outweighed its slight benefit.
Another new-for-'97 feature is a four-speed automatic transmission that can be shifted manually, like those offered by Porsche, Chrysler and the Prelude's stepbrother, the Acura NSX sports car. But unlike the NSX's Formula One-style fingertip controls, the Prelude's Sequential Sport Shift has a shifter in the console that moves in an "H" pattern. By pulling the lever to the left, you can push or pull it to shift to higher or lower gears, no clutch required.
The trick transmission is available only on the base car (all SH's are manuals) and I'd be inclined to pass on it. The Prelude's precise five-speed stick is too much fun.
And if you don't like to have fun at the wheel, this fifth-generation Prelude is not for you. As the sporty coupe market has gone into a free fall in the last decade, people who bought them only for the image have moved on, often to sport utility vehicles. Honda figures that mostly die-hard enthusiasts, a lot of them a few years either side of 30, are left in the market, and it has tailored the new car to them. The responsive VTEC is the only engine, and at 195 horsepower it is more powerful than before but still not very thirsty.
Driven back to back with the '96 model on the test course, the '97 is noticeably more rigid, the suspension is stiffer and the steering is quicker. But poseurs may find the ride too harsh and the styling too minimalist.
In a sense, the Prelude has gone back to its roots after straying in 1992-96 to a flashy design with an anachronistic instrument panel that swept from door to door. The simple new dash is classic Honda, with big gauges and excellent controls.
Over all, the styling is conservative and understated, except for oversized headlights stacked under a plastic cover. First with the '96 Civic and now with the Prelude, Honda seems to have decided that big, oddly shaped headlamps can be a styling theme.
From the rear, there is an obvious resemblance to the third-generation Preludes of 1988-91. And the no-nonsense interior is spare, even Teutonic. (But, hey, if German interiors can become more Japanese, with cup holders and loose-fitting leather, why can't the Japanese go the other way?)
There is more space for cargo and passengers, and the cabin, while cozy, is not claustrophobic, thanks to big windows and a dashboard that angles down from the windshield. A two-part storage box under the center armrest has a shallow tray, and below that, a deep bin. A new security system disables the car unless the proper key transmits the proper digital signal.
The base Prelude ($23,595 including delivery) is nicely equipped, with power windows, locks, mirrors and sunroof; cruise control; air-conditioning, and a CD player. And even without torque transfer, you get the feeling that if you tried to macarena, it would follow every move. Along with the torque system, the Type SH ($26,095) gets different wheels and a rear spoiler.
The front seats are firm, with an adjustable bottom cushion and side bolsters that hug you tight on turns. The upholstery is understated fabric, and fashion victims take note: Honda will not give you slippery cow skins even if you're willing to pay extra. This is not a car for Ricardo Montalban.
The Prelude is not quite perfect, but it has few glaring faults. The horn is controlled by buttons (big ones, to be sure) on the steering-wheel hub, rather than by the hub itself; you expect Honda to do better. The latch protrudes menacingly from the open trunk lid. The back seat, though ostensibly bigger, is still punishing. Road noise intrudes.
But this remains one of the few models that have plenty of legroom for tall drivers. From the feel of the seats to the positions of the wheel, the pedals and the shifter, this car feels as if it were made just for me.
Indeed, I've owned three Preludes, and still have an '85. It is rarely driven these days, but it still feels as solid, with an engine that purrs as smoothly, as some new cars I've driven lately. And its 100,000-plus miles have been virtually trouble-free.
Would I make the hard-charging new car Prelude No. 4? Probably not, though I like it. My needs have changed, as have those of many other sporty-coupe alumni, and I've come to value the all-wheel-drive security of a sport utility that makes regular runs into the mountains. And truth be told, as nice as the new Type SH is, it doesn't look like $26,000 to me.
But for the younger and more restless, and those who aspire to the Acura NSX but can't write the check for $87,000, that may be a small price for some richly rewarding turns at the wheel.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A Formula One appetizer for a party of four.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A table with the Behind the Wheel column in the Automobiles section last Sunday misstated the type of engine in the Volkswagen GTI VR6. It is a V6, not an in-line 4.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The '97 Prelude has oversized headlamps, but from the rear it recalls Preludes of the late 80's. The Type SH, left, has a rear spoiler that the base model, above, lacks. (American Honda Motor Company)
 
Table: "Sporty Survivors: Four Hard-Charging Small Cars" compares the features and prices of the Honda Prelude, Mitsubishi Eclipse GSX, Toyota Celica GT, and the Volkswagen GTI VRG.
 
Graphs: "A Shrinking Market" show sales of small sporty coupes and Honda Prelude, 1990-1996. (Source: Honda)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); MAMMALS (69%); BOATING & RAFTING (67%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: COBB, JAMES G RALPH NADER (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



398 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Earning Power;
Global Forces Batter Politics

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT much of the world today, politics lags behind economics, like a horse and buggy haplessly trailing a sports car. While politicians go through the motions of national elections -- offering chimerical programs and slogans -- world markets, the Internet and the furious pace of trade involve people in a global game in which elected representatives figure as little more than bit players. Hence the prevailing sense, in America and Europe, that politicians and ideologies are either uninteresting or irrelevant.
Bill Clinton has understood this better than most. His political style, stressing flexible management over firm policy, adapts itself to the economic winds and technological advances that are changing the way people communicate and think faster than any political doctrine ever could. If you can't fight globalization, he intimates, you may as well join it. Elsewhere, though -- especially here in France, where there has always been a conviction that political planning should prevail over the whims of the market -- the powerlessness of politicians has contributed to a profound malaise.
 
 
 
Dissatisfaction
 
 "Throughout Europe, to a greater or lesser extent, we have rampant dissatisfaction because politicians are elected on promises they can't deliver because the market is global," said Jonathan Eyal, director of studies at the United Services Institute, a London think tank.
In France, unemployment has soared to 12.5 percent, the highest rate in Europe, and the Government can do little to help because it is bound by strict spending curbs mandated by European economic integration -- itself partly a response to the competitive demands of the global marketplace.
 
 
 
Menacing Ghoul
 The uncontrollable forces of the global village, with their daily mockery of domestic political agendas, have coalesced, for the French, into a menacing ghoul, loosely made up of the American architects of cyberspace, Wall Street currency traders and German central bankers. The new catch-phrase is "L'horreur economique," and the economic horror in question is not some Zola-esque child-labor network but the array of supranational forces that have abruptly given the French the discomfiting sense that they no longer control their destiny.
In America, however, Mr. Clinton has successfully preached that free trade offers immense opportunities to American industries willing to compete in a Disney-like "small, small world" of English-speaking, Big Mac-chomping computer nerds. With no cold war to fight, American diplomats have been widely recast as international salesmen.
Mr. Clinton was re-elected partly because this campaign has worked. The diatribes of Patrick J. Buchanan and Ross Perot against the North American Free Trade Agreement had a limited impact on a nation where the global economy has proved more boon than burden. Even American fears about competing with Japan now seem remote.
Still, even in Mr. Clinton's America, the changes wrought by globalization can be troubling. Corporate downsizing, undertaken to insure international competitiveness, has hurt many Americans. Other effects are less evident. They involve politics catching up with economics.
As imports have more than doubled over the past two decades, and the American economy has become increasingly international, foreign companies have come to have a much bigger stake in the American political system. That truth has an abstract air about it until it is embodied in the person of somebody like John Huang.
 
 
 
Blurring the Line
 Just what Mr. Huang was up to, and whether it was illegal, remains unclear. But the activities of this Indonesian-American Democratic Party fund-raiser -- including his coaxing of a $250,000 contribution from a South Korean conglomerate -- have raised questions about whether American foreign policy in Indonesia, and Southeast Asia generally, was in any sense for sale. Mr. Clinton last week for the first time acknowledged having met with Mr. Huang and James Riady, the Indonesian billionaire for whom Mr. Huang once worked, but the President denied that they had influenced policy decisions. Still, their entree to the White House -- with roots in Mr. Clinton's days back in Arkansas -- appears to blur the line between national politics and global commerce.
This trend may be inevitable, for if the economy is global, politics can hardly ignore the fact. The difference between America and Europe appears to lie in how threatening the changes wrought by the global marketplace are perceived to be. Mr. Huang may have transgressed, but his actions suggest that the constituents of the American President are now global. His comings and goings raise ethical questions, but they affirm rather than impugn America's power.
Conversely, in a France entirely lacking America's current confidence, a psychosis over lost sovereignty is growing. Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Perot strike a chord with some Americans, but in the end they remain marginal. Bob Dole's complaints about the surrender of American power to the United Nations go largely unheeded. (Look at Mr. Clinton's commitment of thousands of American troops to a United Nations force in Africa last week.) But in France, the xenophobic National Front of Jean-Marie Le Pen has advanced implacably, winning control of big French cities like Toulon and Orange.
The specters Mr. Le Pen is able to exploit are manifold. France, like other nations of the European Union, faces an imminent surrender of much of its sovereignty. A European currency, the "euro," is to be introduced in just over two years, and control of the fiscal policies that back it will reside essentially with a European Central Bank.
The ability of national politicians to set economic policy will thus be severely curtailed. While in the United States the Federal Reserve's power is balanced by a powerful federal government, there will be no European government acting as a counterweight to a European Central Bank in which Germany's influence is almost certain to be dominant.
 
 
 
Surrendered Sovereignty
 Mr. Eyal said this development would exacerbate Europe's disenchantment with politicians who are powerless to deliver. "We are going to have unelected bureaucrats, distant from any public accountability, running a bank board that will essentially set everything in economic terms in Europe. The results could be explosive."
As Gary Burgless of the Brookings Institution pointed out, France and Germany are now operating like California and New York State, but without a federal government in Washington to redistribute resources between them and without the labor mobility of the United States. "If there was 12.5 percent unemployment in New York," as there is now in France, he said, "you'd have money pouring in and people pouring out. But that doesn't happen in Europe."
Of course, the euro has been advanced by France and Germany in part to counter the perceived American domination of the global economy. But this long-term aim -- a strong European currency for a more united Europe less dependent on the United States -- may not produce fruits quickly enough to head off the seething discontent that the likes of Mr. Le Pen are exploiting.
The mood in France has been captured recently by anger at the proposed sale of the state-owned Thomson Multimedia consumer electronics company to Daewoo of South Korea. Veiled racism appears to lurk behind dark tales of the ruthless methods of Daewoo and laments about the sale of a French "national jewel" to an Asian competitor. With rumors circulating that layoffs are at hand, the National Front has been furiously distributing leaflets at Thomson plants.
It is notable that no such outburst has accompanied British Telecom's proposed purchase of MCI, the American long-distance phone company. Americans are simply better disposed toward a global market whose benefits they now sense. In fact, a substantial part of Thomson's vaunted technology in digital television and satellite systems is developed at plants in the United States, acquired when Thomson bought RCA in the 1980's. James Harper, a spokesman at these plants in Indiana, said, "There has been no hue and cry over the Koreans running things rather than the French."
 
 
 
Contrasting Reactions
 The differing reactions to Daewoo at Thomson in France and in the United States reveal two things. The first is that America's more open, more flexible society copes more easily with the rapid flux of an increasingly frontierless world. The second is that globalization, however it is caricatured, is not merely Americanization. Thomson has major interests in the United States. Many Japanese cars are largely American-made. American sneakers are made in Asia. CNN has instant worldwide recognition, but so, too, do BMW and Chanel.
Still, the rapid, American-led change of civilization headed by the likes of Microsoft and Intel is bound to produce a political reaction. Their technology destroys borders, sweeping them away like quaint vestiges of an old world. Not everyone likes this. For every Riady courting American favor, there is someone courting resistance to America and globalization. Benjamin R. Barber of Rutgers University has called this global conflict "Jihad versus McWorld."
In France, the anxieties over the global theme park exploited by Mr. Le Pen are more widespread than his movement. Similarly, in Asia, the forces of Japanese and Chinese nationalism are stirring. To use Benedict Arnold's phrase, the "imagined communities" gathered behind national flags will not be abandoned without a fight.
Mr. Le Pen now says, "We are for a revolution, but a French one" -- that is, a revolution, but for people of French blood, whoever they may be. The French revolution of 1789 had a different theme: the forging of a nation of citizens, irrespective of ethnicity, whose rights gave them a stake in the country. Therein lay its universal appeal. Today, however, universal ideas appear overwhelmingly American, and the French, among others, are groping for a response.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the political effects of global economic forces referred incorrectly to the originator of the idea of "imagined communities," referring to the conceptions people have of nationhood. He is Benedict Anderson, professor of government at Cornell University; the mention of Benedict Arnold was inadvertent.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Randy Jones)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED SERVICES GROUP NV (55%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CHILD LABOR (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996



399 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 17; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
The Magical Touch Of Marcel Carne

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby

 BODY:
MARCEL CARNE'S FATE was melancholy indeed: he outlived his productive career by 45 years, and new ways of looking at movies diminished the reputation of some of his best work even before it could become decently dated. Yet Carne, who was 90 when he died in a Paris suburb on Oct. 31, was the man who made "Les Enfants du Paradis" (1945), widely regarded as a masterpiece and the most critically acclaimed, most popular French film of all time.
"Les Enfants du Paradis" ("The Children of Paradise") was also one of those European films that after World War II first turned many Americans on to the possibility that there was an entirely different kind of life to be found in movies made outside of Hollywood. 
 For me, it was love at first sight in 1947. Without warning, I was swept into its tumultuous series of interlocking tales set in the Paris theater world of the early 19th century, never to be quite the same again. Watching it was to have an out-of-body experience long before such phenomena had been identified.
The film seemed to possess a mysterious but leisurely vitality, an almost tactile black-and-white beauty and a robust frankness about sex that were at a far remove from anything that Louis B. Mayer would have approved. The fact that one spent as much time reading the movie as simply looking at it might also have added to its cerebral cachet. MGM films didn't need subtitles: if you knew how to keep your eyes open, you were home free.
My reaction on seeing "Les Enfants du Paradis" a couple of decades later was quite different: mostly surprise that I had originally been taken in by its ornate melodrama, its talk of fate and moonlight's magic and other kinds of romantic nonsense that were then being lumped together as poetic realism.
Thus I was unprepared when, looking at it once more a few days ago, I was suddenly astonished all over again by its abundant, teeming images, the richness of its unabashedly literary (if sometimes overripe) dialogue and its now quaint but grandly operatic fatalism. Movies, unlike old friends, don't change with time; instead, knowing the worst, we change with time to accommodate movies as we would old friends.
Carne lived long and was still trying to make a film four years ago, a project that was abandoned only when he became ill 10 days into the shooting. It's just as well that fate stepped in. His best films were made in the brief 10-year period that reached its peak with the production of "Les Enfants du Paradis" in 1944-45. All but one of these early films ("Hotel du Nord") were written by Jacques Prevert, known and respected as a poet as well as a screenwriter. Carne and Prevert completed their last film together in 1946, "Les Portes de la Nuit" ("The Gates of Night"), a failure, some said, because it had been prepared for Jean Gabin and Marlene Dietrich and, instead, was made with Yves Montand, then new to movies, and Nathalie Nattier.
It seems equally probable that, even then, time was overtaking Carne. Just how out of touch he was to become can be seen in "Les Tricheurs" (1958), released here in 1961 as "The Cheaters": a tale about heedless, overprivileged French youth, couched in the superior, moralistic terms that helped to make Carne's name a joke among members of the New Wave.
THERE WERE THOSE WHO attributed his postwar decline to his dependency on Prevert. Yet Prevert, with the exception of his screenplay for Jean Renoir's "Crime de M. Lange" ("The Crime of Monsieur Lange") (1935), never had the success with other directors that he attained with Carne. The work of both men was rooted in the pre-war France that produced the left-wing, socially conscious Popular Front, when the fashion was to romanticize the despair of proles trapped in a world they did not understand and could not fight.
Witness "Quai des Brumes" ("Port of Shadows") (1938), in which Jean Gabin, as an Army deserter, is forced to commit murder to save the honor of the beautiful, very young Michele Morgan, and is shot down for his efforts in a rain-splattered street. The same formula is used in "Le Jour se Leve" ("Daybreak") (1939), in which a good-hearted, inarticulate factory worker (the iconographic Gabin again) gives up his life so that the naive young woman he loves can be free of her aging seducer.
Carne and Prevert don't blame political or economic systems. Instead, there's much talk about destiny and fate accompanied by a total lack of irony, which, in these circumstances, might pass for humor. Carne and Prevert were committed to messages about man's unholy condition, which resulted in films that are perfectly planned, elegant looking but never for a minute spontaneous.
"Le Jour se Leve" opened in June 1939, but the French military censor found it to be so demoralizing that it was banned when the war started in September. "Quai des Brumes" and "Le Jour se Leve," each designed by the great Alexandre Trauner, who did most of Carne's films, are drenched in the atmosphere of romantic despair: rain, fog, gritty streets, cheap hotels and smoky bistros. They are living testimonials to the technical expertise of the prewar French studios where they were filmed.
Noteworthy, too, is "Les Visiteurs du Soir" ("The Devil's Envoys"), made in 1942 during the occupation. Set in medieval France, it's about two doomed former lovers (Arletty and Alain Cuny) sent to earth by the Devil (Jules Berry) to disrupt a nobleman's wedding and buy a few souls. This is Cocteau territory, but without Cocteau's genius for fantasy. Instead, it has the flawless symmetrical beauty of Arletty to bewitch the beholder, as well as much solemn talk about fate, destiny and the redemptive power of love. James Agee was not far off the mark when he described it as " 'Aucassin and Nicolette' translated into Middle High Marshmallow." After the war, Carne defended it as an allegory about a France ruled by Hitler.
The same sort of message was trotted out to explain the production of "Les Enfants du Paradis," though the finished work is the only explanation needed. Whether or not it is an authentic masterpiece, "Les Enfants du Paradis" is a gorgeous evocation of a particular time and place. It is also superbly performed by its stars: Arletty, Jean-Louis Barrault, Pierre Brasseur and the often overlooked Marcel Herrand, who plays Lacenaire. Based on the real-life French murderer and fringe literary figure, Lacenaire is as seriously eccentric as the Marquis de Sade and as uncompromising as Jean Genet. He is also the most authentically modern character in all of the Carne-Prevert collaborations.
Most important, "Les Enfants du Paradis" is a celebration of the kind of traditional, literary, high-quality French film making that was soon to be all but demolished by Francois Truffaut and the other Young Turks of the French New Wave.
In 1954, five years before he made his own first feature, Truffaut wrote the brazenly insulting manifesto in Cahiers du Cinema attacking "la tradition de la qualite." His targets were Jean Delannoy, Claude Autant-Lara, Rene Clement and Carne, directors who seldom were responsible for their own screenplays but devoted themselves to illustrating the work of literary writers. Truffaut accused the writers of being "contemptuous of the cinema by underestimating it." It was time, he said, for film makers to move out of the studios into the streets, to write their own screenplays, to establish eye contact with their characters and not to look down on them as if from some privileged, detached position far above.
Carne was not destroyed by the attacks of the New Wave critics -- time and his own particular limitations did that. Yet he was grievously hurt in the crossfire and nursed his wounds for the rest of his life. Truffaut, possibly aware of the damage he had caused, later made a courtly gesture, not of reconciliation but of appreciation. In his introduction to "The Films of My Life" (1973), he recalls having first seen Carne's "Visiteurs du Soir" twice on the same day when he was 10 years old. He writes that he liked it a lot the first time he sat through it. The second time: "I realized how fascinating it can be to probe deeper and deeper into a work one admires, that the exercise can go so far as to create the illusion of reliving the creation."
Every generation of film makers builds on the work of the generations that precede it. Eventually, the in-fighting is forgotten, but the films remain. They accumulate. In a video store on Manhattan's Upper West Side, "Les Enfants du Paradis" rests just a couple of cassettes down the shelf from "L'Enfant Sauvage."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Nov. 17 about the film "The Children of Paradise," with an article about the French director Marcel Carne, misidentified the actress shown with Jean-Louis Barrault. She was Maria Casares, not Arletty.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arletty, left, and Jean-Louis Barrault in "Les Enfants du Paradis," directed by Marcel Carne, who died last month--The most popular French film ever. (Photofest) (pg. 17); Jean Gabin and Arletty in Carne's 1939 film "Le Jour se Leve." (Photofest); Marcel Carne--A victim of time. (Photofest) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FILM (90%); WORLD WAR II (71%); LITERATURE (69%); 

PERSON: MARCEL ALBERT CARNE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997



400 of 612 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Columbia's Tuition

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The news that Columbia University has streamlined the process for obtaining private student loans (news article, Nov. 14) is a mixed blessing. I paid my Columbia loans, but current students will have to assume greater debt, repaid often over longer periods. Since my enrollment at Columbia 12 years ago, the cost of tuition there has doubled. Instead of easing students into deeper debt, Columbia's administration should examine its own costs, especially when its tuition increases have outpaced the rate of inflation.
 
CHRISTOPHER BROWNE
Providence, R.I., Nov. 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (99%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; CREDIT TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); INFLATION (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

 
