

1 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM KIEV; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Stalled by Conflict, Ukraine's Democracy Gasps for Air

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, May 31 

 BODY:
Two and a half years ago, the ''Orange Revolution'' promised Ukrainians a freer, more democratic system of government. Instead, the country now finds itself mired in perpetual political crisis, punctuated by confusion, chaos and, at times, comedy.
 In April, President Viktor A. Yushchenko issued a disputed decree dissolving Parliament. That led to charges, countercharges and dueling protests between the country's warring camps, led by Mr. Yushchenko on one side and the prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, on the other. 
On Wednesday, for example, protesters gathered outside the headquarters of the prosecutor general, a member of Mr. Yanukovich's party whom the president had already fired two times. Drawn by rumors of an imminent assault by government commandos, they blockaded the leafy streets while their leaders issued instructions on how to resist and warned of nefarious NATO plans to subjugate the nation.
 ''We don't want to be imprisoned by America, like Yugoslavia was,'' one protester said.
 Inside, a dozen members of Parliament occupied a landing by the elevator, vowing to protect the prosecutor general, Svyatoslav M. Piskun. ''Give me the Constitution,'' one deputy demanded, and then thumbed through the one produced in search of some legal justification for all of this.
 Mr. Piskun, who has accused Mr. Yushchenko of criminal conduct for exceeding his constitutional powers, has refused to step down. The president, in an interview, accused him in turn of politicizing the justice system. He had already appointed somebody else to the post, only to have his decree, like most of late, ignored.
 The country's leaders agreed early last Sunday morning to end a prolonged political impasse by holding new parliamentary elections, the second in less than two years. But that agreement, which appeared to be unraveling on Thursday, has done little to resolve the underlying disputes.
 They include an unclear division of power between a weakened presidency and an empowered Parliament; allegations of corruption in Parliament and the courts; and a lack of mature democratic institutions able to emerge from the shadows of the oversize political personalities who dominate Ukrainian politics.
 The result has been not only endless conflict, but also public apathy, tinged with disappointment, which even the country's leaders acknowledge having caused.
 ''We started a kind of judicial game, using the flaws of our laws,'' Mr. Piskun said in his barricaded building, referring to legal challenges that have been swirling around him. ''We make people lose trust in the judicial system.''
 Ukraine is immeasurably freer than it was in 2004, when President Leonid D. Kuchma tried to orchestrate the fraudulent election of a successor, Mr. Yanukovich, setting off protests that led to a new election, won by Mr. Yushchenko. One measure of that is that Mr. Yanukovich's Party of Regions won enough seats last year in parliamentary elections to make him prime minister. Ukraine, though, has failed to consolidate its democracy, even as it has embraced the theatrics of democratic politics.
 Protests abound, though often with paid protesters, as do the tents that in 2004 filled Independence Square, known as the Maidan. So, ominously, do political threats and brinkmanship.
 Those activities nearly resulted in violence when Interior Ministry troops, following orders from the interior minister, a Yanukovich loyalist, occupied Mr. Piskun's office after the president tried to dismiss him. Mr. Yushchenko then declared the ministry's military forces under his command, and the top uniformed commander declared his loyalty to the president.
 The interior minister, Vasyl P. Tsushko, was hospitalized Wednesday, reportedly with a heart ailment. On Thursday, a member of his Socialist Party declared that the minister had been poisoned by his opponents, implicitly Mr. Yushchenko's supporters.
 Poison is a motif of Ukrainian politics, the most notable case being Mr. Yushchenko's poisoning before the 2004 vote. That crime remains unsolved, an emblem of Ukraine's uncertain embrace of the rule of law. The twist is that Mr. Yushchenko is now accused of abusing the law. 
 That stems from his decision -- with the parliamentary majority led by Mr. Yanukovich growing and members of his own party defecting -- to issue a decree dissolving Parliament in April on narrow grounds that members were switching parties, which he called ''an issue of political corruption.'' His opponents assailed the move as unconstitutional, but when they took the matter to the Constitutional Court, Mr. Yushchenko dismissed 3 of the court's 18 judges, accusing them of corruption.
 The Constitutional Court, Mr. Piskun retorted indignantly, is ''the backbone of democracy.'' He acknowledged that there might have been justification for Mr. Yushchenko's charges, but he said there was a judicial and parliamentary process for resolving them.
 Mr. Yushchenko defended his actions, though he appeared subdued, even resigned. ''I would like to emphasize this is not a political crisis,'' he said of the turmoil surrounding the prosecutor's office. ''It is just a reality of political life in Ukraine.''
 Ukraine remains a deeply divided country, with a large Russian-speaking population that has bristled at Mr. Yushchenko's embrace of the European Union and NATO at the expense, as widely seen, of fraternal ties with Russia.
 Increasingly, though, the divisions appear less substantive and more political and personal.
 Kostyantyn Gryshchenko, a former foreign minister and an adviser to Mr. Yanukovich, said that the Yanukovich camp was equally committed to integrating Ukraine into the global economy and, eventually, into the European Union, though NATO remains unpopular. Instead, he said, elections increasingly turn on personalities. 
 ''People here vote most likely for the leader whom they like,'' he said in an interview. ''I would hesitate to say trust, but like is the right word.''
 Others said that Ukrainian politics had simply become a struggle over access to business. ''Having power gives you the instruments to do business,'' said Oleksandr O. Moroz, who became speaker of Parliament after breaking with Mr. Yushchenko's camp last summer. ''They are fighting for power to obtain these instruments.''
 The biggest concern in Ukraine is that elections are unlikely to significantly change the makeup of Parliament. They could simply prolong the failures to bolster the institutions necessary to allow democracy to flourish, including prosecutors and courts independent of presidential decrees and street protests.
 Without institutional changes, said Anatoly K. Kinakh, who became minister of the economy after defecting from Mr. Yushchenko's camp this year, ''this election will not produce any better quality of democracy.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Svyatoslav M. Piskun, the prosecutor general, says the president has exceeded his authority.
 In a show of support, Ukrainian lawmakers guarded the office of the prosecutor general after the president fired him. (Photographs by Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); MISCONDUCT (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



2 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: First-Quarter Revision Shows Economy at Slowest Pace Since Late 2002

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The economy stalled this winter. 
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that it had revised the broadest indicator of economic strength, measuring all goods and services produced in the United States, to show a 0.6 percent advance -- less than half the 1.3 percent reported in its first estimate last month.
The major culprits were the trade deficit, which swelled even more than first estimated, and slower business production. Those problems added to the strain on the economy from the weak housing market and held down growth to the slowest pace recorded since the end of 2002. 
 But most economists agree that the economy probably bottomed out in the first three months of the year and they have forecast a rebound as some of the economic forces that subtracted from growth in the first quarter reverse.
 Trade is one of those forces. While the revised gross domestic product figures showed that imports rose faster than first estimated, slower consumer spending should soon damp the influx of foreign goods, economists said. At the same time, demand for American goods and services in Asia and Europe is growing -- and getting an added boost because of a weaker dollar.
 ''We know that the world economy is growing,'' said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics. ''It doesn't seem realistic that our exports will be dead in the water. And in the context of an even cheaper dollar, they're even more competitive now.''
 Business production is poised to pick back up not only as foreign countries buy more and more American goods and services but also as American businesses start replenishing their inventory stockpiles. Inventories declined in value by $4.5 billion in the first quarter after growing by $43.2 billion last year. (The government first estimated that inventories increased by $14.8 billion.) The paring of inventories took nearly a percentage point off growth in the first quarter, but economists expect that will reverse.
 ''Now it will actually be adding to the economy because we'll probably start seeing some modest rebuilding in inventories,'' said Lynn Reaser, an economist with Bank of America. ''Over all, it looks like the first quarter will turn out to be the low point in this cycle, and we'll pull out of this soft patch we've been going through.''
 How much the economy will rebound depends largely on what happens to consumer spending. While the new Commerce Department report showed that consumers actually spent at a faster clip than first measured -- a 4.4 percent increase instead of the 3.8 percent reported in April -- many economists do not expect that to hold up.
 For all the figures that were revised in the G.D.P. report, one major economic indicator stayed the same. The Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, a calculation of prices excluding food and energy, rose 2.2 percent -- a few notches above what central bankers consider acceptable.
 Recently, wage increases have not been keeping pace with inflation. At the same time, gas prices have been climbing and the housing market slump in much of the country is sapping homeowner equity. A result, economists say, is that consumers have been less free to spend their shrinking disposable income.
 And if businesses start slowing their hiring, as many economists have predicted, the economy will not have the job market to help prop it up. 
 ''Job and income growth is going to slow,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist with Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm in Austin, Tex. ''For consumers to spend even close to what they were spending in the first quarter, that would mean they'd have to substitute mortgage equity debt for credit card debt, and I don't see that happening.''
 A new Labor Department report released yesterday showed that for now, the job market appears to be holding firm. The four-week moving average of Americans filing state unemployment claims for the first time fell to 304,500, the lowest level in more than a year. Initial jobless claims dropped by 4,000, to 310,000, in the week that ended May 26. And today, the Labor Department will report job growth and unemployment statistics for May. 
 While there is doubt about the strength of the job market, there is no question that the housing market remains in the doldrums. A separate report from the Commerce Department yesterday said that construction spending rose 0.1 percent in April after a 0.6 percent gain in March. At the same time, spending on residential construction fell again. In the G.D.P. report, however, the housing market looked a little better. It subtracted a little less from growth than first calculated -- 0.87 percentage point from overall G.D.P. growth instead of the initial estimate of 0.98 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Real Economic Growth'' Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. 1st Qtr. revised To: +0.6% From: +1.3 (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INFLATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



3 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: China Says 2 of Its Companies Played a Role in Poisonings

BYLINE: By JAKE HOOKER and WALT BOGDANICH; Jake Hooker reported from Beijing, and Walt Bogdanich from New York. Renwick McLean contributed reporting from New York, and R. M. Koster from Panama.

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 31 

 BODY:
Chinese regulators acknowledged for the first time Thursday that two Chinese companies had ''engaged in some misconduct'' in the way they labeled and sold a poisonous ingredient that ended up in cold medicine, killing at least 100 people in Panama last year.
 But the regulators said primary responsibility for the deaths rested with traders in Spain and Panama who knew the product was not suitable for use in medicine but sold it for that purpose anyway. Both trading companies dispute that charge. 
Chinese companies sold the ingredient as 99.5 percent pure glycerin, even though it contained about 24 percent diethylene glycol, a poison commonly used in antifreeze, according to the United States Food and Drug Administration. 
 Chinese authorities also said that Chinese-made toothpaste containing small amounts of diethylene glycol was safe, and that its manufacturer had broken no laws. But officials also said that new controls would be put on the use of the chemical in toothpaste, and that toothpaste sold for export would be tested.
 Tens of thousands of tubes of tainted Chinese-made toothpaste were recently seized in Panama and at least three other Latin American countries. The F.D.A. is now testing samples of all toothpaste imported into the United States from China.
 The Chinese government's findings reflect its growing concern over the perception that the country's safety regulations may not have kept up with its booming export economy.
 American officials recently accused two Chinese companies of intentionally shipping pet food ingredients contaminated with an industrial chemical, melamine, to the United States, leading to one of the largest pet food recalls in history. After initial denials, Beijing officials banned the use of melamine and have promised to improve food safety regulations and export controls.
 Chinese authorities reopened an investigation of the Panama poisonings in response to a report last month by The New York Times that traced 46 barrels of the mislabeled poison from the Panama port city of Colon through Barcelona, Spain, to a Beijing trading company and finally to its origin at the Taixing Glycerine Factory in the Yangtze Delta.
 Wei Chuanzhong, the head of investigation and deputy director of the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, acknowledged that the factory had labeled the barrels as glycerin even though they contained significant amounts of diethylene glycol. An official confirmed that they had passed through Chinese customs as glycerin.
 But Mr. Wei said the manufacturer and its exporter, CNSC Fortune Way in Beijing, had sold the barrels as ''TD'' glycerin -- or substitute glycerin -- for industrial, not medical, use. He further charged that a Panamanian import company, the Medicom Business Group, had altered the paperwork, describing the substance as pharmaceutical grade.
 Mr. Wei did not explain why the Chinese companies had exported barrels with a false certificate of analysis, listing their content as 99.5 percent glycerin. Both companies remain under investigation, according to Chinese authorities. 
 The F.D.A. said China's explanation sidestepped a critical fact: the deception had begun with the false certificate of analysis. ''If the drums had been 99.5 percent glycerin, the deaths in Panama would never have occurred,'' the agency said. 
 Ascension Criado, manager of the Spanish trading company Rasfer International, said China was wrong to blame her company. ''We ordered glycerin and they sent us something else,'' she said.
 Valentin Jaen, a lawyer for Medicom, the Panamanian importer, said, ''The Chinese state has no reason or justification to blame Medicom for anything.''
 On Thursday, Nicaragua announced the seizure of more than 40,000 tubes of Chinese-made toothpaste suspected of contamination and that as many as 80,000 tubes of the Excel and Mr. Cool brands might still be on the local market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POISONINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (88%); MISCONDUCT (78%); FOOD MISLABELING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); FOOD SAFETY (74%); PET FOODS (74%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PRODUCT RECALLS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); FOOD RECALLS (69%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (72%) CHINA (96%); PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



4 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Who Likes the Immigration Bill?; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Be Our Guests

BYLINE: By Dani Rodrik. 
Dani Rodrik, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, is the author of the forthcoming ''One Economics, Many Recipes.''

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
COMPANIES today purchase materials from the four corners of the world, consumers buy goods at a global supermarket and financiers can place bets on virtually any currency. But if you are a worker from a poor nation who wants to put on the global market the only asset you have -- your manpower -- good luck! What you encounter is a system of restrictions and regulations reminiscent of the Soviet Union. 
 The guest worker program included in the Senate immigration bill is an important step toward redressing this most inequitable feature of globalization. Critics of the program have focused on how it might hurt American wages and on the difficulty in establishing and enforcing it. But these legitimate concerns have to be considered alongside the huge benefits that a well-managed temporary work visa scheme would generate.
Each foreign worker in this country earns a multiple of what he would make in his home country -- an extra $17,500 per year for the average Mexican worker in the United States, according to unpublished estimates by a Yale economist, Mark Rosenzweig.
 Multiply this by 200,000 guest workers per year, and by the end of a decade, an income gain of $35 billion per year would be generated for workers from poor nations.
 This exceeds the $23 billion the federal government spent on foreign aid last year. It is also larger than the benefits -- amounting at most to $30 billion per year -- that poor nations are projected to reap from the current round of multilateral trade negotiations. And unlike foreign aid and trade agreements, the benefits in this case go directly to working people.
 To help poor nations the most, the program must ensure that guest workers return to their home countries. Employers will need to accept greater scrutiny and reporting requirements. Workers must have a portion of their earnings deposited in escrow accounts, which would be forfeited if they overstay their visas. The absence of appropriate incentives has turned other ''guest'' worker programs -- Germany's being the best-known example -- into permanent-resident programs.
 We could extend the incentives to the home governments of the guest workers. Countries could be told that their quotas in the guest worker program in future years would be reduced in proportion to the number of their citizens who fail to come back. This would induce these governments to experiment with tax breaks and other policies that encourage workers to return.
 Whatever the practical difficulties, the potential gains are too large for us not to try. A guest worker program is the most effective contribution we can make to improving the lives of the world's working poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



5 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: What Seller Wants A Low Price?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Can you imagine an auction house bragging to sellers about the low prices at its auctions? Perhaps this would be the pitch:
 ''Sell your Picasso at Fred's Auction House. You'll get less from Fred.''
That won't happen, of course. In normal auctions, sellers try to get the most they can, and buyers seek to pay as little as possible. The result is a market price. 
 But the Securities and Exchange Commission is now considering whether a fundamentally different kind of auction -- with a pitch not too far from the one above -- will be allowed to set values on company income statements.
 At stake could be the future of stock options as a principal part of the compensation packages at many companies.
 In May, Zions Bancorporation, a Utah bank, auctioned off securities intended to replicate the performance of the employee stock options it issued at the same time. In effect, the company would have issued more options to the investors.
 Evan M. Hill, a Zions vice president, told me this week that he expected the S.E.C. to decide in June whether Zions can use the auction prices to value the real options it issued, or whether the company must use the values it got from an options pricing model.
 Conrad Hewitt, the S.E.C.'s chief accountant, said the commission had not yet received all the needed information from Zions, but would not comment further.
 The Zions auction valued the options as being worth much less than the models indicated. If the S.E.C. goes along, that would mean that Zions would report lower expenses from options it issues. Zions hopes to build a profitable business from organizing auctions of similar securities for other companies.
 Why, you might ask, would anyone want to auction something in a way that is expected to produce a low price? Wouldn't the seller prefer to receive a high price?
 The answer is no. The auctions for what Zions calls Esoars are likely to be small, raising little money for companies, and thus costing them little if they are underpriced. But the result would be that each company could report higher profits by reducing the reported expense from the far larger number of employee stock options that it issues.
 One expert on options pricing, Stephen A. Ross, the chief executive of Compensation Valuation Inc. and a professor of financial economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says that he thinks the commission should refuse to accept the Zions value, even though the design of the Esoars security is generally acceptable.
 A major problem, he said, is that the market for Esoars is likely to be illiquid, with a large spread between the price at which one could easily sell the security (the bid price) and the price at which it could easily be bought (the asked price). A true market price would be between those two and, he thinks, close to what the models say it should be.
 Mr. Ross has an idea how that number could be discovered. ''The natural thing to do is not to issue more of these options,'' he said. ''It is to go into the market and buy some of them back.''
 If Zions did that, investors would be agreeing to pay Zions what the options ended up costing the company, and would be bidding just what price they would charge to take on that obligation. That would be the ''asked price'' for the security, just as the Zions auction produced a ''bid price.''
 If the Zions auction is accepted by the S.E.C., it will be hailed by some companies as proof that option pricing models produce values that are too high, and it will help them to minimize the values on their income statements. That, in turn, will encourage companies to issue more options rather than use other forms of compensation, such as cash or restricted stock. 
 There is another way to get companies to search for fair values, even if they are high, and it will be the subject of a hearing before a Senate subcommittee headed by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, on Tuesday. 
 That would be to give companies a tax deduction for their expense when they issue options. Under current law, the company gets a deduction later, when employees exercise the options. That deduction may be far larger, or much smaller, than the expense the company reports to investors.
 If the valuation that companies put on options affected both reported profits and taxes, the companies would have offsetting incentives.
 As it is now, argued Jeff Mahoney, the general counsel of the Council of Institutional Investors, which is asking the S.E.C. not to approve the Zions auction as a way of setting valuation (and which retained Mr. Ross to evaluate it), ''Zions wants the low price as much as the bidders do.''
 ''How,'' he asked, ''can this produce a market price? It just can't.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: ZIONS BANCORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: ZION (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



6 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2109 words

HEADLINE: In Cajun Country, A Fight To the Finish

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PERLSTEIN

 BODY:
THE two fighters cradle their birds on either side of the dirt pit. The roosters peck sharply at the air, their instincts revved for combat. But before the referee starts the first match of the night, he grabs a microphone and addresses the 200 or so spectators. 
 ''If there are any law enforcement officers in the house tonight, please stand up and identify yourselves,'' asks the referee, who goes by the name Woodchopper.
When nobody stands, Woodchopper continues: ''I just say this so we can all relax and have a good time. You know there are three bills against us in the Legislature and it doesn't look good. All I know is they're trying to take away something that we all love.''
 The crowd cheers in agreement, then starts whooping and hollering in anticipation of another long night of cockfighting at the Atchafalaya Game Club, an arena-style pit housed in an old potato shed in Henderson, La. 
 The club, smack in the middle of Cajun country, is one of the biggest and busiest in the state, but Woodchopper's words carry the strain of a tradition that is in its twilight. 
 In an almost literal sense, cockfighting in the United States is facing the same fate as a rooster in the pit. The final death match is being waged in Louisiana, the only state that still allows this ancient blood sport. With several anti-cockfighting bills currently being debated by the State Legislature, the only question is whether the end will be swift or drawn-out. One bill calls for an immediate ban; the most lenient calls for a three-year phaseout. 
 One thing is certain: legal cockfighting in Louisiana is about to fade into history. The end could be played out in weeks or months, depending on the legislative outcome, but it is only a matter of time before this generations-old slice of rural Americana goes completely underground. 
 For the uninitiated, cockfighting usually comes across one of two ways: primal and exotic, or backwoods and revolting. There's rarely a middle ground. But if you're determined to catch the last gasp of this roughhewn subculture, be forewarned: dress down, brace for blood and save moral debates for outside the pit. 
 Even in this last surviving outpost, the activity has been on the ropes for several years, staving off extinction through the cagey maneuvering of farm-belt lawmakers. But when Louisiana became the last legal cockfighting refuge -- after Oklahoma's ban in 2002 and New Mexico's ban in March -- the pressure became relentless. 
 SURE, they're going to make it illegal, but they're never going to stop rooster fighting,'' said Chris Stewart, an avid breeder and fighter from Livingston Parish. ''All they're doing is pushing it underground, just like every other state.'' Nobody here talks about traveling to Mexico, Puerto Rico, Bali or the Philippines, where cockfighting remains a legal form of popular entertainment.
 In the dozen or so licensed venues in Louisiana, there is a palpable sense that the end is near. Recent crowds have been large and boisterous. Fighters, who usually pace their roosters to make it through the January-to-August season, are crisscrossing the state to enter as many events as possible. The activity has never been a big tourist draw, but Mr. Stewart said he had been getting calls every week from outsiders who wanted to experience a match before it was outlawed.
 ''I was pitting roosters when I was 11, 12 years old,'' Mr. Stewart said in a country drawl. ''It's a heritage. It's been handed down and handed down. Down in the lower country with all the Cajuns, it's big-time. Just the way it's in the rooster's blood, it gets in your blood.'' 
 With the clock on his passion ticking away, Mr. Stewart has been fighting his birds relentlessly. He is a regular on Friday and Sunday nights -- in addition to participating at Atchafalaya -- at the L'il Rebel Game Club in Holden, La., just down the road from his home. Clarence (Wooly) Bunch owns and operates L'il Rebel, a tiny but once-thriving club that he is painstakingly rebuilding after it burned to the ground in a 2004 accident. 
 Mr. Bunch, 61, spends his weekdays at the club with hammer and nails even as the curtain threatens to fall on his livelihood. He's trying to add a small kitchen so his wife can fix hot food at the matches. A hand-lettered sign on the wall indicates that Mr. Bunch's beer license is pending.
 ''I'm just going to keep carrying on,'' Mr. Bunch said. ''If they pass the bill, you're going to see a lot backyarding just like every other state. I'm never going to get rid of my birds. It's just not right for something to be legal and then, all of a sudden, it's illegal.''
 While Mr. Stewart and Mr. Bunch are resigned to the fate of cockfighting, Rowdy Albers is angry. 
 ''My daughter's 21 years old now and she's been around it all her life,'' he said. ''Now she's crying that her child won't get to see it. Besides, they're not animals, they're birds.''
 Mr. Albers's breakdown of the animal kingdom is often repeated by cockers. In fact, the state uses this creative taxonomy to allow the activity, exempting fighting roosters from its otherwise sweeping law against cruelty to animals. 
 Cockers point out that most of the birds don't die in the pit, although poked-out eyes and broken legs and wings are common. Even maimed, gamecocks can be used for breeding and, for the most part, live out their lives like any other chicken not destined for the dinner table.
 Dale Barras, who has operated the Atchafalaya Game Club for 10 years, looks at a ban through an economic lens and sees a ''lose-lose situation.''
 ''I have $250,000 invested in this place that's going to be thrown out the window,'' Mr. Barras said in a thick Cajun accent. ''And it's not just the pit operators. What happens to the feed stores? The supply houses? The breeders? You have to understand, people come from all over the country to fight. They fill up the motels. The waitresses get great tips. It's going to be devastating.''
 Laura Maloney, director of the Louisiana Society for the Protection of Animals, expresses sympathy for people invested in the fight game. But after years of unsuccessful lobbying, she and fellow activists are going for the kill.
 ''It's cruel and barbaric and it desensitizes people to violence,'' Ms. Maloney said. ''This needs to be banned immediately, and for a ban to be enforceable, it needs to be a felony.''
 In fact, a recent poll in Louisiana showed that 82 percent of voters favored a ban. The growing public disapproval pushed cockfighting into the shadows years ago. 
 Mr. Barras no longer posts fliers or other forms of advertisement for his club. And in March, following state police raids of two other pits, Mr. Barras established an age requirement of 21 for spectators and participants. The owners of the raided pits -- Milk Dairy in Tickfaw and Sunrise in Logansport -- were cited for illegal gambling and contributing to the delinquency of juveniles.
 Lt. Rhett Trahan of the Louisiana State Police helped lead the recent raids and harbors little sympathy for cockfighters. ''I'm just as Cajun as the rest of them,'' he said, ''and it's sure not part of my culture.''
 Henderson, home of the Atchafalaya Game Club, is a one-exit town near Lafayette, 120 miles west of New Orleans. The club, two large metal warehouses on a gravel road behind Peggy's Lounge, has no signs and no parking lot. 
 But when Saturday afternoon rolls around, the grass field next to the club fills with pickup trucks as fighters unload their prized and pampered roosters. The birds, carrying revered bloodlines like Albany, Hatch and Gypsy, are carefully bred and trained for speed, cutting prowess and gameness.
 Before the fights begin, the handlers move their roosters to ''cockhouses'' -- air-conditioned stalls -- inside one of the warehouses. Some of the regular fighters adorn their stalls with signs sporting their fight monikers: Final Cut, Fast Dolla, Wrecking Farm and Fowl Play.
 On one recent Saturday, Mr. Barras served up 25 sacks of spicy boiled crawfish as the fighters and fans trickled in. The dress code trends toward faded denim and camouflage, tattoos and cowboy boots. The atmosphere is warm and friendly, with familiar rivals seeking each other out, asking about family members and swapping fight stories. Women are a distinct, but vocal, minority.
 Spectators pay a $20 cover charge. As they enter, they walk past a snack bar featuring such South Louisiana delicacies as crawfish etouffee, jambalaya and gumbo. A small shop sells items ranging from gaffs and bird vitamins to souvenir hats and T-shirts. One popular shirt features two roosters grappling under the watchful eyes of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln, all reputed cockfighting fans. As the rooster crowd likes to point out, an early biographer traced Lincoln's nickname, Honest Abe, to his fair handling of a disputed cockfight. 
 As the sun fades, the fighters turn to the business at hand, posting their $150 entry fee, sharpening the gaffs and blades they attach to the roosters' legs, weighing and tagging and fussing over their birds. As a fresh pair of fighters enters the pit, people in the crowd scream for betting action, offering wagers from $10 to $100. Through eye contact and a quick exchange of shouts and hand signals, the bet is on. 
 Mr. Stewart has entered the gaff competition, preferring the sharp spikes to the razorlike blades. He waits almost an hour before he's called for his initial match, and blood splatters seconds into the fight. He has trained his lemon-hackled rooster for a quick kill, a fatal gaff to his opponent's soft underbelly just below the wing. Instead, Stewart's bird gets spiked in the neck and begins to get pummeled. The rooster is still game, though, so the fighters are ushered into a smaller ''drag pit,'' where the match will end when one bird is killed or ''goes cold'' and refuses to fight. 
 The drama continues for about 10 more minutes as Mr. Stewart repeatedly revives the sagging bird by blowing on its head and sucking blood from its beak. When the rooster finally fails to respond, it's counted out, and Mr. Stewart carries his limp fowl back to its cage. He gives the bird a 50-50 chance of pulling through.
 The loss puts Mr. Stewart in the losers' bracket, knocking him out of the big money but putting him in position to win some underdog bets in later matches. The derby continues well past midnight, and his wife, Christine, ends up sleeping in the truck with the pillow and comforter she always brings.
 Mr. Stewart eventually wins several matches, but never strings together the three straight victories needed to share in the prize money. He is beaten and tired, but his mood lifts the next day when his losing roosters perk up, even the bird with the near-fatal neck wound. The creature will live to fight another day, even if those days are numbered. STILL LEGAL 
 THE Atchafalaya Game Club has cockfights every Saturday night through August, unless the Louisiana Legislature adopts an immediate ban before the end of the season.
 The club is in Henderson, La., a town of 1,544 people in St. Martin Parish, about 120 miles west of New Orleans. Henderson is marked by a single exit sign along Interstate 10. The nearest population center is Lafayette, 10 miles to the west. 
 The club is an unmarked metal shed on a gravel road, so it's easy to miss. If you look at a map, it's located in a sweeping bend of Grand Anse Highway (also known as Potato Shed Road), just off of Grand Point Highway. Since most maps don't even include Henderson, it may be more efficient to ask a local for directions to Peggy's Lounge. Atchafalaya Game Club is directly behind the lounge.
 A $20 cover charge gets you in the door. A snack bar features traditional Louisiana foods, and beverages, including beer, are available. If you're lucky, you'll attend on a night when the owner, Dale Barras, is boiling crawfish, served lagniappe (on the house).
 The closest motel is a clean, comfortable Holiday Inn Express alongside the Interstate off-ramp, 2942 Grand Point Highway in Breaux Bridge (337-667-8914); doubles start at about $85. In addition to a typical assortment of fast-food outlets and a Waffle House nearby, there are a number of quaint and authentic restaurants, including Landry's Seafood House, Robin's, Crawfish Town USA and Pat's Fisherman's Wharf. 
 Situated in the heart of the crawfish-rich Atchafalaya River Basin, most restaurants feature a variety of crawfish dishes. If you want to catch your own dinner, there is great fishing in Lake Bigeux and in the area's vast network of swamps and bayous. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: BIRD WARS -- Left, a rooster at its pre-match meal. Below, it's fight night at the L'il Rebel Game Club in Holden, La. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
THE VICTOR AND THE SPOILS -- A winning rooster and money he won for his owner. The bird fought at the L'il Rebel Game Club in Holden, La.
WEAPON -- Tying a gaff to a gamecock's leg.
OPPONENTS -- Two birds are introduced (they hate each other on sight).
TENSE MOMENT -- Spectators viewing a fight.
THE LINEUP -- Setting up the matches for the evening.
 ENCOURAGEMENT -- Working on a gamecock during a fight. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. F8) Map of Louisiana highlighting the locations of Atchafalaya Game Club and L'll Rebel Game Club. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



7 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Finds Agreement On the Need To Be Green

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: MACKINAC ISLAND, Mich., May 31 

 BODY:
Labor and management in the auto industry are often at odds, but on Thursday they agreed on something critics have been telling them for years: Detroit must act to reduce its vehicles' impact on the environment.
 Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the United Automobile Workers union, and William Clay Ford Jr., executive chairman of the Ford Motor Company, told Michigan business leaders that cutting emissions and raising fuel economy standards are critical to the future of the industry and that of Michigan.
Both men spoke at an annual policy conference sponsored by the Detroit Chamber of Commerce, held on Mackinac Island, a car-free retreat on the northern tip of Lake Huron. 
 Such comments are no surprise from Mr. Ford, who said his environmental views once caused many colleagues to view him ''as some sort of crazy radical.'' But they are somewhat unexpected from Mr. Gettelfinger, whose environmental leanings have not been well known. 
 Noting that he has come to believe that ''climate change is real,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said consumers were increasingly searching for more environmentally friendly vehicles. Detroit companies, he said, need to make more vehicles that meet those demands. 
 ''Unfortunately, there is an impression among the car-buying public that the Big Three build nothing but gas guzzlers, while Toyota is a division of Greenpeace,'' he said to loud applause. 
 Detroit automakers, which have fought many attempts to enact stricter standards governing fuel economy and automotive emissions, need to change customer's minds, Mr. Gettelfinger said.
 ''If the auto industry continues to be seen as dragging its feet on environmental issues,'' he said, ''it's going to hurt our brands and vehicles in the marketplace.''
 Mike Hudema, director of the Freedom From Oil coalition, a critic of the automakers, applauded Mr. Gettelfinger's comments.
 ''We're definitely pleased to hear that labor is really getting behind this and starting to push the auto industry for some strong commitments,'' Mr. Hudema said. 
 Mr. Gettelfinger, the first U.A.W. official to speak at the Mackinac conference since 1988, suggested several proposals, including setting automobile fuel economy standards that vary based on a vehicle's size. He also called for tax credits to manufacturers who invest in the United States, repeating ideas he first floated in March.
 Mr. Ford, meanwhile, proposed convening manufacturers, energy companies, governments and academics to develop a national energy policy. He said it was gratifying to see more concern about the environment from others in the industry.
 ''When I talked about the environment 20 years ago, and frankly even 5 years ago, many people thought I was eccentric at best or perhaps incredibly naive,'' Mr. Ford said. ''But in the past few years we demonstrated the business case for environmental stewardship.''
 Thursday's speeches came several weeks after General Motors' vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, a longtime advocate of muscle cars and horsepower, showed his green side during the taping of a National Public Radio program in Ann Arbor, Mich. Mr. Lutz described the Chevrolet Volt, a battery-powered concept car, as being ''among the most important vehicles that G.M. has ever developed.''
 The conference also follows criticism of the Detroit automakers leveled by Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, during a visit to the city. Mr. Obama, a presidential candidate, said that the auto companies were doing little to curtail the nation's dependence on imported oil and laid out a series of proposals, including one that would raise fuel economy standards to about 40 miles a gallon over the next few years.
 Mr. Obama's proposal is similar to one made by the Bush administration, which would increase fuel economy standards by about one mile a gallon each year. The current standard is 27.5 miles a gallon for cars and 24 miles a gallon for light trucks. 
 Congress, however, has been considering more drastic proposals, to the alarm of some Detroit executives. 
 With some kind of increase appearing inevitable, officials at the Detroit auto companies have said that they want to work with lawmakers on a plan that would minimize the financial impact.
 ''Collectively we didn't move fast enough,'' Mr. Ford conceded in his speech. But he warned, ''Legitimate concerns about global warming, energy security and the cost of gasoline have created a rush toward arbitrary and poorly conceived solutions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LAKES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); LAKE HURON (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



8 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: Deficit Expected To Be Less Than Predicted

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
This year's federal budget deficit probably will be about $200 billion, $44 billion less than the Bush administration first forecast, said the White House budget director, Rob Portman. In a briefing on budget negotiations with Congress, Mr. Portman attributed the lower number to a growing economy that is bringing in higher tax revenue combined with efforts to hold down government spending. ''There's no magic to it,'' he said. ''The point is the deficit is going down, and it has been going down.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



9 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Chief Says G.E. Aims to Match The Growth Pace Set by India

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 31 

 BODY:
Pressure to slim General Electric's corporate portfolio at home has not stopped Jeffrey R. Immelt's aggressive plans for expanding in emerging markets.
 On Thursday, Mr. Immelt, G.E.'s chairman and chief executive, told executives here that India had ''never offered us more potential than it does today.''
G.E. plans to participate in the country's ''massive focus'' on energy, he said, and will create a fund for infrastructure that could reach $1 billion. 
 ''This is the era of the developing world and of emerging markets,'' Mr. Immelt said. As the United States economy cools, G.E. and other large multinational companies are shifting their focus to faster-growth parts of the world. 
 Mr. Immelt's latest trip to India comes as the country's economy hit a new high. Figures released on Thursday showed that India's gross domestic product grew by 9.4 percent in the year ended in March. Indian officials say they expect growth to continue above 9 percent this year.
 ''If we can grow at the same pace as the Indian economy, we can be a great company,'' Mr. Immelt said. 
 Last year, G.E. executives said that they planned to make India a major market and that revenue from India would more than quadruple, to $8 billion by 2010. Assets in India will also reach $8 billion by 2010, the company said. 
 Mr. Immelt said Thursday that those goals were in sight: revenue in India in 2007 should be $3 billion, out of $175 billion at G.E., and by 2008 should reach $4 billion. G.E. should ''blow right through'' the target of $8 billion in Indian assets by 2010, he said. 
 This year, G.E. will earn more revenue outside of the United States than in it. The company said in April that first-quarter profit rose 2 percent, in part because of a focus on selling goods and consumer services in Asia and the Middle East. Revenue in developing markets was up 14 percent in the quarter. 
 Some analysts, notably Jeffrey Sprague of Citigroup, have suggested that G.E. spin off units, including NBC Universal and GE Money, to streamline the company and improve its stock performance.
 Mr. Immelt did not address asset sales Thursday. Instead, he said the company would continue to focus on several ''macro themes,'' including emerging markets. 
 A worldwide demand for infrastructure is ''a stunning long-term trend,'' Mr. Immelt said, and could require $4 trillion in overall global investment over the next eight years. Other macro themes include environmental technologies and opportunities created by changing demographics, like the rapidly growing need for health care. 
 The visit by Mr. Immelt comes as United States and Indian officials are in the last stages of negotiating a deal to share civilian nuclear technology. The plan has been stalled several times, though an agreement could be struck this weekend when R. Nicholas Burns, an under secretary of state, comes to New Delhi for fresh talks.
 Nuclear plant manufacturers, including G.E. and Westinghouse, are expected to be the chief beneficiaries of any deal, and G.E. has been lobbying both governments to agree to the plan. 
 ''India wants to do this, and the United States wants to do it,'' said Scott R. Bayman, president and chief executive of GE India, after Mr. Immelt's speech. ''It makes so much sense. We'll get it resolved,'' he said. 
 Mr. Immelt said he intended ''ultimately to be a participant in the nuclear industry here.'' 
 G.E.'s presence in India dates back more than a century, and the company's former chief executive John F. Welch Jr. is largely credited with promoting India as an outsourcing center. GE Money is one of India's largest credit card lenders through a partnership with the State Bank of India, and the company counts India's largest companies among its customers. 
 Over the last 12 months, G.E. signed deals to finance a power plant for a cement company and supply Air India with environmentally friendly engines. It also said it planned to invest $2 billion in Indian real estate and about $250 million in infrastructure and health care projects in India. 
 Despite the activity, India's effect on G.E.'s revenue stream is still minimal. India provided less than 2 percent of G.E.'s overall revenue last year, at $1.9 billion. Even so, that represented a jump of 90 percent over 2005. 
 G.E. expects to add 4,000 more employees in India over the next two years, bringing its total work force in the country to 17,000. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Immelt of G.E. promoted business with India yesterday. (Photo by Gurinder Osan/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DIVESTITURES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (52%); GE MONEY (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



10 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: BUSH PROPOSES GOAL TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Andrew C. Revkin and Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31 

 BODY:
President Bush, fending off international accusations that he was ignoring climate change, proposed for the first time on Thursday to set ''a long-term global goal'' for cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and he called on other high-polluting nations to join the United States in negotiations aimed at reaching an agreement by the end of next year.
 If carried through, such an agreement would be the first in which the United States, the world's biggest source of the emissions that scientists say are warming the planet, has committed itself to a specific target for cutting them.
It would be a major shift for Mr. Bush, who has resisted such absolute goals in part for economic reasons. The president has also steadfastly rejected the so-called Kyoto Protocol, which limits greenhouse gas emissions, on the grounds that two other major polluters -- China and India -- are not bound by the accord in the same way as the United States would be if it joined. The proposal, delivered in a speech at the United States Agency for International Development here, reflects the difficulties the Bush administration is facing in grappling with climate change as the scientific consensus has continued to build in favor of action to control the buildup of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere. 
 ''In recent years, science has deepened our understanding of climate change and opened new possibilities for confronting it,'' Mr. Bush said, previewing the climate change package he is to present when he meets the leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations in Germany next week. ''The United States takes this issue seriously.''
 The speech was greeted with intense skepticism by environmental advocates and some European officials.
 Some critics accused Mr. Bush of trying to hijack continuing environmental talks like those under the Kyoto treaty by substituting his own program, which even if successful would not bear fruit until he is about to leave office in 2009. 
 And, they said, the president delivered no clear statement on what steps the United States would take to limit emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while he was working on long-term goals for the next 50 years and beyond.
 Even those goals, said James L. Connaughton, the president's top environmental adviser, are ''aspirational.'' They would not be binding unless individual nations chose to bind themselves.
 ''There is no more time for longwinded talks about unenforceable long-term goals,'' said David Doniger, climate policy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group in Washington. ''We need to get a serious commitment to cut emissions now and in the G-8.''
 The speech on Thursday was the latest in a series of shifts on climate change by Mr. Bush. In July 2005, he offered his first explicit acknowledgment that humans were contributing to the problem of global warming. This year, for the first time, he mentioned climate change in his State of the Union address.
 In one sense, the change in tack has been forced on Mr. Bush by scientific advances in the understanding of how greenhouse gas emissions contribute to global warming. But it is also an example of the kind of policy adjustment that is becoming increasingly common in the second half of his second term. Another example is the announcement this week of economic sanctions to prod Sudan on Darfur. 
 The White House seems determined to alter the president's image on climate change before he leaves office in January 2009. The issue is a high priority for two of Mr. Bush's closest European allies -- Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany -- and with Democrats now controlling Congress, the president also faces domestic pressure to act. 
 Mr. Bush promised to convene a series of meetings, beginning in the fall, with 10 to 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions, including China and India. Each country would establish midterm national targets for reducing emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while working together to set a longer-term goal. 
 The talks also would bring together industry leaders, Mr. Bush said, so that the countries could work with them to pool their knowledge and promote investment in energy-efficient technologies, including solar and wind energy, clean coal and nuclear power. But each country would be free to set its own goals, and there would be no binding international framework for enforcement. 
 ''The United States is taking the lead, and that's the message I'm going to take to the G-8,'' Mr. Bush said.
 But how well that message will be received remains to be seen. Germany, backed by Britain and now Japan, has already proposed cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2050. Mrs. Merkel, who holds the presidency of the European Union and will be the host of the Group of 8 meeting in the Baltic Sea resort of Heiligendamm, has been pressing the group to adopt the plan, but the United States has rejected it.
 Speaking to reporters in Berlin, Mrs. Merkel called Mr. Bush's speech ''common ground on which to act,'' echoing a recent comment she made while visiting him in Washington. ''What is positive,'' she said, ''is that we can see from the speech that the president made earlier today that nobody can ignore the question of climate change.''
 But beneath the faint praise there was caution. The second phase of the Kyoto Protocol talks is set to take place in Bali at the end of this year, and Mr. Bush's alternative forum risks being seen as an attempt to circumvent or even derail those talks.
 Mr. Connaughton said the White House envisioned its negotiations taking place in parallel with those talks.
 Involving all the parties to the existing Kyoto Protocol and an underlying 1992 climate treaty that the United States is bound by, the Bali negotiations are aimed at deciding what to do next about a problem that international scientific advisers acknowledge will take decades to bring under control and will require intensive policy responses running far beyond Kyoto's timetables, which expire in 2012.
 One German official, speaking privately, said the Europeans would resist any plan that would throw the Bali talks off course. ''The holistic global approach to climate change is very important to us,'' he said. 
 Environmental advocates have been pressing for cuts in greenhouse gas emissions for more than a decade. In 1992, when Mr. Bush's father was president, the United States signed the first climate change treaty, the Framework Convention on Climate Change, which committed the world to avoiding dangerous human interference with the climate system but did not mandate any specific steps. The Kyoto Protocol was drafted five years later.
 Two independent experts -- William K. Reilly, who represented the first President Bush in the 1992 negotiations, and David G. Victor, a Stanford University law professor whose writings helped provide the underpinnings for Thursday's speech -- said that Mr. Bush's plan had merit. But they said it would not gain much ground unless the United States adopted limits on domestic emissions, something the president has been loath to do.
 ''If you take all of this at face value, and you imagine that they go off and actually do it, then it could be a radically different way of organizing the global effort to control these emissions,'' Professor Victor said. But he said it would be ''very difficult for this to be taken as seriously as it should be taken in the rest of the world without some kind of a clear game plan domestically in the U.S.'' 
 how some of our actions could impact it.'' FEB. 2002 Mr. Bush announces a plan to provide tax incentives to businesses for voluntarily reducing emissions. JUNE 2002 The administration's report to the United Nations says that the U.S. would be substantially changed in the next few decades by global warming. Mr. Bush distances himself from the report, saying that it was ''put out by the bureaucracy.'' AUG. 2003 The Environmental Protection Agency says that it does not have the authority, under the Clean Air Act, to regulate emissions linked to global warming from motor vehicles. In April 2007, the Supreme Court rejected that view. AUG. 2004 The administration's report to Congress says that emissions of greenhouse gases are the only likely explanation for global warming over the last three decades. Asked why the administration had changed its position on what causes global warming, Mr. Bush replies, ''Ah, we did? I don't think so.'' JULY 2005 On his way to the Group of 8 meeting, Mr. Bush says that he recognizes that ''an increase in greenhouse gases caused by humans is contributing to the problem'' of global warming. JAN. 2007 Mr. Bush mentions climate change for the first time in his State of the Union address. YESTERDAY Mr. Bush agrees for the first time to set a ''long-term global goal'' for curbing emissions of greenhouse gases. (Andrew C. Revkin and Farhana Hossain/The New York Times)(pg. A14) Chart Oct. 12, 2000 ''I don't think we know the solution to global warming yet and I don't think we've got all the facts before we make decisions. I'll tell you one thing I'm not going to do is I'm not going to let the United States carry the burden for cleaning up the world's air, like the Kyoto treaty would have done. China and India were exempted from that treaty. I think we need to be more evenhanded.'' Presidential debate Yesterday ''In recent years, science has deepened our understanding of climate change and opened new possibilities for confronting it.'' ''The United States will work with other nations to establish a new framework on greenhouse gas emissions for when the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. So my proposal is this: By the end of next year, America and other nations will set a long-term global goal for reducing greenhouse gases.'' In advance of the Group of 8 meeting (pg. A1) 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article and picture caption on Friday about President Bush's new proposal for setting a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions misstated the location of his speech announcing the plan. Mr. Bush spoke in an auditorium in the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, which also houses the offices of the United States Agency for International Development. He did not speak at the agency.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and his wife, Laura, yesterday. Mr. Bush said America took climate change and the impact of greenhouse gases seriously. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
President Bush spoke yesterday at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)
 (Pool photo by Jeff Haynes)(pg. A1) Chart: ''How the Administration's View Has Evolved'' In laying out a new approach on global warming yesterday, President Bush crossed a bright line he had studiously avoided throughout his time in office. In speeches and exchanges with reporters, he repeatedly said scientists had shown that the world was warming and greenhouse gases were building. In 2005, he first said he recognized that this human-caused change in the atmosphere was contributing to warming and this constituted a ''problem.'' But he never called, until now, for reductions in smokestack and tailpipe gases linked by scientists to global warming, instead focusing on voluntary means to slow the growth of such emissions. ASSESSMENT BY THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY FEB. 2001 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (I.P.C.C.): ''There is new and stronger evidence that most of the warming observed over the last 50 years is attributable to human activities.'' JUNE 2005 The world's top scientific academies, including the National Academies of the United States, say: ''The scientific understanding of climate change is now sufficiently clear to justify nations taking prompt action. It is vital that all nations identify cost-effective steps that they can take now, to contribute to substantial and long-term reduction in net global greenhouse gas emissions.'' FEB. 2007 I.P.C.C.: ''Most of the observed increase in globally averaged temperatures since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations.'' MAY 2007 The group of scientific academies: ''Recent research strongly reinforces our previous conclusions. It is unequivocal that the climate is changing, and it is very likely that this is predominantly caused by the increasing human interference.'' THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION MARCH 2001 Reversing a campaign promise, Mr. Bush says he will not regulate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. He rejects the Kyoto treaty on global warming, saying the pact would ''harm our economy.'' JUNE 2001 At a news conference to discuss the administration's climate change policies, Mr. Bush emphasizes the ''limits of our knowledge'' on global warming, saying that ''we do not know 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (82%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JAMES CONNAUGHTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



11 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15 Bush Calls for Global Goal In Curbing Greenhouse Gas President Bush, fending off international accusations that he was ignoring climate change, proposed for the first time to set ''a long-term global goal'' for cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and he called on other industrial nations to join the United States in negotiations aimed at reaching an agreement. A1 U.S. Official Assails Putin A top Russia expert at the State Department issued an unusually sharp public criticism of Moscow's behavior under President Vladimir V. Putin. A1 New Twist in Poisoning Case The suspect in the fatal poisoning of Alexander V. Litvinenko, the former K.G.B. officer and Kremlin critic who died last year in Britain, said Britain's foreign intelligence agency and a self-exiled Russian tycoon had organized the killing and framed him to create a political scandal. A3 Hunting for Kidnapped Britons The search for five British civilians kidnapped from an Iraqi government building intensified with American troops conducting raids in Sadr City, a Shiite stronghold, and the Iraqi government pledging its support for an investigation. 
 A8 Union to Weigh Israel Boycott A movement in Britain to boycott Israel economically gathered pace as the country's biggest labor union said it would follow the union of university instructors in weighing punitive measures against Israel. A15 New U.S.-India Nuclear Talks Talks intended to restart negotiations on a landmark nuclear pact between India and the United States began in New Delhi amid disagreement over India's right to continue testing nuclear weapons. A11 NATIONAL A16-22 Officials Identify Man With Dangerous TB The man with a dangerous form of tuberculosis who flew to Europe for his wedding and honeymoon was identified as a 31-year-old Atlanta lawyer. Department of Homeland Security officials said he re-entered the country from Canada when a customs agent let him pass despite knowing that the man was being sought by health authorities. A1 Secret Program is Under Fire The Senate Intelligence Committee questioned the continuing value of the Central Intelligence Agency's secret interrogation program for terrorism suspects. A18 Agent in Leak Case Sues C.I.A. Valerie Wilson, the former intelligence operative at the heart of an investigation that reached into the White House, sued the Central Intelligence Agency over its refusal to allow her to publish a memoir that would discuss how long she had worked for the agency. A18 Gene Scientist's DNA Decoded The full genome of James D. Watson, who jointly discovered the structure of DNA in 1953, has been deciphered, marking what scientists believe is the gateway to an impending era of personalized genomic medicine. A19 Library Dedicated to Minister Hundreds of friends, family members, ministers and politicians gathered to dedicate a library commemorating the ministry of the evangelist Billy Graham. A16 Increase in Minority Students The nation's minority student population, driven by an extraordinary influx of Hispanics, surged to 42 percent of public school enrollment, up from 22 percent three decades ago, according to an annual report. A21 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6 Columbia Will Let State Oversee Student Aid Office Columbia University will pay $1.1 million to a fund to educate students about loans and has agreed to have its financial aid office monitored by state officials for five years, under a settlement reached with the New York State attorney general. B1 New Jersey Pension Inquiry The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an inquiry into New Jersey's handling of its pension fund for public employees, suggesting that federal regulators are concerned that the state treasury did not properly disclose its contributions to the fund. B1 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 Bancrofts Open to a Sale In a remarkable turnaround, the Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, agreed to meet with Rupert Murdoch, just weeks after the family rejected an initial $5 billion takeover offer from Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation. A1 Law Firm's Founder May Go William S. Lerach is considering leaving the law firm he founded. While the exact reasons behind his career considerations remain unclear, it suggests that the investigation into accusations of kickbacks paid to class-action plaintiffs has gained momentum. C1 Google and Privacy Issues A feature in Google's map service that allows users to zoom in on urban images is raising privacy concerns. But Google said it had consulted with public service organizations in designing the service. C1 Business Digest C2 OBITUARIES A23 William Meredith A Pulitzer Prize-winning poet who used the rigorous constraints of meter and rhyme to subdue some of the most uncontrollable aspects of the human condition -- fear, loneliness, destiny, mortality -- he was 88. A23 EDITORIAL A24-25 Editorials: Ahead of the Group of 8 meeting, talking about warming and a real plan for AIDS; witness protection; knowledgeable furniture. Column: David Brooks. Crossword E32 Public Lives B2 TV Listings E24 Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); DNA (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); BOYCOTTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RELIGION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (63%); GENOMICS (63%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (60%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (75%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



12 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Playing to the Crowd; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Talk About Warming

 BODY:
President Bush has been feeling the heat on global warming. He's been feeling it from Congress, from state governors, from the business community and, most recently and powerfully, from America's closest foreign allies, who are fed up with his passivity on the issue and desperate for him to show some real leadership. 
 So yesterday Mr. Bush stepped before the microphones in Washington to announce that he would help convene a series of meetings beginning this fall of the worlds' 15 biggest emitters of greenhouse gases (the United States is No. 1) to develop a long-term ''global strategy'' for dealing with climate change. He offered no details beyond the general hope that the nations involved would voluntarily establish ''midterm national targets'' and would increase their investments in new and cleaner technologies.
Given Mr. Bush's history of denial and obstructionism when it comes to climate change, there are good reasons to be cynical about this sudden enthusiasm, coming as it does on the eve of the meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations. 
 Most of these nations -- and in particular the meeting's host, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany -- were deeply offended by the administration's rude rejection of Mrs. Merkel's proposal for deep, mandatory cuts in emissions by midcentury. Cuts of up to 80 percent by 2050 have been recommended by many of the world's top scientists as necessary to avert the worst consequences of climate change. 
 Mr. Bush gave no indication that he is any more sympathetic to Mrs. Merkel's ideas than he was a week ago. Indeed, his spokesmen made clear that he remains as hostile as ever to most of the mechanisms associated with the 1997 Kyoto accord, which included a firm if modest cap on emissions. Many European leaders are still bristling over Condoleezza Rice's 2001 declaration that the treaty was ''dead on arrival.'' 
 As rhetoric, some of what Mr. Bush had to say was different and heartening. He acknowledged the need for real reductions in greenhouse gases, as opposed to his earlier strategy of allowing increases in emissions as long as they did not exceed the rate of economic growth. He said he found the scientific evidence of a link between climate change and human activity to be increasingly persuasive. He agreed that big developing nations like China and India absolutely had to be part of the solution. 
 Yet he remains convinced that technology holds most of the answers and that the regulatory restraints that many experts regard as a necessary condition of technological progress are largely unnecessary. He says further that his goal is to produce a common strategy in 18 months. This would coincide, roughly speaking, with his departure from public life, suggesting his real goal is to leave the heavy lifting to his successor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (69%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



13 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 890 words

 BODY:
 TALKS OVER SELLING DOW JONES -- The Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, agreed to meet with Rupert Murdoch just weeks after the family rejected an initial $5 billion takeover offer from Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation. [Page A1.] LERACH MAY LEAVE LAW FIRM -- William S. Lerach, one of the most powerful securities class-action lawyers in the nation, is considering plans to leave the law firm he founded three years ago. His possible departure suggests that a long-running criminal investigation into accusations of kickbacks paid to class-action plaintiffs has gained momentum. 
[C1.] SEEING OPPORTUNITY IN DEFAULTS -- The subprime mortgage business is in tatters, but that hasn't stopped some private equity companies, hedge funds and investment banks from swooping in and taking over those battered businesses, seeing opportunity amid the wreckage. [C1.] WIND POWER'S TAX BREAKS -- The nation's investment in wind energy continues to grow. But there is uncertainty over whether lawmakers in Congress will extend the tax benefits that encourage companies to invest in wind power. [C1.] PICTURES, FOLLOWED BY WORDS -- A new online feature of Google Maps that offers panoramic ground-level photographs of miles of streets around San Francisco, New York, Las Vegas, Miami and Denver is stirring up a debate over privacy concerns on the Web. [C1.] PUBLISHERS SEEKING BLOCKBUSTER -- In the absence of a new Harry Potter book or a blockbuster by Dan Brown, the publishing industry struggled to sell more copies last year than it did the year before, according to a report to be released today by the Book Industry Study Group, a publishing trade association. [C3.] QUESTIONS OVER MAN WITH TB -- The man with a dangerous form of tuberculosis who flew to Europe for his wedding and honeymoon was identified as Andrew Speaker, 31, a lawyer in Atlanta, who homeland security officials said entered the country when a customs agent who knew Mr. Speaker was being sought by health authorities let him pass. Congress plans to hold hearings on the way the case has been handled. [A1.] DELL TO LAY OFF 10% OF WORKERS -- Dell said that it would lay off 10 percent of its 88,100 employees over the next 12 months as it tries to increase profit. [C3.] WACHOVIA BUYS A. G. EDWARDS -- The Wachovia Corporation swallowed up A. G. Edwards in a $6.8 billion cash and stock deal that highlights the continued consolidation of the retail brokerage sector. [C5.] FINES PAID IN BACKDATING CASES -- Two technology companies, Brocade Communications Systems and Mercury Interactive, became the first two companies to pay fines to settle federal accusations of civil fraud in connection with backdated stock options. Brocade has agreed to pay $7 million and Mercury is paying $28 million. [C8.] WELLPOINT OUSTS FINANCIAL CHIEF -- WellPoint, the biggest American health insurer, ousted its chief financial officer after an external investigation revealed he violated its code of conduct. The board named its chief accounting officer, Wayne S. DeVeydt, to replace the finance chief, David C. Colby, effective immediately. [C6.] GREEN ISSUES AND AUTOMAKERS -- Labor and management in the auto industry are often at odds, but they have agreed on something critics have been telling them for years: Detroit must act to reduce its vehicles' impact on the environment. [C3.] N.J. COURT RULES ON WAL-MART SUIT -- In a setback for Wal-Mart, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that a lawsuit claiming that the company refused to allow workers to take rest breaks and meal breaks could proceed as a class action on behalf of nearly 80,000 current and former Wal-Mart employees. [C7.] CONGRESS TAKING UP TAX SHELTERS -- Congress is taking another close look at reining in questionable tax shelters that have deprived the government of hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes in recent years. [C5.] ECONOMIC GROWTH RATE IS CUT -- The Commerce Department revised the broadest indicator of economic strength, measuring all goods and services produced in the United States, to show a 0.6 percent advance over the first three months of the year. [C3.] 'MISCONDUCT' BY 2 CHINESE FIRMS -- Chinese regulators acknowledged that two Chinese companies had ''engaged in some misconduct'' in the way they labeled and sold a poisonous ingredient that ended up in cold medicine, killing at least 100 people in Panama last year. But the regulators said primary responsibility for the deaths rested with traders in Spain and Panama. [A6.] ONLINE RETIREMENT -- As life spans lengthen, experts on aging say it is more important than ever to prepare for the physical and psychological aspects of retirement. A special section is at nytimes.com/retirement. BUSINESS OF GREEN -- Consumer products are beginning to carry details about their environmental impact, and restaurant owners are finding ways to handle garbage with less affect on the environment. Those articles and more are in a special section at nytimes.com/business. Business Briefing Articles on these developments are available at nytimes.com/business. The Justice Department approved Monsanto's $1.5 billion acquisition of the cotton company Delta and Pine Land, but required both companies to sell assets related to cottonseed production. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows WellPoint shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING TRADE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (62%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (62%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); SUBPRIME LENDING (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (94%); NEWS CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (88%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



14 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Wachovia in a $6.8 Billion Deal to Acquire A.G. Edwards

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Peter Edmonston contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When the brokerage business was populated by dozens of small companies, three firms in St. Louis made the city the industry's biggest center west of Wall Street. Now, only two remain independent.
 The Wachovia Corporation swallowed up A. G. Edwards yesterday in a $6.8 billion cash and stock deal that highlights the continued consolidation of the retail brokerage sector.
Bringing together more than $1.1 trillion in client assets and nearly 15,000 advisers, the move aims to expand Wachovia's reach in the securities business as it faces more difficult times in other parts of the banking industry. 
 The deal will make Wachovia Securities the country's second-largest retail broker after Merrill Lynch, allowing it to take advantage of the cost efficiencies that come with size and to sell bank products to a bigger base of affluent clients. It also could enhance the capabilities of its fledgling investment bank, giving clients access to a broader network of retail investors for distributing new securities offerings. 
 ''This is an end game for us,'' G. Kennedy Thompson, Wachovia's chairman and chief executive, said on a conference call with investors. ''We have everything that we need to grow this business organically.''
 For A. G. Edwards, the deal is the end of an era. Ever since a friend of Abraham Lincoln founded the securities firm more than 120 years ago, it remained fiercely independent. Until the last several years, it was run by a member of the Edwards family. 
 It was also among the last of the brokerage firms to focus mainly on distributing, not manufacturing, investment products. And over the years, it developed a reputation for standing by its brokers during market downturns even when rivals cut their ranks.
 But the industry's underlying economics have changed. Investors are increasingly turning to bigger firms like UBS and Morgan Stanley, which offer more attractive prices and a broader set of investment products. Others are heading to online and discount brokerage firms, where they pay even lower commission fees to execute trades. 
 ''We knew we needed scale, we knew we needed additional products as financial services continues to migrate toward a global platform,'' said Robert L. Bagby, the company's chief executive, during the conference call. ''We could not provide that at A. G. Edwards. We didn't have the capital base.''
 They may not be the only ones. Among the major regional brokerage houses, only firms like Edward Jones, its privately held crosstown rival, and Raymond James, a Florida-based broker, are left. Shares of Raymond James rose more than 7 percent yesterday on speculation that it could be taken over next. 
 Wachovia's offer yesterday involves a significant outlay of cash and stock. It calls for shareholders of A. G. Edwards to get 0.9844 Wachovia shares and $35.80 in cash for every A. G. Edwards share, giving shareholders a 16 percent premium over Wednesday's closing price. The deal is expected to close in early October, executives said.
 The combined retail brokerage business will operate out of St. Louis, while A. G. Edwards's other lines of business, including stock research and investment banking, will be folded into the bank's current operations.
 Wachovia, formed through a series of mergers over the years, has earned a reputation as an acquisition machine. Last year, it bought Golden West Financial, one of the last major independent banks on the West Coast, in a $26 billion deal. And it has steadily built its securities business by piecing together smaller firms. 
 The deal for A. G. Edwards is the latest big grab for the Wachovia brokerage unit, which nearly doubled in size through a 2003 joint venture with Prudential Financial.
 Still the latest deal also presents integration challenges. Bank executives say that they expect to eliminate as many as 4,000 employees, or about a quarter of the combined total work force, and close about 230 branches over a three-year period. 
 But the biggest hurdle, analysts say, may be holding on to its advisers. Competitors are already on the prowl, and turnover is typically rampant during transitions. 
 Wachovia said that it planned to offer large retention packages to the A. G. Edwards brokers and keep top managers from both companies. While Daniel J. Ludeman, currently president and chief executive of Wachovia Securities, will continue in those roles at the combined brokerage firm, Mr. Bagby, 65, will be chairman.
 Although A. G. Edwards executives are not entitled to any change-in-control payouts, the deal will allow its managers and directors to cash out millions of dollars in stock and options. At $89.50, Mr. Bagby has shares worth $14.5 million. 
 One of the big winners in the deal appears to be a former University of Maryland finance professor and a longtime A. G. Edwards director, E. Eugene Carter, who holds more than 230,000 shares. That stake could be worth $20.6 million. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The A. G. Edwards headquarters in St. Louis, where the combined business will be based. (Photo by Jeff Roberson/Associated Press) Chart: ''A Merger of Leaders'' Wachovia and A.G. Edwards are among the biggest securities firms, based on their number of brokers. Based on capital, they are not near the top. Merrill Lynch BROKERS, DEALERS: 16,480 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 783 CAPITAL, In billions: $171.1 Citigroup BROKERS, DEALERS: 12,782 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 737 CAPITAL, In billions: 78.4 Wachovia Securities BROKERS, DEALERS: 10,137 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 488 CAPITAL, In billions: 2.3 Edward Jones BROKERS, DEALERS: 9,733 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 9,241 CAPITAL, In billions: 1.2 Morgan Stanley BROKERS, DEALERS: 9,526 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 495 CAPITAL, In billions: 125.9 UBS BROKERS, DEALERS: 7,520 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 346 CAPITAL, In billions: 3.2 A.G. Edwards BROKERS, DEALERS: 6,850 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 737 CAPITAL, In billions: 1.9 Charles Schwab BROKERS, DEALERS: 5,796 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 224 CAPITAL, In billions: 5.0 Fidelity Investments BROKERS, DEALERS: 4,052 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 110 CAPITAL, In billions: 1.8 Deutsche Bank BROKERS, DEALERS: 3,014 BROKERAGE OFFICES: 15 CAPITAL, In billions: 8.9 Figures as of Jan. 1, 2006. (Source by Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES BROKERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (61%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (96%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (96%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%)

PERSON: G KENNEDY THOMPSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



15 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Call for a Minimum Wage Of $14 for Domestic Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
For years, the more than 200,000 nannies, housekeepers and other domestic workers in New York State have been exempt from many basic labor protections.
 But now 55 immigrant groups, labor unions and other organizations are trying to change that by pushing for legislation that would require a minimum wage of $14 an hour for the state's domestic workers.
 The legislation, called the Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights, would also require that these workers receive paid personal days, paid holidays, paid vacations, at least one day off each week, severance pay and 21 days' advance notice before termination. 
 The bill's supporters said yesterday that they would start a lobbying campaign today with a large meeting in Manhattan. Over the next two weeks, rallies, a march, a vigil and a trip to Albany to press lawmakers are planned.
 Supporters of the bill say domestic workers deserve special protection because they are arguably the most invisible and most vulnerable workers in the state.
 ''These workers play a very important role in the state economy,'' said Ai-jen Poo, the founder of Domestic Workers United, a Bronx-based advocacy group. ''They work for the state's professional class -- lawyers, doctors, financial people, media people -- and their work makes it possible for all these people to go to work every day.'' 
 Because of behind-the-scenes work by Domestic Workers United, the bill has strong support among labor and immigrant groups; more than 95 percent of domestic workers in New York State are immigrants. The bill has 15 sponsors in the State Assembly, but even some supporters acknowledge that it might face rough going because the $14 minimum wage for domestic workers is much higher than the $7.15-an-hour statewide minimum wage. 
 The bill would also require employers to either provide health insurance or to pay domestic workers an additional $2 an hour.
 Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., has lobbied for the bill, saying that domestic workers warrant special protection because they do not have the right to unionize under federal or state law. Domestic workers are also not covered by employment discrimination laws, occupational safety laws or the Family and Medical Leave Act.
 ''It is incumbent upon those in power to help those who have the least because they need our help the most,'' Mr. Hughes said.
 Marc Violette, a spokesman for Gov. Eliot Spitzer, declined to comment this week about the bill, citing the governor's policy of commenting on legislation only after the Assembly and the Senate have passed it.
 State officials say they have made clear to the bill's supporters their discomfort with legislation that singles out a specific group for a higher minimum wage, especially one so much higher than the statewide minimum. (The bill initially calls for a $12 minimum, climbing to $14 in 2010.)
 Ms. Poo said that many households already pay their nannies and housekeepers $14 an hour, although a survey of 547 domestic workers that her group conducted last year found that the median wage for domestic workers was $10 an hour. About one in six households paid more than $13.46 an hour, according to the survey.
 Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a Manhattan Democrat, said he decided to introduce the bill partly because he was the grandson of domestic workers. He said he believed that a somewhat amended bill had a realistic chance of passage. 
 ''We have to get into some legislative practicalities,'' he said, ''but some of those in the domestic workers' movement don't want to hear it.''
 One problem the bill faces is finding a sponsor in the Senate. Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican, introduced the bill in the last session, but he failed to win re-election last November.
 ''I don't think this bill is a good idea,'' said E. J. McMahon, executive director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an arm of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. ''Any attempt like this to mandate wages, benefits and working conditions for a large number of entry-level workers can only have one result: fewer such jobs for people who need them.''
 Mr. McMahon said the bill seemed to make assumptions about those who hire domestic workers. ''The people who need to hire domestic workers are not only hedge-fund bonus babies who roll their cigars with $100 bills,'' he said. ''This bill could create a lot of stress for people who currently pay these workers fair wages.''
 The bill would require that domestic workers receive nine paid holidays, five paid sick days, five paid personal days, two weeks of vacation after six months on the job and four weeks of vacation after five years of service -- with the workers able to choose when to go on vacation.
 Barbara Young, a nanny from Barbados who cares for a 5-year-old on the Upper West Side, said that in her previous job as a nanny on Long Island, her pay was low and it was very hard to support her children. She said that not having sick days or personal days was a big problem.
 ''Any time we have to take time off to go to a doctor, there is a threat of losing your job, and there's no pay for the day you're off from work,'' she said. ''I think domestic workers need protection. This job needs to be respected. There are a lot of abuses in the industry.''
 Some workers complain of being forced to work seven days a week and not being paid time and a half for overtime.
 ''These folks are the invisible cogs that make the economic engines of New York work,'' Assemblyman Wright said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara Young, a nanny on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, with Gidget Rosen, 5, at Riverside Park. ''This job needs to be respected,'' she said. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (75%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (62%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



16 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Big, Gritty Chongqing, City of 12 Million, Is China's Model for Future

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: CHONGQING, China 

 BODY:
Stand in the right spot in this gigantic city and hills draped with apartment complexes can remind you of Hong Kong, the density of habitation will recall Tokyo and the river-spanning brawn, replete with an immense new structure over the Yangtze that echoes the Brooklyn Bridge, might recall New York.
 Everywhere one looks here, there are new expressways, new bridges and towering new housing complexes rising, so many in fact that it is the occasional glimpse of something old, rather than the sight of anything new, that takes one's breath away. 
 China has built megacities before, of course. The country's rich east abounds with them, strung along the coast from Tianjin in the north to Shenzhen in the far south like so many pearls. But the swift rise of Chongqing represents a new departure: a major push by Beijing to spread the fruits of China's economic boom to the country's vast interior, home to three Chinese in four. 
 A consensus has emerged among Beijing's leadership that the way to ease poverty in the interior is to encourage people by the tens of millions to abandon the land for the cities.
 ''This is the path every developed country has taken,'' said Tang Jun, a sociologist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. ''To ask whether China wants urbanization is like asking whether a person needs to eat.''
 In 1978, a mere 18 percent of Chinese lived in cities and towns. By 2010, the authorities estimate that 50 percent will, as part of what demographers and other experts say is the greatest migration in human history.
 One after another, the big cities of the interior have eagerly entered the race to urbanize, with many openly brandishing the objective of becoming a ''world city'' within a few years. But whether judged by its size, its ambition or the scale of transformation, Chongqing, with its 12 million people, remains in a class by itself.
 The city's economic growth is drawing about 200,000 new residents a year, the equivalent of adding an Akron, Ohio, or an Orlando, Fla. But the city fathers are not content to stop there. 
 They are also expanding the city limits, rapidly incorporating adjacent rural areas under a scheme the city calls the ''one-hour economy circle.'' Under the plan, which is being emulated by other big inland cities, the city wants to move two million rural residents into newly urbanized areas within an hour's driving distance from the city center within the next five years, and another two million in the five years after that. 
 As an inducement the city is enticing landholders to surrender their claims on their rural plots in exchange for prized urban residency permits that offer not only legal residence in a city, but also access to social services and benefits unavailable in rural areas.
 Chongqing is already comfortably China's biggest inland city, but within a decade or so, initiatives like these could push it into contention with Shanghai and Beijing for the title of the nation's biggest city.
 As with anything on this scale, the process has been full of hiccups, gigantic hiccups in some cases, all of which are on display almost every day here. One of the most obvious problems is the environment. 
 Even in a country full of grimly polluted places, Chongqing, whose economy is based on river transportation, steel, smelting and the manufacture of motorcycles and automotive spare parts, bears special mention. A haze hangs in the air even on good days, and for much of the rest of the year the city's skyline simply disappears at any distance.
 Chongqing plans to move a giant steel mill that belches smoke night and day from the city center to the outskirts and has undertaken other measures to improve air quality, which residents say have begun to produce limited results.
 ''For 10 days this winter you could see clear blue skies and white clouds, which is something that didn't exist in previous winters,'' said Wu Dengming, leader of a local environmental group called the Green Volunteer League. 
 But asked about the future, given the rapid population growth, Mr. Wu sounded markedly more pessimistic. ''There are more and more pressures on the environment, and the population is the main reason,'' he said. ''More people means more consumption, more production and more waste.''
 Increasingly the city's expansion is attracting people who might otherwise have migrated to the east or beyond. Yun Zhao, 31, a bright woman who works in a large insurance company here, was drawn back here after studying in Toronto and becoming a legal resident of Canada, something that has long been close to an irresistible dream for many Chinese.
 ''I grew up in Chongqing, but now when I go to other districts to meet friends, I wouldn't recognize them as part of Chongqing unless someone told me,'' Ms. Yun said. Asked why she had decided to come back, she was categorical. ''There are more opportunities here than abroad,'' she said.
 But if the creation of giant new cities like this was intended to alleviate the poverty of rural migrants, the results so far have been mixed. Many thousands of people arrive here chasing a dream they seem unlikely ever to catch.
 Those Chongqing newcomers can be seen in droves, trudging through the city's streets with lengths of stout bamboo looking for casual work as old-fashioned porters. Others are drawn by the lure of regular work in the booming construction industry, but the supply of laborers far outstrips the demand.
 Yu Hai, a 25-year-old man with the face of a teenager, arrived alone from his village in Sichuan Province in April, hoping to earn enough money to help his father, who is 70 but still farms the family's small plot of wheat, potatoes and rice.
 ''My father is a hard worker,'' Mr. Yu said, speaking in a run-down neighborhood that is full of recent arrivals. ''I tell him to have fun for a day, but he doesn't know how.''
 ''If I can find a good job, I'll stick to it,'' Mr. Yu continued, setting his goal at about $125 a month. ''Why would I go home? It's too tedious to work the land.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many men from the countryside who move to Chongqing seek work like that of this porter on his way to deliver a load of chickens.
 Construction is booming in Chongqing. In the Jiangbei district, work on a high-rise apartment complex called Zhujiang Taiyang is under way. (Photographs by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times) Map of China highlighting Chongqing: Chongqing may rival Shanghai and Beijing in population one day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBANIZATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (52%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); YANGTZE RIVER (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



17 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Reaction in Lebanon to U.N. Assassination Tribunal

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Nada Bakri contributed from Beirut, Lebanon, and Hugh Naylor from Damascus, Syria.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, May 31 

 BODY:
After two and a half years of protests, Lebanese who have demanded an international tribunal to try suspects in the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and in several other politically inspired killings finally got what they wished for.
 But even within Lebanon, the reaction was mixed. And with Syrian intelligence and officials close to President Bashar al-Assad among those already accused of involvement in the Hariri killing, the greatest fear expressed by many in the region on Thursday was that the tribunal approved by the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday would only result in further turmoil. 
''This is not the Nuremburg trials, where the whole world was in agreement, or a trial over a massacre in Rawanda, where millions were killed,'' said Riad Kahwaji, director of the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analyses in Dubai. ''This is a trial for the political murder of several individuals, and what is at stake is the stability and security of the whole region.''
 Mr. Hariri, 60, a powerful prime minister who had helped lead Lebanon's reconstruction after 15 years of civil war, was killed with 22 other people in a February 2005 bombing. The ensuing public outcry forced Syria to end its 29-year domination of Lebanon. But it also set off a series of political crises that culminated in a six-month-long sit-in outside the seat of government, bringing much of it to a virtual standstill. 
 Supporters of the tribunal hailed it as a major step forward. Late Wednesday, Mr. Hariri's supporters celebrated with fireworks and a visit to Mr. Hariri's grave.
 ''We will not fear for our future and that of our children anymore; we can relax at last,'' said Rana Ramadan, 24, a member of the Future Movement, led by Saad Hariri, Rafik Hariri's son and political heir, speaking on Thursday. ''The court was the simplest thing that we could do to honor the martyr Hariri for all the accomplishments he did. It is the beginning of Lebanon's freedom.''
 Critics, however, say they fear it will undermine Lebanon's sovereignty and worsen the country's political instability. Syria, which has been fingered in preliminary investigations, says that senior members of the regime will be forced to testify or be indicted, threatening the very core of its government. Others, like the militant group Hezbollah, say the court will be used by the United States and other Security Council members that oppose its growing political role in Lebanon to weaken it. 
 ''The resolution is a violation of the sovereignty of Lebanon and an aggressive interference in its internal affairs,'' said a statement issued by Hezbollah on Thursday. ''This is a blatant violation that makes the resolution illegal and illegitimate, both nationally and internationally. The ruling coalition has presented a great gift to the American administration as they put between its hands a political card that it can use for political pressure.''
 The Security Council passed the resolution by a vote of 10 to 0, with China, Qatar, Indonesia, Russia, and South Africa abstaining. The resolution, under Chapter VII of the United Nations charter, makes the court's rulings binding and provides it with powers to indict and interrogate officials who may not have been held accountable before.
 Chapter VII allows the Security Council to take military and nonmilitary action to ''restore international peace and security'' against any threat to peace or act of aggression. Abstaining countries contended that establishing the tribunal under Chapter VII was inappropriate and that a trial can only go ahead if there is a political consensus for it in the country.
 The resolution gives the Lebanones Parliament until June 10 to vote on the existing legislation. If it does not, and few expect that it will, a United Nations tribunal consisting of a majority of international judges and an international prosecutor would be organized in a foreign location. 
 In downtown Beirut on Thursday night, many bristled at the idea that the Security Council could impose such a court in the first place, despite the will of the opposition, which is estimated to account for almost half of Lebanon. 
 ''Lebanon will be turned into a battlefield after this,'' said Hussein Jammoul, 27, a protester who has camped in the tent city in downtown Beirut since December. ''Every foreign country will be able to interfere in Lebanon's affairs.''
 In Damascus on Thursday, many said they feared the implications of the tribunal on a country that has already borne the burden of economic sanctions and international isolation.
 ''Why would Syria want to stir so much trouble by killing just one man,'' said Mahmoud Hinawi, a store owner. ''It doesn't make sense that we're blamed for this.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Rafik Hariri, the former prime minister of Lebanon, visited his grave yesterday in Beirut. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); MURDER (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CIVIL WAR (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) LEBANON (97%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



18 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Street Sense Will Pass Up the Belmont

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
Street Sense, the Kentucky Derby winner, is skipping the 139th running of the Belmont Stakes, leaving Curlin, the Preakness champion, the likely favorite in what now is a compact field of five for the third leg of the Triple Crown. 
 Street Sense's owner, Jim Tafel, and the trainer Carl Nafzger said they agonized for two hours Wednesday night over whether to seek a rematch with Curlin at Belmont on June 9 or to wait for the Travers Stakes in August at Saratoga Race Course. 
''The competitive side said go; the logical side said no, no, no,'' Nafzger said yesterday at a news conference at Churchill Downs. ''We went over a lot of situations last night. The decision was made. There were a lot of reasons to run and a lot of reasons not to run. Mr. Tafel wanted the Triple Crown like you can't believe.'' 
 But when Curlin ran down Street Sense in the stretch at Pimlico Race Course on May 19 to win the Preakness by a head, their dreams of becoming the 12th Triple Crown champion, and the first since Affirmed in 1978, were crushed. 
 So Tafel and Nafzger will forgo a rematch in a grueling mile-and-a-half race in June in favor of a potential championship campaign in the late summer and fall. Street Sense, after all, was awarded the Eclipse Award as the best 2-year-old after winning the Breeders' Cup Juvenile last fall at Churchill Downs. 
 ''We want the Travers and we want the Breeders' Cup Classic,'' said Nafzger, referring to the $5 million race that is the marquee event of thoroughbred racing's season-ending championships. The Classic will be run in October at Monmouth Park. 
 ''We could be the first horse to win the Juvenile, the Derby, the Travers, and the Classic,'' Nafzger said. ''Mr. Tafel said these are worthy goals, let's go after it. Let's don't chase spilled water. We spilled the water in the Preakness.'' 
 The defection of Street Sense means that the Belmont may attract its smallest field since 1978, when only three horses took on Affirmed and his rival Alydar. The most dangerous challenger to Curlin is Hard Spun, who finished second in the Derby and third in the Preakness. 
 Still, Curlin's trainer, Steve Asmussen, was not predicting an easy victory. Curlin has dazzled racing enthusiasts by winning four of five races, his only blemish a third-place finish in the Derby.
 ''That's Mr. Nafzger's decision and I'm sure he's doing what was right by the horse,'' Asmussen said. ''My position is be careful what you wish for. Right now is the first I heard that he wasn't coming. I was fully prepared to run against him and Hard Spun.'' 
 Instead, at this point Curlin will meet Hard Spun; Imawildandcrazyguy, the Derby's fourth-place finisher; Tiago, its seventh-place finisher; and Slew's Tizzy, who has won the Lexington Stakes and Lone Star Derby in his last two starts. 
 Nafzger conceded that economics played a part in the decision not to run Street Sense in the Belmont. As the 2-year-old champion and Derby winner, the colt is already worth $30 million as a stallion prospect. 
 ''As a sportsman, you want to come back and challenge Curlin now,'' Nafzger said. ''I can't believe we got beat, but we got beat. We got outrun. That's behind us. The decision now is to regroup.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); HORSE RACING (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); HORSES (78%); SPORTS FANS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



19 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Largest Labor Union in Britain May Consider a Boycott of Israel

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, May 31 

 BODY:
A movement in Britain to boycott Israel economically and culturally gathered speed on Thursday as the country's biggest labor union said it would follow the union of university instructors in weighing punitive measures against Israel. 
 Mary McGuire, a spokeswoman for Unison, a union of public service employees with 1.3 million members, said a resolution calling for a boycott had been placed on the agenda for the group's annual national conference starting June 19. Word of the proposal emerged one day after the University and College Union, representing 120,000 instructors, voted to urge its members to consider their future relationships and exchanges with Israeli academics.
The instructors' vote -- which did not impose an immediate boycott -- drew protests from academics in the United States and Israel. In Britain, senior figures at some of the country's top universities, including Cambridge and Oxford, distanced themselves from the resolution, saying that they ''strongly condemned'' it and that they ''reject outright the call for an academic boycott.'' 
 The chairman of the group, Prof. Malcolm Grant of University College London, said, ''It is a contradiction in terms and in direct conflict with the mission of a university.'' 
 Politicians from the major political parties also condemned the vote by the instructors' union.
 Asked if the Unison congress would also consider a boycott of some form, Ms. McGuire said, ''There is a motion down on our agenda that is to that effect.'' However, she said, with around 150 motions from the union's 1,500 branches to debate, it was not clear whether the boycott call would be discussed. According to the Unison Web site, www.unison.org.uk, the proposal to be debated at the conference says, ''Unison believes the appropriate response is to support the growing international moves towards a union-based campaign of boycott and sanctions against Israeli institutions, in line with the call from over 170 Palestinian civil society organizations including the Palestine General Federation of Trade Unions and individual unions and labor collectives.''
 In a preamble, the motion ''notes that, during 2006, Israel invaded Lebanon and Gaza, withheld tax revenues form the Palestine Authority and refused dialogue with the elected Authority following the democratic elections of January 2006, resealed the borders of Gaza, expanded illegal settlements in the West Bank, and continued the construction of the illegal Apartheid Wall.'' 
 It accused the government of Prime Minister Tony Blair of adopting ''a consistent stand in support of the Israeli government throughout the shameful events of 2006, even joining the U.S. in failing to call for a cease-fire amidst worldwide condemnation of the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.''
 The motion suggested that the union discuss the kinds of economic ties its members have with Israel and Israeli companies, and highlight the scope of a potential consumer boycott. The Israeli newspaper Haaretz said Thursday that officials from Histadrut, the largest union in Israel, had seen a copy of the Unison motion.
 Histadrut was reported to have urged the British union to withdraw the motion. But Ms. McGuire said the union leadership had no authority do so before the national conference. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Friday about a growing movement in Britain to boycott Israel economically and culturally referred incorrectly in some copies to a decision reached by the union of public service employees, the largest British labor union. The union said a resolution that would call for a boycott of Israel would be considered at its upcoming annual meeting. The union did not call for such a boycott.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); BOYCOTTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



20 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Increased Spending For Legal Aid

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed new regulations yesterday that are expected to increase by more than fourfold state spending on civil legal services for the poor. The regulations will require banks to pay a far higher interest rate on funds deposited in special accounts that lawyers use to temporarily hold money deposited by clients. Interest from these accounts has traditionally been used to pay for civil legal services, but banks have been paying an interest rate of 0.5 percent, on average. The new regulations will require banks to pay a more competitive rate of about 2.7 percent. The change, which requires a 45-day comment period but not legislative approval, is expected to increase financing for civil legal services for the poor from more than $13 million to as much as $65 million. DANNY HAKIM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); LEGAL AID (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (73%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007



21 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Trade to Bridge a Political North-South Divide

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: NIZHNY PANJ, Tajikistan 

 BODY:
The nearly completed bridge over the Panj River makes an incongruous sight. More than 700 yards long, it is the sort of modern and imposing concrete structure that might carry a rush of traffic over a gorge in the West.
 Instead it reaches from one nearly deserted bank of the Panj to the other, spanning the silence above a line that for decades has been one of the world's least traveled boundaries -- the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan, where the former Soviet Union met a land with which the Kremlin was at war.
By mid-August, if work here is completed on schedule, this isolated stretch of river will become a leg in an ambitious plan to connect trade and energy markets in South and Central Asia. These regions, adjacent to each other and sharing linguistic, religious and ethnic ties, have been separated for generations -- first by ideology, then by instability and a dearth of safe and easy routes.
 The bridge, underwritten by Washington and designed by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, is at the center of plans to establish a trade route from Kazakhstan to Pakistan. The corridor has been under construction for several years; Western and Central Asian diplomats say it will soon take shape. 
 ''The bridge is the symbol, the concrete symbol, of larger regional integration,'' Tracey Ann Jacobson, the United States ambassador to Tajikistan, said as she toured the structure in late May with foreign diplomats. 
 Under plans in progress along the route, foreign developers have been extending Central Asia's and Afghanistan's limited network of roads, tunnels and bridges.
 The improvements have been under way in Kyrgyz mountain passes and the arid canyons between Kabul and Jalalabad in Afghanistan, the route that leads to the Khyber Pass. They have been paid for by China, Iran, the United States and other nations, many of them competing for influence in the region.
 Now many projects are nearing completion. Together they might not merely improve access, but undo the trends of history. 
 During Soviet times, Central Asia faced north and west toward the Kremlin, moving goods to and from Moscow and Soviet cities along the line. Afghanistan faced toward Pakistan or Iran, feeling more affinity to Islamic traders than to the Slavic-led Communists to the north. 
 The border where the two worlds met served as an obstacle, both physical and intellectual, to robust trade. ''It was a wall for a long time,'' Hamrokhon Zarifi, Tajikistan's foreign minister, said in an interview. 
 After the Soviet Union's collapse, the murky Panj, mined in places on its banks and watched over from bunkers and guard towers, was crossed mostly by smugglers, armed groups and those with the means or connections to navigate the complications it posed. 
 Several ferries and barges have been working the river in recent years, and a few small bridges, some of them footbridges, have been built in the headwaters as well.
 In place of these limited and sometimes illegal border crossings, Tajikistan and other countries seek a two-stage development. First, beginning this year, they hope that fleets of trucks will regularly be driven across the border, generating trade in both directions. 
 Proponents point out that goods to Tajikistan now travel overland roughly 4,300 miles from ports on the Baltic Sea, on the far side of Russia. Ports in Pakistan or Iran, which will be accessible once the bridge opens, are less than half that distance away.
 Later, developers hope to construct power lines along the route, carrying electricity from Tajik hydropower stations, most of them not yet built, to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran.
 Questions remain about how many such dreams will be realized, in part because experience in neighboring Uzbekistan has shown that access alone does not guarantee trade.
 In the 1980s, the Soviet Union built a bridge to Afghanistan, downstream from here on the Amu Darya, which begins where the Panj meets the Vakhsh River and forms the Uzbek-Afghan border.
 Built as a thoroughfare for Red Army armor and supplies during the war in Afghanistan, it was named straight from party doublespeak: the Friendship Bridge. Uzbekistan inherited the span when the Soviet Union collapsed, then closed it in the 1990s as the Taliban spread. 
 Beginning late in 2001, after the Taliban lost its hold in northern Afghanistan, the Uzbek government allowed the United Nations to move food and other aid across the bridge. But otherwise it has largely been padlocked. Uzbekistan, security-minded and suspicious of outsiders, allows little traffic across it. 
 Tajik and American officials insist that the bridge over the Panj will be run differently. ''It will be a very busy bridge,'' said Mr. Zarifi, the foreign minister. 
 He noted that Tajikistan had already shown that its attitude toward foreigners differed from that in Uzbekistan: Last year it eased visa rules for visitors from 68 countries. Many visitors, including those from the United States, can purchase visas on demand at the airport in Dushanbe, the capital. Mr. Zarifi said he expected visas would also be available at the bridge.
 But other potential complications remain. Security is still a concern along many legs of the corridor, especially in Afghanistan, where the Kabul-to-Kandahar route is prowled by criminals and insurgents, and is especially dangerous to outsiders. 
 Even in the north, where the Taliban is much less strong, terrorists have detonated several bombs this year in Kunduz, a short drive from the bridge.
 A range of other problems could also undermine prospects for growth and investment. These include endemic corruption with border agents and the traffic police, whose conduct will to a large extent give the roads and borders their character.
 A shortage of banking transparency and independent judges also undermine a mature business climate. ''There is a reason that there is not a lot of investment here,'' said Elizabeth K. Horst, chief of the political and economics section at the American Embassy in Dushanbe. ''It's not ready for it.''
 About the trade corridor, she added, ''It is a really good idea, but making it happen on the ground is going to be harder than people realize.''
 For now, the bridge, being built by Rizzani de Eccher of Italy, is almost finished after 16 months' work. Administration zones on either side -- including passport-control areas, barracks, parking lots and reception centers -- are beginning to rise. 
 The span stands almost 50 feet above the Panj's typical high water, which means the channel below will be navigable for ferries and other small craft. 
 It was also designed to withstand a severe earthquake and to handle military traffic, said Brian Walls, an engineer from the Army Corps of Engineers who is supervising the construction. ''We don't build bridges any stronger than the standards for this,'' he said.
 In all, the project will cost more than $52 million. American officials described the investment as a long-term bet, not just to help stabilize northern Afghanistan, but to promote larger ideas of regional cooperation and business collaboration.
 ''I think it is going to be an organic thing that is finally going to come together,'' Ms. Horst said. ''It is not going to come with a boom, but one day these countries will be used to trading together.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A map of Central Asia with an article on Saturday about the construction of a bridge linking Tajikistan and Afghanistan misidentified the country shown in the lower left. It is Iran, not Azerbaijan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The bridge, being built by an Italian company, will open a remote area long caught in a political stalemate between the Soviets and the south.
 An American-backed bridge linking Tajikistan with Afghanistan is nearing completion, offering the promise of economic development. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times) Map of Tajikistan highlighting Nizhny Panj: Nizhny Panj plans to become a traffic hub for Central Asia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); RIVERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); ARMIES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SMUGGLING (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RELIGION (68%); ENGINEERING (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CENTRAL ASIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOUTH CENTRAL ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



22 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Disarray

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Jihadist Groups Fill a Palestinian Power Vacuum'' (front page, May 31): 
We have constantly heard the mantra that Palestinian desperation is pushing Palestinians toward extremism and that the solution is to empower moderates by making concessions. 
 But the concessions are only viewed as weakness by the extremists who gain more power, while the moderates, who frequently are engaged in terror, whine for more concessions. 
 If Palestinians are desperate, it is time for them to look in the mirror and ask why their own media promote violence, why their society has no due process, and why their educational system continues to teach hate. 
 They need to ponder why a group of people that receives more aid per person than any group on earth continues to have no credible economic system or rule of law. 
 If jihadists are gaining power, it is not the fault of the West or Israel. The root cause of the conflict is accountability Jonathan D. Reich Lakeland, Fla., May 31, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DUE PROCESS (68%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (72%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (73%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



23 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Bombers Thwart Efforts To Shield G.I.'s

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1 

 BODY:
American commanders are expressing frustration at the increasing death toll in Iraq caused by makeshift explosives, which have killed 80 percent of the Americans who died in combat over the last three months, despite the billions of dollars being spent to fight the threat.
 The proportion of American deaths caused by explosives has sharply increased, even as the Pentagon has made a major effort to defend the troops with armored vehicles, to detect or disarm the weapons, and to attack the bomb-making cells and those who finance them. 
 The bombs are known as improvised explosive devices, or I.E.D.'s, and the Pentagon has formed a ''Joint I.E.D. Defeat Organization'' to combat the users. But in an interview on Friday, the director of that group said he recognized that the threat could not truly be defeated. 
 ''It can be mitigated, minimized, made into a nuisance,'' said the director, Gen. Montgomery C. Meigs, a retired Army officer who took over the project in December 2005. ''This is a very tough problem.'' 
 The total of American deaths in April and May was the highest of any two-month period since the war began, and the 80 percent ratio caused by makeshift explosives is higher than it has ever been, up from 50 percent in January. 
 The increase coincided with the more aggressive operations being mounted by American troops in Iraq as part of the stepped-up campaign that President Bush ordered in January. 
 Pentagon statistics released Friday showed that May was the third deadliest month of the war in Iraq. The official combat toll stood at 117 late Friday, but some deaths from the final days of the month will not be included until next of kin are notified, officials said. 
 From the 50 percent rate for combat deaths in January, which represented a dip in the long-term trend, the share caused by explosives climbed to 59 percent in February and an average of about 80 percent for March, April and May. 
 Pentagon officials said they did not compute such monthly statistics before this year, but estimated that improvised explosive devices were responsible for about 70 percent of the overall combat deaths since the devices first appeared on the battlefield of Iraq in 2003. 
 The military plans to spend more than $4 billion to combat explosives this year, after spending about $5 billion over the three previous years. The spending has led to the deployment of better-armored vehicles to protect soldiers and new technology to detect and defuse the bombs, but commanders and Pentagon officials say their efforts have produced no more than temporary gains.
 ''I do believe that we are instinctively prone to look for technological solutions,'' said one senior Pentagon official. ''That's the way we are wired, and that's the American tradition. 
 ''But bigger armor, more high-tech detectors and jammers will only take you so far. We never will solve the problem until we can get better intelligence and can break up these I.E.D. cells. And that will require changing the attitudes of the local population toward these explosions and those responsible for them. The Iraqis will have to help us root out the people involved.''
 Across Iraq and Afghanistan, explosives are in ample supply. Improvised bombs can be detonated at a distance by a variety of off-the-shelf systems, some as simple as a wire attached to a doorbell and some controlled by radio or cell phone. 
 The United States has accused Iran of assisting Shiite insurgents in Iraq with more advanced designs that are able to penetrate even some armored vehicles. 
 And there is a ready supply of unemployed or angry men willing to plant the devices.
 ''The problem will not subside even when there is a stable situation of some kind reached in either Iraq or Afghanistan,'' General Meigs said. ''This is going to be around. This is too easy for an insurgent.''
 The anti-I.E.D. organization devoted 78 percent of its budget in the current fiscal year, ending Sept. 30, to defeating the explosives, with 13 percent of the money going to attack bombing networks and 9 percent to training the force. 
 In an acknowledgment that the priority should be ''developing the kind of intelligence that is needed to go after these folks,'' General Meigs said, the share of money in the next fiscal year devoted to attacking the network would rise to 31 percent, while 62 percent of the budget would be reserved for detecting and defusing the bombs.
 A far greater number of the bombs are found and cleared today, or prove to be duds, than are effective in attacks. For security reasons, the organization does not release the total number of bomb attacks in Iraq, but General Meigs said bombers had to plant six times as many of the devices for each casualty than when the improvised explosives first appeared. 
 ''But that is not a satisfactory solution in our view, nor will it be in the view of soldiers and marines, nor will it be in the view of the families that support them,'' he said. ''You are not going to avoid casualties. It is our job to help commanders in the field to minimize them to the absolutely greatest extent possible.''
 Cracking into the bomb-making cells is difficult, and not only because they are far smaller and far more decentralized than traditional military targets of American intelligence.
 ''The societal pattern in Oruzgan Province in Afghanistan is very different than in Diyala Province in Iraq,'' General Meigs said. ''So is the social structure. The motivations and ideology are different.''
 In Iraq, those assessing the threat divide their adversaries into three basic camps. 
 Those associated with Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia strive for the spectacular bombing, of a mosque, government building or marketplace, in order to generate hostility and headlines. 
 Those placed by Shiite forces are increasingly sophisticated, using technology the United States says is from Iran and can puncture armored vehicles. The Sunni-based insurgents plants bombs of a more homemade variety, but still deadly. 

GRAPHIC: Chart Military deaths from hostile causes in Iraq through May 31 of each year '04: 272 '05: 236 '06: 236 '07: 421 298 killed by improvised explosive devices (pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARMIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



24 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Greenhouse Gas Plan Throws Europe Off Guard

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 1 

 BODY:
For six years, Europeans have pleaded with President Bush to seize the initiative in the campaign against global warming. Now that he has, many here are even more frustrated.
 Mr. Bush's unexpected announcement Thursday that the United States would gather the world's largest emitters of greenhouse gases to seek a long-term global reduction in emissions has thrown Washington's European allies, particularly Germany, off balance.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany will be host next week to the Group of 8 meeting with the leaders of the world's richest nations, at which she plans to push for much the same goal as Mr. Bush, although her plan would require a sharp reduction in emissions. Mr. Bush's vaguely worded proposal -- which has so far steered clear of such caps -- has muddied what had been shaping up as a black-and-white showdown between Europe and the United States. 
 Mrs. Merkel's environmental minister, Sigmar Gabriel, warned that Mr. Bush's plan might prove to be a ''Trojan horse,'' impeding her efforts to reach an agreement on an ambitious plan to decrease emissions, while defusing criticism that the United States is a hurdle to the broader climate effort.
 The news media was notably skeptical. ''Bush torpedoes Merkel's climate plans,'' said a representative headline in the German financial paper Handelsblatt.
 But for Mrs. Merkel's chief climate advisor, Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, Mr. Bush's plan was a welcome sign that the United States had re-engaged in the debate, even if he disagreed with its approach. 
 ''It's clearly an indication that the Bush administration wants to contribute to solving the problem,'' Mr. Schellnhuber said in an interview. ''It's a steep learning curve, and when you are on a learning curve, you may not come up with the right solution the first time.''
 Mrs. Merkel, supported by Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and other European leaders, wants to set a global target to cut emissions 50 percent from 1990 levels by 2050. In a draft communique for the Group of 8 meeting, German negotiators also propose increasing energy efficiency 20 percent by 2020.
 The Bush administration favors a piecemeal approach, in which countries would set their own targets for the next 10 to 20 years to reduce emissions based on their economic circumstances. A long-term ''aspirational'' global target, decades further out, would be sought based on what countries agreed would be the best way to limit climate risks.
 Mr. Schellnhuber, who played a role in developing the Kyoto Protocol, said he presented a proposal not unlike Mr. Bush's to Mrs. Merkel several months ago as a ''Plan B,'' if she was not able to rally support for a more ambitious ''Plan A.''
 ''I said to the chancellor, 'If we cannot get a concrete, top-down approach, the second-best solution is a bottom-up approach, with midterm commitments by countries,' '' he said. ''But you need a system for adding this up, and orienting it to a larger goal that makes sense.''
 Negotiators for the White House wrote last week that the German draft proposal ''crosses multiple 'red lines' of what we simply cannot agree to,'' adding, ''We have tried to 'tread lightly,' but there is only so far we can go, given our fundamental opposition to the German position.''
 That rebuff angered German diplomats, stiffening their resolve to push for concrete emissions reductions regardless of whether they provoked a clash with the United States or spoiled the mood at Heiligendamm, the Baltic Sea resort where the conference is to be held.
 ''The U.S. and Europe were like two cars racing toward each other in a game of chicken,'' Mr. Schellnhuber said.
 Now, he said, there might be room for compromise, though he acknowledged the gulf was still wide. Mrs. Merkel, who welcomed Mr. Bush's speech as an ''important statement,'' nevertheless gave no indication that she was willing to yield on her goal of a 50 percent cut in emissions.
 A spokesman for Mrs. Merkel, Ulrich Wilhelm, said, ''I think we can say at this stage that it's going to be tough, that we face very intense negotiations.'' Other German officials, including the government's chief negotiator, Bernd Pfaffenbach, said the talks could collapse altogether.
 That would be a rare setback for Mrs. Merkel, who has made climate change the centerpiece of Germany's dual presidency of the Group of 8 and the European Union. In March, she won a landmark agreement that set a binding target for use of renewable energy in Europe.
 A deadlock would suit critics of the Bush administration, who say their greatest fear is that Europe will water down its targets or accept bland diplomatic language as a substitute.
 ''The G-8 text is the litmus test,'' said Stephan Singer, head of climate policy at WWF, formerly known as the World Wildlife Fund, in Brussels. 
 Critics also contend that Mr. Bush's proposal to seek a global deal by the end of 2008 would undermine the role of the United Nations as the main forum for climate negotiations, including the talks that led to the Kyoto Protocol, which required participating industrialized nations to reduce emissions. Convening the largest emitters in the United States would create a parallel round of talks, they said. 
 ''Our first point is that this must happen within the context of the U.N.,'' said Michael Muller , Germany's deputy environmental minister. ''Our second point is that to wait until 2008 is too long.''
 Senior White House officials denied Friday that there was any intent to undermine United Nations-sponsored talks under the original climate treaty, the Framework Convention on Climate Change, or the addendum called the Kyoto Protocol. (Under President Clinton, the United States signed that protocol, but it was never ratified and was rejected by Mr. Bush.)
 ''We fully expect that these discussions will feed into the U.N. process,'' said James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality.
 He said that the end result could be part of a new protocol to succeed the Kyoto pact after its terms expire in 2012 or a set of separate nonbinding policies, which is another option allowed under the convention. 
 ''People should take a look, give us the benefit of a doubt,'' he said. ''It's the outcome that people should pay the most attention to.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers near Heiligendamm, Germany, photographed signs put up by an antiglobalization group protesting the Group of 8 conference. (Photo by Jens Meyer/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



25 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Governor Proposes Free Community Colleges

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: BOSTON, June 1 

 BODY:
Community colleges in Massachusetts would be free to all students within 10 years under a proposal by Gov. Deval Patrick.
 The plan would make Massachusetts the only state with no-cost community college. California's system was free until 1984.
 The plan is part of a broader 10-year proposal Mr. Patrick, a Democrat, unveiled Friday in a commencement address at the University of Massachusetts Boston. It calls for universal prekindergarten, full-day kindergarten and extending the school day and school year. 
 Every student's education would extend two years beyond high school, either through vocational training or college.
 ''There's no other state that has universal free tuition,'' said Jim Hermes, a senior legislative associate with the American Association of Community Colleges. ''It would be a very significant move, given the needs of the workforce.''
 Mr. Patrick said problems in the state's system included gaps in minority achievement and students who were ill-prepared for college and the workforce. The state has more than 20,000 unfilled jobs requiring applicants with at least an associate's degree.
 ''For centuries, we have been a leader in education because our forebears appreciated that education was about advancing civilization and securing our future,'' Mr. Patrick said, adding: ''If we rest on our laurels today, if we fail to take account of the changes upon us in the state and in the world, then catastrophe will befall us. And at unspeakable cost.''
 Mr. Patrick said he would appoint a committee of business, education, political and community leaders to figure out how to carry out his proposals and how much they would cost. Some analysts put the cost of all the education changes at $1 billion a year, and there is skepticism about whether and how the state could afford such change. But aides to Mr. Patrick said cost estimates were meaningless before details were worked out. Most of the proposed changes would require legislative approval.
 Tuition and fees at the state's 15 community colleges cost an estimated $56 million to $70 million a year, said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonpartisan economic research group. Jan Motta, executive director of Massachusetts Community Colleges, said the average student paid slightly more than $3,000 a year, nearly $1,000 more than the national average.
 Ms. Motta said that as welcome as free tuition would be, especially for a community college system long treated as subordinate to Massachusetts' better-known private and state colleges, such a change would require other measures.
 ''We have to be looking at how do we accommodate the students and where is the classroom space and the faculty,'' she said.
 Kay M. McClenney, director of the annual Community College Survey of Student Engagement, based at the University of Texas at Austin, said the proposal raised other questions, too.
 ''Tuition and fees come nowhere close to addressing the cost of college, particularly for students from low-income backgrounds, particularly for students from places like California and Massachusetts where the cost of living is so high and students are often holding at least one and sometimes two or three jobs,'' Professor McClenney said. ''Would that cause me to say it's a bad idea? No.''
 But, she suggested it might make sense to provide more assistance to poorer students and charge modest fees for those who can afford it.
 ''Should we be making community college free for everyone,'' she said, ''or should we be making community college free for those who most need it?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY COLLEGES (56%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



26 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Billionaires And Bake Sales

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan, a former Seattle correspondent for The Times and the author of ''The Worst Hard Time,'' is a guest columnist.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Following Bill Gates over the years has been like watching Pete Townshend go from smashing his guitar with The Who to the aging master who just wants world peace and a complex string arrangement of ''Tommy.'' He was the high-voiced bully boy of Microsoft, snarling at people with less intellectual bandwidth, a Napoleon Dynamite with money -- idiots!
 But all of that changed when Mr. Gates and his wife, Melinda, decided to get serious about giving away their money, a net worth greater than the gross domestic product of more than half of the nations of the world. He brought his laser focus to ending malaria, the spread of infectious diseases, global inequity, computer illiteracy. This from a man whose name was Google-bombed with Satan. 
 Over time, the Gates Foundation has become not just an extraordinary force for change, but something of a shadow State Department as well, attracting hundreds of world leaders to the city on Puget Sound. In places, the foundation is more effective, and certainly more beloved and influential, than the current denizens of Foggy Bottom in the other Washington. 
 So, when President Hu Jintao of China came to the U.S. last year, he was feted at a grand dinner in the Gates' home on Lake Washington. In the Capitol, Mr. Hu was snubbed by President Bush with a quickie lunch and a gaffe-prone reception complete with heckler -- typical incompetence.
 Now Mr. Gates wants to influence the upcoming presidential election. But his efforts to date show that he still has much to learn about getting American politicians to pay attention. And his latest venture is a prime example of just how nonresponsive our political system is to issues that may be widely supported by the public, but barely rate with the candidates. 
 Mr. Gates and Eli Broad, a fellow billionaire, said they will spend $60 million in an effort to get the candidates to talk about: schools! They have assembled a bipartisan group to point out such inconvenient facts as the million students who drop out of American high schools every year, or that the U.S. ranks near the bottom of industrialized nations in functional understanding of math and science. 
 The campaign could use a little remedial schooling. Three of the Republican candidates don't even believe in evolution. Don't know much about history, don't know much biology.
 By any measure, $60 million is no small change. It is far more than the National Rifle Association or the National Education Association -- two vaunted, entrenched interest groups -- spent in the 2004 campaign. And it is nearly triple what it cost to Swift Boat John Kerry's war record, an effective if dishonest campaign.
 Most special interest groups can rally members and donate cash to politicians. The education group, called Strong American Schools, cannot support individual candidates or legislation, by the rules of their organization. Thus, the world's richest man has little leverage in a wide-open presidential campaign. 
 At the early debates, the Gates' group took out ads and held press conferences. But what did it get them? The candidates barely mentioned education, and when they did it was couched in the tired talking points tailored to their interest groups -- vouchers and charter schools for Republicans, the untouchable teachers' union for Democrats. 
 Education is such an orphan issue that Senator John McCain doesn't even mention it on his Web site. If only Mr. Gates wanted to strip away environmental protections or weaken consumer laws -- that would get the candidates' attention. Witness the timber industry hacks who now guide the Forest Service after a decade of Republican contributions, or the bankers who bought a new bankruptcy law that makes it harder for poor people to stay out of credit card hell. 
 ''We're trying to create a Sputnik moment, to get people to see that our very economic future is at stake,'' said Mr. Broad, a lifelong Democrat who says the party is too beholden to the teachers' union. 
 To be fair, the new campaign is just getting started, and it may yet be split off into a group that has the legal flexibility to rate the candidates -- which may be the more effective way to go. 
 Tomorrow, when Democratic candidates assemble for yet another debate, it is unlikely they will answer the hard questions that Mr. Gates is asking. But if he used that $60 million more directly, with muscle, the candidates would talk and talk and talk. Otherwise, it's all apple pie at an empty bake sale. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (70%); MALARIA (69%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); RANKINGS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HU JINTAO (70%); ELI BROAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



27 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Gates, in Fresh Tone for U.S., Offers to Work With China's Military to 'Build Trust Over Time'

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Saturday, June 2 

 BODY:
Nearly two years to the day after his predecessor bluntly criticized China's rapid military buildup, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates struck a conciliatory tone toward Beijing on Saturday, saying the United States and China had the opportunity to ''build trust over time.''
 During a speech delivered from the same podium where Donald H. Rumsfeld said in 2005 that China's growing arsenal of ships, missiles and submarines threatened Asia's security balance, Mr. Gates steered away from a direct challenge to China about its military modernization and said he was hopeful about future dealings between the countries. 
''I believe there is reason to be optimistic about the U.S.-China relationship,'' Mr. Gates said at an annual gathering here of defense ministers from the Pacific region.
 Mr. Gates briefly raised concerns that China's actual defense spending appeared to far outpace its publicly stated military budget. But the speech and comments by Pentagon officials in Singapore make it clear that the Pentagon -- which has long taken a hawkish view toward China's intentions -- is hoping to smooth the relationship between the powers. 
 The Bush administration has been trying in recent months to prevent Congress from imposing tough trade restrictions on China. At the same time, the White House has stepped up economic pressure on Beijing, announcing a policy that could lead to steep tariffs on some goods and its intention to bring China before the World Trade Organization over piracy concerns and China's subsidies of its export industries. 
 The tone of Mr. Gates's speech, which focused on America's enduring commitment to its Asian allies, is yet another example of what seems a studied attempt by Mr. Gates to present himself in sharp contrast to Mr. Rumsfeld, whose trips abroad often provoked controversy and criticism from America's allies. 
 At a February conference in Munich, Mr. Gates took a jab at Mr. Rumsfeld's famous distinction between ''old'' and ''new'' Europe, saying that such characterizations ''belong in the past.'' 
 On Saturday, he also made it clear he believed that the best way to improve America's relations with China was for the two powers to have a constant dialogue -- keeping the antagonism to a minimum. During a question and answer session after the speech, Mr. Gates said that America and China could follow the example of the waning years of the cold war, when negotiations between the United States and Soviet Union brought the countries closer.
 During Mr. Rumsfeld's remarks here two years ago, he said that no ''candid discussion of China'' could ignore the rapid military buildup, and said that ''since no nation threatens China, one wonders: why this growing investment?'' The speech created a sensation at the conference and back in the United States.
 Defense Department officials said that since the Rumsfeld speech, China's government had taken steps to be more open in explaining the intentions behind its military buildup.
 Last week, the Pentagon unveiled its annual report on Chinese military power that documented the People's Liberation Army's relentless efforts to modernize its arsenal, which the United States fears could be used to strike American bases and ships in the Pacific. 
 The report also warned that China was improving its ability to conduct space warfare, demonstrated by its anti-satellite missile test in January, and that China was relocating long-range ballistic missiles from underground silos to land-based mobile launchers and submarines. 
 But Pentagon officials traveling with Mr. Gates said they did not intend to focus on that report during the two-day conference here.
 ''We don't see any reason in getting bogged down in a discussion of that report,'' said a senior defense official traveling with Mr. Gates, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
 Instead, defense officials said they would focus on countering a growing perception that the United States, engaged in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, had neither the capability nor the desire to remain engaged in Asia. 
 The opposite is true, Mr. Gates said. ''We are an Asian power with significant and longterm political, economic and security interests,'' he said Saturday. ''Our commitments elsewhere notwithstanding, we will fulfill our commitments in Asia.''
 Mr. Gates also used the speech to focus on the struggles of central Asian republics, urging his counterparts at the conference to focus on economic development and military assistance as a way to battle terrorist and drug networks in the region.
 He said that new initiatives in central Asia ''need not be competitive, but rather complementary'' with efforts by Russia and China to bolster security in the region. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, center, in Singapore yesterday with his counterparts, including Khalifa bin Ahmad al-Khalifa, of Bahrain. (Photo by Wong Maye-E/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SINGAPORE (93%); ASIA (93%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



28 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7 Makeshift Bombs Sow Rising Frustration in Iraq American commanders are expressing frustration at the increasing death toll in Iraq caused by makeshift explosives, which have killed 80 percent of the American forces who died in combat in the past three months, despite the billions of dollars being spent to combat the threat. A1 The number of unidentified corpses discovered in Baghdad soared more than 70 percent during May, according to the Iraqi Interior Ministry. A6 Sudan Aid Group in Upheaval Even with the seeming triumph of helping attain President Bush's new sanctions against Sudan, the Save Darfur Coalition, which helped bring the conflict to the world's attention, is in upheaval. A5 18 Killed in Clashes in Lebanon Lebanon's army moved closer to a Palestinian refugee camp where a group of militants has been hiding, seizing new ground in a fight that left 18 dead. 
 A7 Video of Abducted Journalist For the first time since his abduction, a British reporter kidnapped in Gaza on March 12 was shown in a video released to an Islamic militant Web site. A7 Rice Tries to Ease Fears on Iran Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sought to minimize any sense of division within the Bush administration over Iran after the head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency warned against what he called the ''new crazies'' pushing for military action against Tehran. A5 NATIONAL A8-11 Toothpaste From ChinaIs Said to Contain Poison Consumers were advised to discard all toothpaste made in China after federal health officials said they found Chinese-made toothpaste containing a poison used in antifreeze in three locations -- Miami, the Port of Los Angeles and Puerto Rico. A1 New Rules on Student Loans The federal Education Department released proposed rules that would set new standards for universities and ban lenders' marketing practices that have resulted, in some cases, in loan company payoffs to university officials. A1 Close Bush Aide to Step Down Dan Bartlett, President Bush's longest-serving aide and one of his closest confidantes, said he was leaving the administration this summer, the latest departure in what has been a shrinking of President Bush's inner circle. A10 Kevorkian Leaves Prison Jack Kevorkian, the former pathologist who brought the debate over physician assisted suicide into the national spotlight a decade ago saying he had helped 130 terminally ill people in their deaths, stepped out of a Michigan prison having pledged not to assist anyone else. A8 Police Less Driven by Bias In making snap decisions about whether to shoot a potentially armed suspect, police officers are far less influenced by racial bias than students or community members forced to make the same decision, a large study has found. A8 NEW YORK/REGION B1-5 Spitzer Pressing for Plan To Give Paid Family Leave Gov. Eliot Spitzer is pushing to win legislative backing for a plan that would give workers in New York State paid leave to care for newborn children or seriously ill family members. B1 Campaign Finance Limits The New York City Council is poised to introduce some of the most sweeping campaign finance restrictions in the country, aimed at limiting the influence of contractors, lobbyists, developers and others who do business with the city. B3 Religion Journal B5 BUSINESS DAY C1-9 U.S. Economy on the Rise The economy appears to have shaken out of its slumber. In May, employers added nearly twice as many jobs as they did in April. C1 Meeting on Dow Jones Bid The decision to meet with the News Corporation could be a pivotal moment in the history of Dow Jones & Company and the Bancroft family, which has controlled it for more than a century. The meeting will take place Monday. C1 Sex Industry Declines The Internet was supposed to be a boon for the pornography industry, with wider distribution and social acceptance increasing sales. Now the business is in decline -- and the Internet is being held responsible. A1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A12-13 Editorials: Budget tough talk; hot enough in here?; a cyberblockade in Estonia; Francis X. Clines on getting away to the country. Columns: Bob Herbert and Timothy Egan. Bridge B14 Crossword B14 Obituaries C10 TV Listings B15 Weather A14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATH & DYING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); JOURNALISM (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); WRITERS (67%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); PATHOLOGY (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); RELIGION (52%); SUICIDE (50%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (75%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SUDAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



29 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 889 words

PERSON: Warren M. Anderson 

HEADLINE: Warren Anderson, Albany G.O.P Leader, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Warren M. Anderson, a longtime Republican leader in the New York State Senate who helped to bail New York City out of its fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s, died yesterday at Wilson Regional Medical Center in Johnson City, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Dickinson.
 The cause of death was heart failure, said James W. Orband, managing partner of Hinman, Howard & Kattell, the Binghamton law firm where Mr. Anderson became a partner in 1950. 
During his 36 years in the State Senate, from 1953 to 1988, Mr. Anderson worked with six governors, from Thomas E. Dewey to Mario M. Cuomo, and was the majority leader for 16 years. The legislation for which he was arguably best known was the state's Tuition Assistance Program, an accomplishment cited yesterday by the current Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat.
 ''He was a strong advocate for tax relief, increased government accountability and greater state investment in schools,'' Mr. Bruno said in a statement. 
 In a separate statement, Mr. Silver said, ''Warren Anderson helped guide this state through a difficult period of economic and social upheaval.'' 
 Along with Gov. Hugh L. Carey and the Democratic Assembly speaker Stanley Steingut, Mr. Anderson was a key member of the troika that reached a compromise to slowly lift New York City out of the fiscal crisis that took it to near-bankruptcy in 1975. 
 The state authorized the creation of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was able to raise money by issuing debt backed by state-controlled funds. Union-controlled pension funds agreed to purchase much of that debt in exchange for reducing the extensive layoffs that the city had ordered to balance its books. 
 Working with another Democratic Assembly speaker, Stanley Fink, Mr. Anderson also helped to shepherd a large increase in state aid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in the early 1980s -- an effort that paved the way for vast improvements in subway service over the subsequent two decades. 
 ''Trim, gray-haired, invariably well tailored, except for the last day of the Legislative session when he dons a garish plaid, Senator Anderson does not practice the back-slapping brand of politics,'' The New York Times said in 1975. ''He is soft-spoken and polite even in combat.''
 (The ''garish plaid'' referred to an eccentric tradition for which Mr. Anderson was renowned: donning loud and tacky sports coats to signal the end of each Senate session.)
 Warren Mattice Anderson was born on Oct. 16, 1915, in Bainbridge, N.Y. He attended Broome County public schools and graduated from Colgate University. After graduating from Albany Law School in 1940, Mr. Anderson was an assistant county attorney in Broome County, served in the Army in World War II and then joined the firm Hinman, Howard & Kattell in 1949. He was elected to the Senate in 1952, to a seat that had been held by his father, Floyd E. Anderson, who became a State Supreme Court justice. 
 A protege of a longtime Senate majority leader, Earl W. Brydges, Warren Anderson was named chairman of the Senate's most powerful body, the Finance Committee, in 1965. When Mr. Brydges retired in 1972, he was elected majority leader.
 In an editorial after the election, The Times described him as a ''moderately conservative Republican'' who was seen by his colleagues as ''a thoroughly competent, sympathetic and responsible lawmaker.''
 At the time, Albany was generally characterized by a tradition of Legislative deference, even subservience, to the governor -- a tradition that deepened during Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's long tenure, from 1959 to 1973.
 In 1974, amid the crushing defeats of Republicans during the fallout from the Watergate scandal, the Democrats captured the State Assembly and Mr. Carey, a Democratic congressman, was elected governor. Mr. Anderson suddenly found himself the state's most important Republican. In 1977, he considered challenging Mr. Carey, but lack of party support led him to withdraw -- a long-term disappointment.
 Mr. Anderson formed a collaborative relationship with Mr. Steingut, the new Assembly speaker, but became especially close to Mr. Steingut's successor, Mr. Fink, who was speaker from 1979 to 1986. 
 Mr. Anderson, quiet, reserved and dignified, and Mr. Fink, loud, profane and overbearing, and a generation younger, developed a close relationship, almost like that of father and son. In 1997, when Mr. Anderson learned of Mr. Fink's death, he burst into tears.
 Mr. Anderson was not immune to pork-barrel politics: He secured money for a stretch of Interstate 88, connecting Binghamton and Albany, that was jokingly known as ''Warren M. Anderson Driveway.'' (It was later officially named the Warren M. Anderson Expressway.) Mr. Anderson announced his retirement from the State Senate in 1988; Ralph J. Marino, a Republican from Long Island, replaced him as majority leader, and Mr. Anderson returned to full-time law practice. 
 Mr. Anderson's first wife, Eleanor, died in 1996. He is survived by his second wife, the former Ruth W. Bennett, whom he married in 2001; by four sons from his first marriage, W. David, of Darien, Conn.; Lawrence C., of Castle Creek, N.Y.; Richard S., of Hillcrest, N.Y.; and Thomas B., of Marblehead, Mass.; and seven grandchildren. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Warren M. Anderson at the Capitol with two aides. (Photo by William Sauro/The New York Times, 1985) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); TUITION FEES (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

COMPANY: HINMAN HOWARD & KATTELL LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



30 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Surging Jobs Seen as Sign Of Rebound

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; David Leonhardt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The American economy appears to have shaken out of its slumber.
 In May, employers added nearly twice as many jobs as they did in April, and the manufacturing sector grew at its fastest rate in more than a year. Consumer confidence also turned upward.
Together, the new data helped ease fears that the worst slump in more than four years would drag on. But the longevity of this rebound depends, in large part, on whether household incomes and spending by businesses and consumers will grow enough to reduce the drag from the struggling housing market. 
 ''The speed at which we recover is still very much in doubt,'' said Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist with Bank of America. ''But I think it's fair to say that recovery is the operative word.''
 The Labor Department said yesterday in its monthly survey of national employment that 157,000 jobs were created last month, compared with 80,000 in April.
 At the same time, the unemployment rate held steady at 4.5 percent.
 The report found not only that businesses had hired more employees in May, but that they paid workers more as well. Hourly wages for workers rose 3.8 percent over the last 12 months.
 Still, with oil prices surging, wage gains have trailed inflation in recent months, causing workers to take an effective pay cut.
 Hourly wages for the rank and file -- who make up about four-fifths of the work force -- rose 6 cents in May, to $17.30. But this increase has been swallowed by inflation, according to economists' projections of inflation rates for May.
 After peaking in February at an inflation-adjusted $17.44, the real average hourly wage has begun falling again, as it did from 2003 to 2005. In fact, the current economic expansion, which began in late 2001, has had some of the weakest wage growth of any modern expansion. In December 2001, the average real hourly wage for workers was $17.24.
 Stagnant wage growth has not stopped consumers from spending, and that spending is helping to keep the labor market going strong, economists said.
 ''I'm hard pressed to see where labor demand is coming from right now, but the obvious place to look is consumer spending,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. ''Granted, it's down from former Elysian heights, but it's percolating along.''
 The auto industry reported yesterday that sales in May grew as General Motors, Toyota and Nissan all posted healthy gains. And new statistics from the Commerce Department showed that personal spending rose 0.5 percent in April, compared with a 0.4 percent rise in March.
 Personal income, however, dipped 0.1 percent after rising 0.8 percent in March.
 Consumer confidence also rebounded in May, from an eight-month low, according to the University of Michigan's closely watched index.
 But if consumer spending weakens under the weight of rising gasoline prices and falling property values, the health of the job market and the economy as a whole could be in jeopardy.
 ''The labor market is not sort of chugging along independently,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for Global Insight. ''If housing turns down more steeply and spending starts to weaken, then the labor market will start to weaken.''
 Job creation so far this year has been on a seesawing path, with a month of healthy growth followed by one of mediocre growth. Without a clear trend either up or down in the job market, the Federal Reserve will be less inclined to move the benchmark interest rate from 5.25 percent, where it has been for the last year.
 ''We're not fading,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG. ''But there's nothing booming about these numbers. And there's nothing here that suggests the Fed will do anything but dust off old speeches.''
 A measure of inflation that the Fed monitors closely grew at a slower rate in April, new numbers showed yesterday. Core consumer prices, which exclude food and energy costs, rose 2 percent since last April. While that is within the Fed's preferred inflation range of 1 to 2 percent, central bankers are not likely to shift policy on the basis of one month of data.
 Last month, there were some signs that businesses were trimming their payrolls to reckon with falling sales. Retailers, which reported one of the their worst monthly performances in recent memory in May, eliminated 4,900 jobs last month. Department stores accounted for almost all of that.
 Residential builders and contractors continued to shed workers -- some 1,300 in all -- which offset hiring by nonresidential contractors. 
 But the Labor Department's survey of households suggested that the construction workers were actually worse off. The unemployment rate for the industry climbed to 6.9 percent, compared with 6.6 percent a year earlier. That was the highest rate of unemployment for any industry sector the government measured last month.
 Manufacturers reduced their payrolls by another 19,000 last month. All the downsizing in American factories -- 79,000 so far this year, seasonally adjusted -- seems to have had some benefit after a long industrywide slump. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said that manufacturing activity rose in May to the highest level since April last year.
 Employment gains in sectors like health care, finance and hospitality were more than enough to make up for job losses elsewhere. Hiring was especially brisk in bars and restaurants, which added 34,500 new workers. Professional and technical services businesses, which include a wide range of professions from architects to accountants to computer engineers, hired 27,000. The health care sector grew by 35,800. Finance and insurance businesses added 6,300; local and state governments gained 22,000. 
 The amount of time Americans spent registered as unemployed fell in May to a median of 8.3 weeks, from 8.7 weeks in April.
 The number of people unemployed long term -- 27 weeks or more, fell to 1.12 million, from 1.19 million.
 An alternate unemployment rate published by the Labor Department -- one that includes workers who would like to work but have stopped looking for a job, as well as those working part time because they cannot find full-time work -- was unchanged at 8.2 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jobs, like those of these Con Ed workers in New York, were more available in May, when 157,000 people were added to payrolls nationwide. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)(pg. C4) Chart: ''The Labor Picture in May'' Unemployment BY DEMOGRAPHICS White MAY: 3.9% 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2 Black MAY: 8.5 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4 Hispanic* MAY: 5.8 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.8 Asian MAY: 2.9** 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 Teenagers (16-19) MAY: 15.7 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.6 DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (In weeks) Average MAY: 16.7 1-MONTH CHANGE: -2.3% 1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.3% Median MAY: 8.3 1-MONTH CHANGE: -4.6 1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.4 SHARE OF POPULATION Employed MAY: 63.0% 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 Labor force (workers and unemployed) MAY: 66.0 1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch. 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions) Working part time, but want full-time work MAY: 4.5 1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.9% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +7.1% People who currently want a job*** MAY: 5.6%** 1-MONTH CHANGE: +18.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: +7.7 UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL Less than high school MAY: 6.7% 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.5 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2 High school MAY: 4.5 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.4 1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1 Some college MAY: 3.4 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3 Bachelor's or higher MAY: 2.0 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1 Graph tracks unemployment since June 2006. Current unemployment rate: 4.5 percent. Employment AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS Rank-and-file workers MAY: $586.50 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.6% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +4.1% BY TYPE OF WORK (In millions) Nonfarm MAY: 137.8 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1% 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4% Goods MAY: 22.4 1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1 1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7 Services MAY: 115.4 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2 1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8 Agriculture MAY: 2.1 1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.3 1-YEAR CHANGE: -4.1 Graph tracks employment rates (nonfarm payroll, 12-month change) Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted. *Hispanics can be of any race. **Not seasonally adjusted. ***People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



31 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: All Tapped Out, or Maybe Not

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
ARE we heading for a recession?
 ''The U.S. consumer has been on a 15-year run, the longest streak on record. Now, the world's biggest spender is showing signs of fatigue,'' Bloomberg Markets reports.
Consumer spending was up just 3.2 percent last year and has slowed since 2004, the magazine noted, adding that this is troublesome as consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the gross domestic product. 
 ''History shows that a slowdown in spending coupled with weakness in other parts of the economy can trigger a recession,'' Shobhana Chandra wrote. ''That's what happened in 2001.'' ON THE OTHER HAND -- Slowing real estate sales coupled with the subprime mortgage mess are two of the reasons some people say a recession is nigh.
 Those people are wrong, Kiplinger's writes.
 The magazine notes that only 1 percent of home mortgages are in foreclosure, ''compared with a post-recession peak of 1.5 percent.''
 For another, the housing market accounts for just ''8 percent to 10 percent of all economic activity, and other parts of the nation's economic engine appear to be humming nicely.'' REAL ESTATES -- The following is courtesy of Harper's:
 At least 17,000 copies of ''Flipping Homes for Dummies'' have been sold since its publication last year.
 ''Percentage of C.E.O.'s of S.& P. 500 companies whose homes are at least 10,000 square feet or sit on more than 10 acres: 13 percent.''
 The chances that last year a homeowner had negative equity in the property, that is, owed more than the home's value: 1 in 6. NO MONEY DOWN -- Citing figures provided by the National Association of Realtors, Home reports ''43 percent of first-time home buyers bought their house without a down payment in 2006.'' IS INEQUALITY GOOD? -- The growing income disparity among Americans can be viewed as a good thing, two professors at the University of Chicago argue in The American. 
 Gary S. Becker, who won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1992, and Kevin M. Murphy write that the rising inequality has ''accompanied a rise in the payoff to education and other skills.''
 In 1980, someone with a college degree earned 30 percent more than a high school graduate. Today, there is about a 70 percent difference, and ''the premium for having a graduate degree increased from roughly 50 percent in 1980 to well over 100 percent today,'' they write. ''The labor market is placing a greater emphasis on education, dispensing rapidly rising rewards to those who stay in school the longest.'' 
 That isn't surprising, they say, given the increasing demand for educated and skilled workers. And the payoff for that increased demand is clear.
 ''Growth in the education level of the population has been a significant source of rising wages, productivity and living standards over the past century,'' they write, and should be viewed as a positive, even if it results in a growing gap between the rich and the poor.
 Writing like the economists that they are, the authors point out that higher rates of return on capital are a sign of greater productivity and ''that inference is fully applicable to human capital as well as to physical capital.'' 
 They conclude: ''We believe that the rise in returns on investment in human capital is beneficial and desirable'' and they add, in a not-so-veiled message to politicians, ''policies designed to deal with inequality must take account of its cause.'' FINAL TAKE -- Summertime is coming, and for most of us the living won't be as easy as it could be.
 Money magazine notes that Americans average the fewest days off and leave the greatest percentage of their vacation time unused, compared with other nations. 
 The average American gets 14 days of vacation but takes only 11. Germans use 25 of the 26 days they receive; the British use 21 of their 24 days off; and the French use all but 3 of their 36 days, the magazine writes, citing research done by Expedia.com.
 All this leads the magazine to conclude that America is ''land of the free, home of the Type A personality.'' PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); FORECLOSURE (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



32 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: A Nation's Lost Holocaust History, Now on Display

BYLINE: By MARJORIE BACKMAN

 BODY:
When Israelitische Kultusgemeinde Wien, or Jewish Community Vienna, decided to sell a vacant building in the summer of 2000, two employees were sent to look for any archival material that might have been left behind.
 What they found exceeded any historian's dream: Stacked floor to ceiling in two rooms of one apartment sat some 800 dusty boxes containing, among other things, about half a million pages of detailed records of the community during the Holocaust -- archives not known to have survived.
''Opening each box was extremely exciting,'' said Lothar Holbling, the chief archivist and one of the discoverers. ''Eight hundred excitements.''
 Now, after seven years of quiet work reordering, preserving and microfilming the archives -- a joint project of Jewish Community Vienna and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington -- the documents are about to be officially unveiled with a presentation at the museum on Thursday, followed by an exhibition, opening on July 3, at the Jewish Museum Vienna. 
 When combined with community records stretching back to the 17th century that had been shipped to Israel in the 1950s, the Vienna cache makes up one of the largest Holocaust archives of any Jewish community, some two million pages. With it historians will be better able to understand how the Holocaust unfolded and provide a window into the daily life of Vienna's Jews. The archives of Jewish Community Vienna, the representative body of the city's Jews, will also be of great help to families in uncovering exactly what happened to their relatives. 
 ''For most of the last six decades, people believed that one could not study the action of Jews in the Holocaust period because the Nazis systematically destroyed the records of Jewish communities and organizations,'' said Paul Shapiro, director of the Holocaust museum's Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies. ''Most Holocaust scholarship has been written based on the documentary record created by the perpetrators of the Holocaust.'' 
 The Vienna archives, in their entirety, are believed to be the largest collection of material about a Jewish community in the German-speaking world, Ingo Zechner, director of the Vienna group's Holocaust Victims' Information and Support Center, said. Indeed, Vienna once had the third-largest Jewish population in Europe.
 A survey of Vienna's pre-Holocaust records illustrates the community's diversity: Jewish cultural organizations, welfare societies, chess clubs, groups of Jewish soldiers from World War I, Zionist groups -- even monarchist clubs are represented, Mr. Zechner said. A 1927 letter from Sigmund Freud declared his 1926 income of 50,000 Austrian schillings and the tax he expected to pay the group.
 Some of Vienna's Holocaust-era files can already be viewed on microfilm at the Holocaust museum in Washington and at the Central Archives for the History of the Jewish People in Israel. And, according to plans arranged with Simon Wiesenthal before his death, a proposed Vienna Wiesenthal Institute for Holocaust Studies will unite under one roof Mr. Wiesenthal's Nazi-hunting files with the Jewish Community files and will serve as a research institute for visiting scholars and a showcase for themed exhibitions.
 After the Nazis annexed Austria in 1938, they began disbanding virtually all Jewish groups. Two months later the Nazis reinstated Jewish Community Vienna, Mr. Zechner said, enlisting it to help carry out their initial plan, which was for Jews to depart Austria after paying fees and leaving behind most of their property.
 Discovered within the Vienna apartment were card indexes, produced by the community's emigration office, with the names of 118,000 Jews from families that had sought its assistance to emigrate in 1938 and 1939. These indexes were the key to sorting through thousands of emigration questionnaires already stored in Jerusalem. 
 The questionnaire, filled out by the head of a household, solicited four pages of detail about family and economic status, references and contacts abroad -- pertinent information for those seeking visas. 
 ''A Jewish community official would make a house visit and describe the living conditions,'' Anatol Steck of the Holocaust museum said. In many cases it is now possible to trace every administrative step, from someone's first contact at the emigration office to when the family boarded a train or a ship, Mr. Zechner said. 
 The archive also contains thousands of letters, many related to emigration issues. ''They would assist families in working through the bureaucratic maze of getting out of the country,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''They also made a calculation of which families needed cash.'' 
 Jewish Community Vienna encouraged Jews to learn new skills, like farming and mechanics, so they could be placed abroad, Mr. Steck said. When the psychiatrist Viktor Frankl, the founder of existential analysis, filled out an emigration questionnaire in 1938, Dr. Frankl wrote by hand in German: ''I'm living with my father, a federal retiree. My income from my medical practice is so little, I will have to close my medical office.'' Asked if he had been trained in a new profession, he wrote, ''I'm about to learn the craft of house painting.''
 Dr. Frankl received an immigration visa to the United States but forfeited it so as not to leave behind his parents. He, his wife and his parents were deported in 1942 to concentration camps; only Dr. Frankl survived, writing of his Auschwitz experiences in ''Man's Search for Meaning.'' 
 For Jews who perished, Mr. Steck said, ''the questionnaires are like the last testament of the victims.'' Ultimately, two-thirds of Vienna's Jewish community survived the Holocaust, but more than 65,000 Austrian Jews were murdered. 
 Walter Feiden, 79, of New York City, is the only survivor of his Viennese family. His father, Moses, went to the community organization's offices to research names and addresses in phone books before securing affidavits of support from two American strangers: a Jewish manufacturer and a district attorney named Feiden. Yet the United States consulate rejected Moses Feiden's visa request after learning he was born in Poland, not Austria. On Oct. 15, 1941, the Feidens were deported to the Lodz ghetto, where Moses died; Emilie, Walter's stepmother, was transported to Chelmno and gassed. 
 Just last month Mr. Feiden learned of a letter found in the archives indicating that right before the family's deportation, the Dominican Republic had approved visas, and that a Jewish community official had asked the Gestapo to strike the Feidens from the deportation list. 
 ''This is a shocker to me,'' Mr. Feiden said. ''There's no way to get back what I lost,'' he said, adding that he was glad to know the new information ''to the extent that it proves to me that my father tried even harder.''
 Also found in Vienna: the lists for 45 deportations, each naming about 1,000 Jews scheduled for transport in 1941 and 1942 to destinations like Auschwitz, Theresienstadt, Lodz and Minsk. Some of these locations were known then as Jewish ghettos. Not as widely known, however, was the fact that after a certain time, they became transfer points to death camps. 
 Raul Hilberg, author of ''The Destruction of the European Jews,'' viewed the deportation lists in the archives last year. ''The most troublesome question which occurred to me is, who prepared the list?'' he asked. ''Who picked these names to begin with? Whenever I asked anyone at all, I got the same answer. The community did not prepare the list. On the other hand, the Gestapo people after the war insisted that they prepared no lists. But someone had to choose the people and look up the addresses.''
 The records found in Vienna are also being used to help families file restitution claims. The Holocaust Victims' Support Center was founded in 1999, the year after Austria began serious discussions about compensation for looted artwork, slave labor and stolen property.
 The tireless efforts of Mr. Zechner, 34, and Mr. Holbling, 36, to reorganize the files are noteworthy because neither is Jewish, nor is most of the center's 12-person staff. Mr. Zechner said the involvement of non-Jews was partly due to Austria's increased openness to reflecting about the Holocaust in the years since revelations emerged about the Nazi past of Kurt Waldheim, the nation's former president.
 For Mr. Zechner, a historian and philosopher, a major motive in working for the organization ''was to understand what happened during the Holocaust and how the Holocaust affects our present life.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Emigration Chart, 1941,'' compiled on the order of Nazi authorities, consolidated statistics about Austrian Jews, including the nations they had emigrated to and the size of Austria's dwindling Jewish population. (Photo by Harald Wendelin/Jewish Community Vienna)(pg. B7)
Holocaust-era records found in Vienna are providing a wealth of information about Austria's Jews.
 One of several Jewish Community Vienna collages created about 1940, probably to help foreign fund-raising. (Photographs by Jewish Community Vienna)(pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); HOLOCAUST (92%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WORLD WAR I (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) AUSTRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



33 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: COLD AND HOT

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
THE government said economic growth was slower in the first quarter than it had initially estimated. Chinese markets swooned, but American investors reached new heights. The World Bank has big money-raising needs for its new leader. 
 China's stock market plummeted Wednesday after Beijing imposed higher taxes on stock trading activity in an attempt to cool off a sizzling market. China's two major stock indexes fell sharply in a huge sell-off, and the Shanghai composite index was down 6.5 percent.
The sharp fall did not sway American markets. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed Wednesday at a level last reached on March 24, 2000. It ended the week up 1.4 percent, closing yesterday at 1,536.34.
 For the week, the Nasdaq climbed 2.2 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.2 percent. Some angry Chinese investors, however, lashed out at the government for earlier saying there was no intention to raise the stamp duty tax and then promptly reversing course early Wednesday, after the raging bull market reached new highs on Monday and Tuesday. There were even reports that investors hacked into a government finance Web site and shut it down.
 On Thursday, however, the market recovered slightly, but it continued its slide yesterday, ending the week down 4.3 percent. Still, one thing is clear: there is no panic. DAVID BARBOZA MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 26 through June 1: 1. Bumped Fliers and No Plan B 2. In Fierce Competition, Google Finds Novel Ways to Feed Hiring Machine 3. Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs 4. Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect 5. Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Links are at nytimes.com/business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (65%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (65%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (65%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (65%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



34 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: China's Investors Pull Back, but U.S. Bull Is Unfazed

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
THE government said economic growth was slower in the first quarter than it had initially estimated. Chinese markets swooned, but American investors reached new heights. The World Bank has big money-raising needs for its new leader. GROWTH STALLS -- The Commerce Department halved its estimate of how much the economy grew in the first quarter, revealing that there was hardly any growth at all. 
 Growth in gross domestic product, the measure of all goods and services produced in the United States, was initially put at 1.3 percent, in an April report. But when the government recalculated it -- taking into account a larger trade deficit and shrinking inventory stockpiles at American businesses -- the G.D.P. advanced by just 0.6 percent. 
 That was the slowest pace since the end of 2002. (The numbers will be revised one more time this month.) Yesterday, the government reported that the unemployment rate held steady at 4.5 percent and that 157,000 jobs were created in May, nearly twice the number added in April.
 April's trade deficit figures, which come out Friday, should shed some light on whether trade will actually help the G.D.P in the second quarter, as many economists expect it will. JEREMY W. PETERS MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 26 through June 1: 1. Bumped Fliers and No Plan B 2. In Fierce Competition, Google Finds Novel Ways to Feed Hiring Machine 3. Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs 4. Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect 5. Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Links are at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A newspaper headline announced the drop in the major stock indexes in China. Chinese investors reacted after Beijing imposed higher taxes on stock trading activity. (Photo by Qilai Shen/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (66%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (66%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (66%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (66%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



35 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: The Long Life Span of a Housing Downturn

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
WHAT happens when the American housing industry enters a downturn? It can last a long time.
 The Federal Reserve Board this week indicated that it did not expect a quick reversal of the industry's woes. ''Most participants agreed,'' said minutes of the Fed's Open Market Committee meeting in early May, that ''the correction of the housing sector was likely to continue to weigh heavily on economic activity through most of this year -- somewhat longer than previously expected.'' 
 There are few economic trends harder to measure than home prices, given that every home is unique, and a house in one area can cost far more than an identical one in another location. All such measures show the market has weakened, but some do not yet show a broad national decline.
 One measure that does is the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index, which measures house prices by comparing the price of a house with what it sold for before. Its composite of 10 major geographic areas shows that in March prices were, on average, down 1.9 percent from a year earlier, and 3 percent from the peak reached last June.
 As the accompanying chart shows, that index also hit a peak in October 1989, and went into a decline that lasted a long time. It was not until January 1998 -- 99 months later -- that the index climbed above the 1989 peak. 
 That index may be more volatile than national indexes because of its heavy concentration on the two coasts. It includes three broad regions in California -- Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco -- as well as Boston, New York, Miami and Washington in the East. The other areas included are Las Vegas, Denver and Chicago. The areas are very broad, with the New York region stretching from New Haven to Trenton.
 The charts show the pattern of home prices and national home sales, both for new single-family homes and for existing homes, after the two peaks. Prices are falling more rapidly this time, just as they rose more rapidly coming into the 2006 peak than they had a generation earlier, in 1989.
 The trends in home sale numbers are similar, however. In the first couple of months after the peak, sales did not slip as much in 1989, but by the ninth month they were off about as much as they are now, with new-home sales particularly hard hit.
 One thing that was very different at the 1989 peak from the one in 2006 was the trend in the number of homes being offered for sale. When prices peaked in 1989, the number of homes for sale was already declining, and it continued to fall for some months, perhaps reflecting decisions by homeowners to hold on and wait for prices to come back.
 In 2006, however, the number of homes for sale rose as the peak neared, and the latest report shows that more than 4.1 million homes were for sale at the end of April, the largest number ever. That included almost 3.6 million existing homes, also a record high.
 If enough of those owners are really determined to sell -- in some cases because they cannot afford to make rising mortgage payments -- that could lead to sales figures being higher than in previous times of housing weakness, and to prices falling further as the selling pressure depresses the market. 

GRAPHIC: Chart Home prices in the United States peaked last June and are now lower than they were a year ago. Home prices Year-over-year changes in the S.& P./Case-Shiller composite home price index for 10 metropolitan areas. Graph tracks home prices since 1988. Change from S.& P./Case-Shiller index peaks in October 1989 and June 2006. Graphs track the following, months from peak, (1-48 months). Home prices Sales rate of new homes Sales rate of existing homes Notes: Sales rates for homes are based on three-month moving averages of seasonally adjusted annual rates. Index includes Boston, Chicago, Denver, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Diego, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. (Source by Standard & Poor's, Bloomberg Financial Markets, Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



36 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Ready To Fly Again

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
Douglas M. Steenland, chief executive of Northwest Airlines, steered his carrier out of bankruptcy protection this week after nearly 20 months of haggling with creditors and workers to reduce annual costs by about $2.4 billion.
 Northwest became the last of the big airlines -- following US Airways, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines -- to finish off its post-Sept. 11 court-supervised restructuring. The industry is vastly changed: smaller in number of airplanes; far less generous in paying its workers and retirees; and operating on a new hurry-up basis with fewer employees and less time between flights for planes.
All of that, and a stock package for Mr. Steenland valued at more than $25 million, has made many Northwest workers angry. Flight attendants passed a contract by a mere 51 percent to 49 percent last week, even though failing to do so would have cost most of them a payout of $14,500 each related to the bankruptcy. 
 Mr. Steenland, 55, rang the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday morning to celebrate the beginning of trading in new Northwest shares, took a quick detour by Federal Bankruptcy Court in downtown Manhattan for one last look and then answered some questions. Following are excerpts: Q. Given how angry workers across the airline industry are about chief executive pay packages, why did you take such a big one? A. The compensation process is not one I play a role in. The decisions were made by the Northwest board of directors, acting completely independently of management. Q. But you could have insisted on less, just as you took reduced pay during the bankruptcy, right? A. If you look at things on a relative basis, in 2006 compared to the other network C.E.O.'s, I was fifth out of six. Among Fortune 500 C.E.O.'s, I'm in the lower 50 percent. Q. Workers are maddest, of course, about their own reduced paychecks. Should their compensation be more tied to stock price, as yours is? A. A fair subject for discussion is the structure of how airline employees get compensated and how much should be variable. Unions have shied away from variable compensation: equity ownership or profit sharing. They have preferred the less-risky approach.
 Given the volatility this industry has always had, when downturns come the focus becomes the overall costs. And the more compensation that is fixed, the more it becomes a focus. Q. Given the pain and hard feelings from bankruptcy, would airlines be better off with new management after one of these? A. Every board has the choice to do that. I don't think there's any general rule one way or another. The Northwest team did a good job. Northwest is secure. It's going to be profitable for a long time. People don't have to go home and worry, ''Is my job safe? Am I going to lose my pension?'' Q. What about a possible merger? A. There has been airline consolidation discussion for the last 10 years. There are in fact economic benefits. But the difficulty of combining two airlines and preserving the value -- there's a lot of stories out there about combinations that didn't go well. Q. Are you in merger talks now? A. No. Q. Planes are crowded and Northwest's are among the most crowded in the industry. Is there any relief in sight for cramped economy-section passengers? A. Internationally, our A-330s come with full video in economy. Boeing 787s will come with full video in economy. For the rest of economy, there's the core product of be-on-time, be-courteous. But a lot of these decisions are price-based. One of the success stories is how affordable air travel has become. Q. How about a little extra legroom? A. That experiment was run by American Airlines. They completely reconfigured their airplanes. At the end of the day, the assessment was by and large the traveling public was not willing to pay extra for that. Q. How vulnerable is Northwest to the next economic downturn? A. We built the business plan to withstand any challenge we can think of. We got $4.5 billion of debt off the balance sheet. We're going to emerge with over $3 billion of cash. Among network airlines we're the lowest-cost provider. We also built our plan around realistic fuel prices. We think we're in a great position. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas M. Steenland 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



37 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: NEW FACE AT WORLD BANK

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

 BODY:
THE government said economic growth was slower in the first quarter than it had initially estimated. Chinese markets swooned, but American investors reached new heights. The World Bank has big money-raising needs for its new leader. 
 The World Bank is preparing for new leadership under Robert B. Zoellick, but facing many of the same problems that have made it a turbulent place in the last two years.
 An experienced diplomat, financier and trade negotiator in three Republican administrations, Mr. Zoellick won generally favorable reviews when President Bush announced his selection as the bank president less than two weeks after the downfall of Paul D. Wolfowitz, the former deputy defense secretary who resigned amid charges of favoritism. 
 Mr. Zoellick said that he would take seriously his obligation to try to heal the wounds left by Mr. Wolfowitz and would also consult widely as he charts a new course for an institution that provides $23 billion a year in assistance to poor countries.
 Some problems are long term. Should the bank be lending $14 billion a year to ''middle income'' countries like China, India, Brazil and Mexico, which have easy access to capital markets? Can the bank focus on governance and corruption without being accused of meddling in the affairs of recipient countries?
 One question is coming at Mr. Zoellick more quickly. This year the bank, under his leadership, must raise $30 billion to be lent over the next three years for the poorest of the poor countries. The effort has fallen behind because of the turmoil over Mr. Wolfowitz. Mr. Zoellick will be plunging into the task as soon as he is elected, probably before the end of the month. STEVEN R. WEISMAN MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 26 through June 1: 1. Bumped Fliers and No Plan B 2. In Fierce Competition, Google Finds Novel Ways to Feed Hiring Machine 3. Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs 4. Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect 5. Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Links are at nytimes.com/business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CORRUPTION (69%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (64%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (64%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (64%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



38 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Cuts Back Expansion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

DATELINE: FAYETTEVILLE, Ark., June 1 

 BODY:
The world's largest retailer is slowing down. Again.
 After decades of staggering growth, which blanketed suburban America with thousands of its giant stores, Wal-Mart will reduce the number of new supercenters to be opened this year by nearly 30 percent, or roughly 75 stores, the company said here Friday during its annual shareholder meeting.
The store pullback, the second in less than six months, may be the biggest in the company's 45-year history, and suggests that Wal-Mart is reaching a turning point. 
 Once seemingly invulnerable, Wal-Mart has begun to stumble, with sales gains at individual stores falling to their lowest levels in decades in 2006. Opening new stores at the rate of one a day has not helped; they have taken attention (and resources) away from aging outlets in need of renovations and at times have snatched sales from nearby older stores.
 Rather than relying heavily on new Wal-Marts, executives are now more focused on squeezing sales and profits out of older ones.
 The announcement, combined with the company's decision to increase its share buyback, impressed investors, who sent shares of Wal-Mart up $1.87, or almost 4 percent, to $49.47.
 By cutting back its expansion, Wal-Mart is following the advice that analysts have given the company for years: focus on obtaining the best possible return on investments, not just on growth for its own sake.
 This year, rather than opening 265 to 270 stores, as Wal-Mart had previously planned, it will open 190 to 200, which will produce enormous cost savings.
 For the next three years after that, Wal-Mart plans to open 170 supercenters a year -- well below its average. Executives at the shareholder meeting strongly defended H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart, against charges that he had an improper business relationship with a vendor. The company also disclosed an increase in its stock buyback program and claimed early success in efforts to fix a wide range of problems in United States stores.
 Reacting to allegations by Julie Roehm, a fired former advertising executive, that Mr. Scott bought boats and a diamond ring from vendors at discounted rates, Thomas D. Hyde, Wal-Mart's corporate secretary, said, ''Mr. Scott did not and has not committed ethical violations.''
 ''Wal-Mart's ethical standards are equal to or more stringent than those of more retailers,'' he added. ''In my opinion,'' he said, Mr. Scott ''undernegotiates and overpays and leaves too much on the table when he buys things. He knows he lives in a fishbowl.''
 In another nod to Wall Street, Thomas M. Schoewe, the chief financial officer, said Wal-Mart would buy back $15 billion worth of stock. Wal-Mart's last buyback program was $10 billion. The move is expected to bolster earnings per share and, eventually, the stock price, which has languished for much of the year.
 Wall Street has begun to balk at the number of new stores Wal-Mart opens every year because the retailer's capital expenses have grown, on average, 19 percent a year over the last decade, faster than its sales and profit growth.
 Last fall, to assuage investors, Wal-Mart said it would reduce the increase in new store space this year by less than 1 percent and choose locations for new stores more carefully. Most people thought that cut would be the last for the year.
 But after a closer examination, Wal-Mart chose to chop again. Mr. Schoewe said the company was ''committed to providing better returns.''
 ''The message you are hearing today,'' he told shareholders, ''is that we have found a real nice balance between appropriate return and the growth of your great company.''
 Mr. Schoewe called the reductions a ''moderation'' and emphasized that Wal-Mart would still add 20 million square feet of new store space this year. ''We are committed to growth,'' he said.
 But the cutback is significant because each Wal-Mart supercenter can book sales of $100 million a year, and the giant stores have propelled much of Wal-Mart's growth -- an increase of more than 13 percent a year, on average, in the last decade. 
 Wal-Mart remains the dominant retailer in the United States. In 2006, it earned $11.28 billion, with sales of $345 billion.
 But sales at stores open at least a year often increased only 1 percent to 2 percent a month throughout the second half of 2006, well below the growth rate at Wal-Mart's rival, Target, unsettling investors.
 Fashionable clothing and home decor did not sell and higher fuel costs harmed Wal-Mart's working-class customers.
 Renovations to older stores have bolstered sales, but Mr. Scott said Wal-Mart must improve its merchandise and store operations -- particularly the wait times at cash registers.
 The ''economic environment is tough for our customers but we just have to work our way through these difficulties,'' he said. ''We will prevail.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: H. Lee Scott Jr. is the chief executive and president of Wal-Mart.
 Wal-Mart associates from China attended the company's annual meeting yesterday in Fayetteville, Ark. (Photographs by April L. Brown/Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); ETHICS (87%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



39 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Proclaiming Liberalism, And What It Now Means

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
The struggle among conservatives to define their movement in the post-Bush era may be getting more attention these days, but liberal intellectuals and writers are doing some soul-searching of their own. Not only are they trying to figure out what ''the L word'' now means, but also whether it could become a guiding philosophy in the 2008 presidential campaign by embracing the very ideas that are often seen as its greatest weaknesses: family values and a proactive government. 
 In several recent and forthcoming books (not to mention in bars and countless blog posts) liberals have been arguing over their past and their future. Al Gore's new book, ''The Assault on Reason,'' with its merciless dissection of the Bush presidency, is getting the most attention. Unlike Mr. Gore, however, most of the other liberal authors are focused less on criticizing those in power than in defending and revitalizing their own philosophy. 
 There is a ''new opening for a more robust liberalism,'' said Michael Tomasky, editor at large of the liberal magazine The American Prospect. ''It's a very fascinating debate, because it's also playing out to some extent in the world. Each of the three main Democratic candidates represents a specific and distinct place on the ideological continuum, from center to left, with Hillary Clinton towards the center, John Edwards towards the left, and Barack Obama occupying a still distinct place in between.''
 While no one in the Democratic presidential field is exactly advertising as the ''liberal'' candidate, and polls show only 20 percent of Americans are willing to identify themselves as liberal (a number that has remained fairly steady since at least 1992), deep dissatisfaction with the Bush administration's handling of the war in Iraq, combined with other political developments, is giving liberals who dared not speak their name their voices back. A whiff of an old-fashioned revival meeting, where believers stand up and unabashedly declare their faith, can even be occasionally detected. 
 Those writing now are ''motivated by the same eagerness to see a revival of something other than what we've had and could be described as liberalism,'' Alan Brinkley, provost at Columbia University, said in an interview. He is one of 13 prominent writers and scholars who contributed to ''Liberalism for a New Century,'' a collection of essays coming out next week. 
 And so many of the authors offer an analysis of why liberalism, which once defined America's political life, lost support, and they identify a list of larger theoretical and policy issues that split the liberal camp, including national security, globalization and immigration, and tension between communal interests and individual rights, as well as liberalism's recent arms-length relationship with religion and traditional values.
 If there is a common thread linking the various books, though, it is an adjustment to President Bill Clinton's famous campaign mantra: ''It's more than the economy, stupid.'' Many aren't satisfied with talking just about paychecks and changing the subject when values are raised, as some liberal and centrist Democrats have suggested. Indeed, they want to adopt the tactics of the Republican strategist Karl Rove and challenge their opponents' greatest strengths on their own ground.
 Liberals often dismiss or ridicule religious and traditional values, Amy Sullivan writes in the essay collection, but they misunderstand that some Republican voters ''are not choosing one moral view over another.''
 ''They are choosing the political party that talks about morality and religion over the party that doesn't,'' she wrote. 
 Such silence isn't necessary. ''American liberalism is, at its core, a set of moral commitments rooted in practical reason,'' E. J. Dionne Jr. declares in the introduction to ''Liberalism for a New Century.'' In ''Freedom's Power: The True Force of Liberalism,'' an unabashedly laudatory history by Paul Starr, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Princeton sociologist, he argues that liberals ''cannot allow themselves to become merely defensive and oppositional.'' 
 They need, he writes, to ''make the case for liberalism's first principles, to renew the work of liberal innovation and to convince their fellow citizens to make the American project a liberal project once again.'' 
 Those principles also include the decidedly unfashionable idea that government can be a force for good. Todd Gitlin, whose book ''The Bulldozer and the Big Tent: Blind Republicans, Lame Democrats, and the Recovery of American Ideals,'' is due out this fall, and Eric Alterman, whose ''Why We're Liberals: A Political Handbook for Post-Bush America,'' is due out this winter, reverse Ronald Reagan's potent slogan to argue essentially that government is not the problem, it's the solution. 
 In ''The Conscience of a Liberal'' (out in October), Paul Krugman, the Princeton economist and New York Times columnist, makes the case for a new ''New Deal.'' He and others note that an overwhelming majority of Americans, even those who don't call themselves liberals, hold liberal views, in the sense that they want the government to take action on providing health insurance, helping the poorest members of society and protecting the environment. 
 Of course, polls show that what most Americans want at the moment is to bring the Iraq war to a conclusion. While liberals and other Democrats (including centrists and progressives who still wince at the word ''liberal'') may agree on that goal, there is a vigorous debate over what kind of overarching vision should govern foreign policy. 
 To noninterventionists the Iraq war provides sorrowful evidence of the dangers of exercising American power around the globe. The liberal internationalism that guided America through the cold war, however, linked security at home with the promotion of democracy abroad, and relied on international institutions and nonmilitary programs to win hearts and minds.
 In his essay Mr. Tomasky (who is also editor of Guardian America, the London newspaper's Web edition in the United States) offers a six-point program in which liberal hawks admit that the Iraq war was a mistake, and liberal doves acknowledge that their dislike of the Bush administration colored their judgment of the war and affirm that ''we are not realists,'' in the sense that tough-minded realpolitik should not necessarily override moral and humanitarian concerns. 
 Other elements of America's foreign policy, like globalization, trade and immigration, continue to split liberal free traders from liberal populists and labor unions. In a debate on American Prospect online (prospect.org), for example, Jeff Faux, a founder of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington, argues that free-trade advocates have abandoned American workers, failing to push for strong labor and environmental standards in trade agreements that might help insulate Americans from corporations trolling the globe for the cheapest labor. 
 James K. Galbraith, a professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas, counters that despite its many imperfections, globalization is a locomotive that can't be stopped. There are benefits like lower inflation and cheap imports, he said, and such standards, while worthwhile, won't have any effect on American jobs, while tariffs will invite retaliation against American exports. 
 Of course, even broad theoretical agreement won't mean an end to tactical divides, like how best to protect legalized abortion and gay rights or seek social justice for minorities, without alienating a majority of the electorate.
 Yet, as Mr. Tomasky said in an interview, ''One good thing about the last six and a half years is everyone's been united most of the time.''
 ''I don't want to oversell it, but people feel engaged in a way that they haven't in a while,'' he said. ''It was just so relentlessly depressing, but things have gotten better. These debates -- even between the left and center -- are done in a more generous spirit because we're not losing quite so badly.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); POLITICS (70%); FAMILY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (62%); RELIGION (61%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (71%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



40 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: INQUIRY INTO DEAL

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THE government said economic growth was slower in the first quarter than it had initially estimated. Chinese markets swooned, but American investors reached new heights. The World Bank has big money-raising needs for its new leader. 
 The Federal Trade Commission has begun an antitrust investigation of Google's planned $3.1 billion purchase of the online advertising company DoubleClick.
 Rivals of Google contend that the merger would give Google immense power in Internet advertising in both search ads and display ads online. Privacy groups worry that Google will add its search histories to DoubleClick's data on users' Web-viewing habits, posing a new threat to privacy online. 
 Google replied that the online advertising market is young and dynamic, and it expressed confidence that the deal would be approved. The company said it was sensitive to privacy concerns.
 No matter the outcome in the United States, Google's ambitious plans may face a stiffer challenge in Europe, where regulators take a harder line on privacy matters than in the United States and a tougher stance on antitrust issues (as Microsoft has learned) STEVE LOHR MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from May 26 through June 1: 1. Bumped Fliers and No Plan B 2. In Fierce Competition, Google Finds Novel Ways to Feed Hiring Machine 3. Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs 4. Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect 5. Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Links are at nytimes.com/business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE ADVERTISING (93%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); DOUBLECLICK INC (93%); APPLE INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2007



41 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Idiot Wind

BYLINE: By Henry S. F. Cooper Jr.. 
Henry S. F. Cooper Jr., the author of several books about space exploration, is the president of Otsego 2000, a local environmental group.

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
MUCH of upstate New York, from north of Albany to Buffalo, from the Catskills to the Adirondacks, is in danger of being transformed beyond recognition by industrial wind parks. Some 50 of these wind parks are being planned and even built. 
 All of this is being done in the name of clean energy and saving the planet. But it isn't clear that wind power is such a panacea in the battle against global warming that developers of these wind parks should be allowed to run roughshod over some of our loveliest land. What we need are statewide siting guidelines that take other environmental factors, including visual impacts, into consideration. 
One upstate project, 70 miles west of Albany, is the Jordanville Wind Power Project proposed by Community Energy, a subsidiary of the Spanish conglomerate Iberdrola. The project is not far from where I live in Cooperstown. About 70 turbines, as tall as 40-story buildings, are proposed near the top of a ridge where they will be visible far across the Mohawk Valley to the north and to the south down the length of Otsego Lake, the centerpiece of the Glimmerglass National Historic District. There are six national historic districts and sites eligible or listed, in the area, covering some 40,000 acres. One that is eligible but not listed is the Holy Trinity Monastery, the spiritual center of the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad. Another, Glimmerglass, includes the landscape that inspired the artists of the Hudson River School and novelists like James Fenimore Cooper (an ancestor of mine). 
 The effects nearer the turbines will be even more devastating. The towers loom all around; their blades, 150 feet long, cause the sunlight to flicker; the nacelles -- the hub of the blades -- make a high-pitched whine. 
 Real estate values, certainly for second and retirement homes, but also primary residences, would likely plummet, damaging the local tax base. The carnage among birds and bats is considerable. 
 The Jordanville project would be built on an unstable soluble layer of karst limestone riddled with cracks, fissures and caverns. It could affect local wells and fish hatcheries; springs in this area are the source not only of Otsego Lake but of the Susquehanna River, which starts there. 
 Of course, the sacrifice of much of upstate New York in the name of saving the planet would be admirable and noble if it was clear that wind power would play a major role in combating global warming. But a recent study by the National Academy of Sciences casts doubt on this theory. 
 Wind is an iffy resource. It blows hard enough to generate electricity about 30 percent of the time. When wind-power companies talk of a project supplying electricity to, say, 60,000 houses, which is what the Jordanville project claims, those homes are dark and powerless 70 percent of the time. Or they would be, if it wasn't for conventional power sources, which need to be kept on line to take over when the wind drops. Realistically, Jordanville will power about 18,000 houses or less. In the trade-offs between wind power and other environmental considerations, the less wind contributes to reducing global warming, the more important other environmental factors -- including visual impact -- become. 
 So why then are we destroying large tracts of upstate New York in the name of an uncertain energy source? In part, it is because the Spitzer administration, even more than the Pataki administration did, is increasing subsidies and tax credits for these alternative energy companies. Indeed most wind companies concede that if it weren't for government support, they wouldn't be in business. 
 The Spitzer administration has introduced wording to the Clean Economic Power Supply Act that would revamp utility siting law. Its Article X would speed approval for industrial wind parks, in particular by circumventing home rule and the State Environmental Quality Review Act, the cornerstone of the state's environmental laws, which is responsible for determining whether local ordinances conform with state environmental law when a town or municipality accepts or rejects a project. 
 But what we need to do is strengthen the siting provisions in the Clean Economic Power Supply Act. Three bills that are before the State Senate would impose moratoriums on wind projects while siting guidelines are established and the effects of a project on neighboring areas are assessed. One of the bills would give New York's commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation a veto on approving turbine siting. All these bills are steps in the right direction; they have critical elements that are worth incorporating into the new Article X legislation, to assure burdened upstate towns that community character and historic and scenic resources will be protected. 
 Wind has a role to play, but perhaps not as strong a one as other clean energy sources, especially those like safer nuclear energy and cleaner coal, which provide not erratic but constant energy. We need to think carefully about where we place wind farms and whether the benefits outweigh the losses. But more important, we can't let wind power, and projects like the Jordanville one, distract our attention and financial resources from better solutions for saving our planet. Wind may be something of a red herring hidden inside a pork barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); RELIGION (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); WRITERS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

COMPANY: IBERDROLA SA (58%)

TICKER: IBE (MCE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



42 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; REACH OF WAR; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Bridge Bombing Increases Tensions in Northern Iraq

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting was contributed by Khalid al-Ansary, Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi and Muhanad Seloom from Baghdad, Andrew Lehren from New York, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Kirkuk and Diyala Province.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, June 2 

 BODY:
Bomb blasts severely damaged a bridge linking a highway from Baghdad with the northern city of Kirkuk on Saturday, the police and witnesses said, heightening tensions between Arabs and Kurds and forcing traffic to detour through some of the most dangerous areas of Diyala Province. 
 An American tank firing at insurgents near Falluja also killed three Iraqi children on Saturday, according to a military statement, and an American helicopter was damaged by gunfire north of Baghdad and forced to land. 
In Baghdad, a barrage of mortar shells killed at least seven people. 
 The destruction of the Sarha bridge, about 100 miles north of Baghdad and one of the busiest crossings for vehicles moving between the capital and Kirkuk, appeared to be part of an effort by Sunni insurgents to isolate Kirkuk and limit interaction between residents of different areas and sects.
 Salah al-Mufaraji, a prominent tribal leader who lives near the Sarha bridge, said groups aligned with Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia were responsible for the bombing. 
 ''Gunmen move through the area freely amid the absence of the government and because the security forces can't control the area,'' he said. ''All the people living here have announced allegiance to Al Qaeda out of fear and because they can't confront it.''
 Abbas Hilmi, a taxi driver who travels between Baghdad and Kirkuk, said that damage to the bridge would hurt the already hobbled local economy. 
 ''It's miserable,'' he said. ''We're taxi drivers. We need the roads.''
 It was the second bridge leading to Kirkuk bombed this week, local leaders said, and it came on a day when a prominent Sunni tribal leader was found dead south of the city after being kidnapped Friday. 
 The killing and the bridge bombing reflected rising tensions in the oil-rich area between Kurds and Sunni insurgents who oppose Kurdish plans to make the area part of the north's Kurdish-controlled region. 
 The Iraqi Constitution calls for a referendum on the issue this year and Iraqi and American officials have predicted that violence will increase before the vote. 
 Increasing attacks are likely to heighten tensions with Iraq's northern neighbor, Turkey, which has complained bitterly in recent weeks that Iraq has done nothing to control a Kurdish militant group, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, in southern Turkey. Turkey says that the United States, its NATO ally, should do more to force Iraq to control the Kurds.
 Kurdish leaders have rejected the demands. On Saturday, Masood Barzani, president of Iraq's Kurdish area, said, ''Turkey does not have the right to interfere'' in Kirkuk. 
 Also north of Baghdad, gunmen killed two people, including a teacher, near a prison north of Baquba, in Diyala Province, the police said. An Iraqi soldier was also killed and four others were wounded by a roadside bomb in Muqdadiya. 
 Residents said that frustration with the violence committed by Sunni extremists appeared to be rising in the province, but its impact is questionable. 
 On Friday, in southern Baquba, a Sunni cleric called for joint Sunni-Shiite prayers. Only four Shiites attended, but according to several witnesses, who declined to be named, the cleric spoke harshly of Al Qaeda and called upon all of the area's armed groups to unite against it. 
 Gunmen standing outside the mosque said they were preparing to fight back and had asked the American military for help. 
 From the Feb. 14 start of the new security plan for Iraq to the end of May, 43 American service members died in Diyala, six more than in the same period last year, according to an analysis of military counts.
 Despite the recent decision by American commanders to funnel additional troops into the area, and initial signs of local resistance, there have been few signs of improvement. 
 An American helicopter forced to make a precautionary landing in Diyala on Saturday was the second to be downed by gunfire this week. 
 On Monday, gunmen shot down a helicopter, killed its two pilots, then detonated roadside bombs that killed six soldiers who rushed to recover their comrades and the aircraft.
 Their deaths added to the toll for May, already the third-deadliest month for American forces since the war started in March 2003. On Saturday, the United States military reported that another soldier was killed in a roadside bombing on Wednesday in Baghdad, raising the total deaths in May to 127. 
 The military said the tank assault in Falluja that killed three children was being investigated. A statement said the tank fired at insurgents trying to set up roadside bombs. 
 In Baghdad, at least 18 mortar shells landed on the residential area of Fadhil in central Baghdad, a Sunni enclave in mostly Shiite eastern Baghdad that has the been site of battles between the Iraqi Army, Shiite militias and Sunni gunmen for months. 
 Wamidh Salah, a neighborhood leader, said that seven people from two families were killed and that 25 were wounded. 
 ''The houses in the neighborhood are old and small,'' he said. ''So mortar shells cause enormous damage, more than in other areas.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (79%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (79%); AL-QAEDA (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); REFERENDUMS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



43 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; HEADS UP: CONTINENTAL CRUISES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: As Dollar Sinks, European Cruises Could Be a Bargain

BYLINE: By DAVID KAUFMAN

 BODY:
DESPITE the rising euro and the near-record pound, Europe is emerging as the unexpected star of this summer's cruising season. With companies from the American cruising giants to boutique lines that specialize in river and Arctic itineraries expanding their presence throughout the Continent, European cruise capacity is expected to increase 23 percent this summer over last, according to Cruise Industry News, with an additional 10 percent more growth predicted for next year.
 Fueling the rise is a combination of consumer demand and cruising's unanticipated status as a vacation value option this summer. ''There are more ships out there than ever before, and companies have to put them where they will earn a strong return,'' said Henry Harteveldt, chief travel analyst at Forrester Research in San Francisco.
 Terry L. Dale, chief executive of the Cruise Lines International Association, which represents 21 major lines, said, ''There is tremendous value in European cruising this summer because you pay for everything in dollars before boarding, which helps remove the vulnerability of fluctuating exchange rates.'' 
 Among the new entrants are Carnival and Disney, which are launching megaships in the Mediterranean this year -- the 110,000-ton, 2,984-passenger Carnival Freedom and the 83,000-ton 2,700-passenger Disney Magic, the company's first foray into the Continent. At the opposite extreme, the New York City-based operator Lindblad Expeditions is introducing the 86-passenger Sea Cloud II, which will focus on Mediterranean excursions, while Tauck World Discovery, a European river cruise specialist, is preparing for the second season of its 118-passenger Swiss Emerald and plans to add a new 361-foot sister ship next year. Royal Caribbean, Norwegian Cruise Lines and Princess Cruises are also strengthening their European presence; the luxury line Silverseas is placing its entire four-ship fleet in Europe; and Crystal Cruises is repositioning vessels from Alaska to Europe this year in response to rising demand.
 Once deployed, the new -- and new to Europe -- vessels will cruise throughout the region this summer from perennial favorites like Italy and Spain to Croatia and Arctic gateway towns, which, according to Mr. Dale, are going to be the season's important new destinations. 
 Cruise industry executives and analysts said the upswing in European demand was unlikely to reach a saturation point soon, because repeat passengers and wealthier novices are likely to seek more sophisticated experiences away from traditional destinations like Alaska and the Caribbean.
 ''We are seeing growing affluence among baby boomers who not only have more money, but more time,'' said Bob Dickinson, chief executive of Carnival Cruise Lines, whose summer 2008 launch of a second megaship in the Mediterranean will increase Carnival's European capacity 50 percent over its 2006 level. With so many lines sailing so many ships this summer, pricing on European cruises has become increasingly competitive -- particularly in this era of 200-euro hotel rooms. Much of the value comes from the nature of cruises, which, regardless of size or itinerary, generally include cabins, meals and most on-board activities for a single fee priced in dollars rather than euros or pounds. 
 Smaller companies like Tauck and Lindblad include shore excursions and pre- and post-sailing hotel stays, generally among ''the only extras you are paying for on cruises,'' Mr. Harteveldt said.
 And because cruises usually price their sailings -- as well as shore excursions and even spa fees -- up to a year in advance, ''you are locking in a trip's major costs before you depart,'' said Bob Watson, manager of Watson & Watson, a division of Protravel International in Scarsdale, N.Y. 
 As Mr. Dale of the cruise ship group noted, cruise lines are bullish on the Baltics and Europe's far north this summer, along with the Dalmatian Coast. Celebrity, which will operate four vessels in Europe, is adding new ports including the Norwegian towns of Molde and Tromso in the popular fjord-filled subarctic region. Crystal, meanwhile, will pull into Eidfjord in Norway for the first time; Holland America will include Jupivogur in Iceland among its 13 new European ports; and Seabourn will call on Lysekil in Sweden and the Danish island of Bornholm. 
 There is an equal flurry of new activity in the Adriatic, with lines like Seabourn, Holland America and Regent Seven Seas joining the rush to ports in Croatia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
 ''Croatia is one of the most requested destinations simply because cruisers have not been there yet,'' said Bruce Good, spokesman for the Yachts of Seabourn, which will call on ports like Split, Dubrovnik, Rovinj and Zadar, as well as Kotor in Montenegro and Koper in Slovenia. 
 Farther east, the Black Sea is proving to be popular as well, with lines like Celebrity, Crystal and Holland America pulling into Sochi in Russia for the first time. The Black Sea is also the endpoint for the newest -- and longest -- river cruise from Tauck Tours, whose European river business increased 45 percent last summer. This season, Tauck begins a 21-day, transcontinental voyage from Amsterdam to Romania's Black Sea port of Cernavoda, cruising along the Rhine, Main and Danube Rivers through Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia and Bulgaria. Excursions include visits to Unesco World Heritage Sites like the German town of Bamberg, as well as a tour of the Serbian capital of Belgrade and an excursion to the walled fortress in Veliko Turnovo, Bulgaria's medieval capital. Prices begin at $7,530, plus airfare. 
 Other new cruises this summer include:
 DISNEY -- The company's cruise operation will have its debut in Europe with eight 10- and 11-night Mediterranean cruises departing from Barcelona and stopping throughout the south of France (Villefranche, Marseille) and Italy (Palermo, Naples, Sardinia, Rome and Florence). Prices begin at $2,399 and include family-friendly extras like hunting for treasure in the Tuscan city of Lucca, making ceramics in Palermo and touring in the medieval city of Narni near Rome, the inspiration for C. S. Lewis's ''The Chronicles of Narnia'' (www.disneycruise.com, 888-325-2500).
 CARNIVAL -- It is launching its newest ship, the 1,487-room Freedom, in Europe with 19 sailings, including a dozen 12-day Grand Mediterranean voyages. Ports include Naples, Dubrovnik, Venice, Messina, Barcelona, Cannes and Livorno. Prices begin at $1,399 (www.carnival.com, 888-227-6482).
 CRYSTAL CRUISES -- The line is introducing an 11-day northern European voyage in early August on the 940-passenger Symphony. Beginning in Copenhagen, the ship docks in Oslo, Hamburg, Amsterdam, Bordeaux and Honfleur in Normandy, before its last stop in London. Prices begin at $4,755 (www.crystalcruises.com, 888-722-0021).
 New Dalmatian and Black Sea destinations along with additional Greek and Turkish ports make for not only a more varied European cruising season, but also a longer one as well. And that longer sailing window, now stretching as late as December on some lines, provides yet another opportunity for travelers to save. By avoiding the peak months of June through August, said Dan Hanrahan, president of Celebrity, travelers can save as much as $1,000 on a Celebrity cruise of 7 to 11 nights. 
 The discount is typical of most lines with fall itineraries, which include sailings until early December on ships from Princess and Cunard. ''And savings can even reach up to 25 percent if you aren't locked into a specific ship on a specific itinerary,'' said Mr. Watson of Protravel.
 Even if you're avoiding Europe this year, a travel agent can give you a head start on booking for next summer. Nearly every major line released 2008 prices months ago -- well before the dollar's current slide. ''The time to book is absolutely right now,'' said Mary Jean Tully, chief executive of Cruise Professionals in Toronto. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Carnival Freedom off Venice. Europe's popularity as a destination is growing among cruise lines large and small. (Photo by Andy Newman/Carnival Cruise Lines) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (86%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (53%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (86%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); NCLH (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (86%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (93%); ARCTIC (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (79%); CROATIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



44 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com State of Connecticut Branford Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection public hearing on an application for a permit to construct a residential dock. 
Tuesday at 6 p.m. Branford Community Recreation Center, 46 Church Street. (860) 424-3037. Hartford Hearing on an application to construct a residential dock. Wednesday at noon. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. Hartford Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism. Monday at 1:30 p.m. 1 Financial Plaza, 755 Main Street. (860) 256-2727. New Britain Energy and Telecommunications. Thursday at 1:30 p.m. Siting Council, 10 Franklin Square. (860) 827-2935. Fairfield County Bethel Public Utilities Commission. Monday at 4 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Bethel Public Site and Building Committee. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Danbury Common Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500. Fairfield Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. Fairfield Town Hall, 611-725 Old Post Road. (203) 256-3000. Newtown Board of Police Commissioners. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Newtown Town Hall South, 3 Main Street. (203) 426-6470. Redding Water Pollution Control Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Ridgefield Fire Commission. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700. Trumbull Zoning Board of Appeals. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. Weston Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Weston Town Hall, 56 Norfield Road. (203) 222-2656. Weston Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 8 p.m. Weston Town Hall, 56 Norfield Road. (203) 222-2656. Wilton Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Wilton Town Hall, 238 Danbury Road. (203) 563-0100. Hartford County Simsbury Historic District Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200. Windsor Youth Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Windsor Town Hall, 275 Broad Street. (860) 285-1902. Litchfield County Barkhamsted Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Colebrook Inland Wetlands Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359. Falls Village Inland Wetland and Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707. Plymouth Conservation and Inland Wetlands Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Roxbury Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Roxbury Town Hall, 29 North Street. (860) 354-9938. Washington Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 5 p.m. Washington Town Hall, 2 Bryan Plaza. (860) 868-2259. Woodbury Planning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. Middlesex County Chester Park and Recreation Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Chester Town Hall, 203 Middlesex Avenue. (860) 526-0013. Portland Senior Tax Relief Task Force. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Portland Library, 20 Freestone Avenue. (860) 342-6770. New Haven County Madison Rockland Preserve Committee. Friday at 7:30 a.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672. Orange Zoning Board of Appeals. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Orange Town Hall, 617 Orange Center Road. (203) 891-2122. New London County Lebanon Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 10 a.m. Lebanon Town Hall, 579 Exeter Road. (860) 642-7319. Stonington Stormwater Task Force. Monday at 1 p.m. Stonington Town Hall, 152 Elm Street. (860) 535-5060. Tolland County Andover Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305. Tolland Inland Wetlands Commission public hearing. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. Windham County Danielson Inland Wetlands and Watercourses Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Killingly Town Hall, 172 Main Street. (860) 779-5300. Willimantic Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Windham Town Hall, 979 Main Street. (860) 465-3000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ZONING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); CITIES (87%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENERGY SITING (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%); WATER POLLUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



45 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Idiot Wind

BYLINE: By Henry S. F. Cooper Jr.. 
Henry S. F. Cooper Jr., the author of several books about space exploration, is the president of Otsego 2000, a local environmental group.

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
MUCH of upstate New York, from north of Albany to Buffalo, from the Catskills to the Adirondacks, is in danger of being transformed beyond recognition by industrial wind parks. Some 50 of these wind parks are being planned and even built. 
 All of this is being done in the name of clean energy and saving the planet. But it isn't clear that wind power is such a panacea in the battle against global warming that developers of these wind parks should be allowed to run roughshod over some of our loveliest land. What we need are statewide siting guidelines that take other environmental factors, including visual impacts, into consideration. 
One upstate project, 70 miles west of Albany, is the Jordanville Wind Power Project proposed by Community Energy, a subsidiary of the Spanish conglomerate Iberdrola. The project is not far from where I live in Cooperstown. About 70 turbines, as tall as 40-story buildings, are proposed near the top of a ridge where they will be visible far across the Mohawk Valley to the north and to the south down the length of Otsego Lake, the centerpiece of the Glimmerglass National Historic District. There are six national historic districts and sites eligible or listed, in the area, covering some 40,000 acres. One that is eligible but not listed is the Holy Trinity Monastery, the spiritual center of the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad. Another, Glimmerglass, includes the landscape that inspired the artists of the Hudson River School and novelists like James Fenimore Cooper (an ancestor of mine). 
 The effects nearer the turbines will be even more devastating. The towers loom all around; their blades, 150 feet long, cause the sunlight to flicker; the nacelles -- the hub of the blades -- make a high-pitched whine. 
 Real estate values, certainly for second and retirement homes, if not primary residences, would likely plummet, damaging the local tax base. The carnage among birds and bats is considerable. 
 The Jordanville project would be built on an unstable soluble layer of karst limestone riddled with cracks, fissures and caverns. It could affect local wells and fish hatcheries; springs in this area are the source not only of Otsego Lake but of the Susquehanna River, which starts there. 
 Of course, the sacrifice of much of upstate New York in the name of saving the planet would be admirable and noble if it was clear that wind power would play a major role in combating global warming. But a recent study by the National Academy of Sciences casts doubt on this theory. 
 Wind is an iffy resource. It blows hard enough to generate electricity about 30 percent of the time. When wind-power companies talk of a project supplying electricity to, say, 60,000 houses, which is what the Jordanville project claims, those homes are dark and powerless 70 percent of the time. Or they would be, if it wasn't for conventional power sources, which need to be kept on line to take over when the wind drops. Realistically, Jordanville will power about 18,000 houses or less. In the trade-offs between wind power and other environmental considerations, the less wind contributes to reducing global warming, the more important other environmental factors -- including visual impact -- become. 
 So why then are we destroying large tracts of upstate New York in the name of an uncertain energy source? In part, it is because the Spitzer administration, even more than the Pataki administration did, is increasing subsidies and tax credits for these alternative energy companies. Indeed most wind companies concede that if it weren't for government support, they wouldn't be in business. 
 The Spitzer administration has introduced wording to the Clean Economic Power Supply Act that would revamp utility siting law. Its Article X would speed approval for industrial wind parks, in particular by circumventing home rule and the State Environmental Quality Review Act, the cornerstone of the state's environmental laws, which is responsible for determining whether local ordinances conform with state environmental law when a town or municipality accepts or rejects a project. 
 But what we need to do is strengthen the siting provisions in the Clean Economic Power Supply Act. Three bills that are before the State Senate would impose moratoriums on wind projects while siting guidelines are established and the effects of a project on neighboring areas are assessed. One of the bills would give New York's commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation a veto on approving turbine siting. All these bills are steps in the right direction; they have critical elements that are worth incorporating into the new Article X legislation, to assure burdened upstate towns that community character and historic and scenic resources will be protected. 
 Wind has a role to play, but perhaps not as strong a one as other clean energy sources, especially those like safer nuclear energy and cleaner coal, which provide not erratic but constant energy. We need to think carefully about where we place wind farms and whether the benefits outweigh the losses. But more important, we can't let wind power, and projects like the Jordanville one, distract our attention and financial resources from better solutions for saving our planet. Wind may be something of a red herring hidden inside a pork barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); RELIGION (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); WRITERS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

COMPANY: IBERDROLA SA (58%)

TICKER: IBE (MCE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



46 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HIGHBRIDGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: A Much-Loved Library, Locked for Two Years

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
Like other parents in the Highbridge section of the South Bronx, Yesenia Mercado sees her local library branch on West 168th Street as more than just a repository of books. 
 She sees it as a safe refuge for her 12-year-old son, Justin, during after-school hours. For Justin, it is also a place to quietly do homework, pursue research on the Internet and get tutorial help as many as three afternoons a week.
''The stuff he's learning, it's things I don't even know,'' said Ms. Mercado, who is 34 and unemployed. ''You know, the technology with these kids.''
 But the news that their much-used library will close tomorrow for a two-year renovation has rattled Ms. Mercado and other Highbridge residents.
 ''If you go there after 2, you find it filled with children until they close at 6,'' said Anita Antonetti, a high school counselor and former community board member who has been involved in efforts to temporarily relocate some library services. ''It's a lot more than the books.'' 
 Besides its use by children, the library is patronized heavily by elderly people seeking a place to cool off in the summer, said Ms. Antonetti, and by Highbridge residents who seek the free Internet access.
 Anthony Calnek, the vice president of communications and marketing for the New York Public Library system, explained that the $5 million renovation will add 2,100 square feet to the 8,300-square-foot building and will include expanded children's and adult reading rooms, a community room, 24 new computer stations, a raised roof and wireless Internet service. It is scheduled for completion in the spring of 2009.
 Mr. Calnek said that the library's book collection will be distributed between the Highbridge Community Life Center, a nonprofit group, and Public School 11, and will be accessible during the branch's period of closure. Neighbors are also being encouraged to visit other libraries a city bus ride away, including the Grand Concourse branch library on East 173rd Street and the Melrose branch library at 910 Melrose Avenue. 
 Still, Mr. Calnek conceded that the Highbridge library's closing leaves a gap in the community. ''There's no one-size-fits-all solution to this problem,'' he said.
 Ms. Antonetti countered that opening a temporary library with the same hours, space and services would have been a good solution. 
 ''We see that there's money for things like the new stadium,'' she said, referring to the new billion-dollar Yankee Stadium under construction nearby. ''But there's not much money for people in the community.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Packing up at the Highbridge branch, soon to close. (Photo by Rob Bennett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



47 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 5164 words

HEADLINE: When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten?

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Weil. 
Elizabeth Weil is a contributing writer for the magazine. Her most recent article was about lethal injection.

 BODY:
According to the apple-or-coin test, used in the Middle Ages, children should start school when they are mature enough for the delayed gratification and abstract reasoning involved in choosing money over fruit. In 15th- and 16th-century Germany, parents were told to send their children to school when the children started to act ''rational.'' And in contemporary America, children are deemed eligible to enter kindergarten according to an arbitrary date on the calendar known as the birthday cutoff -- that is, when the state, or in some instances the school district, determines they are old enough. The birthday cutoffs span six months, from Indiana, where a child must turn 5 by July 1 of the year he enters kindergarten, to Connecticut, where he must turn 5 by Jan. 1 of his kindergarten year. Children can start school a year late, but in general they cannot start a year early. As a result, when the 22 kindergartners entered Jane Andersen's class at the Glen Arden Elementary School near Asheville, N.C., one warm April morning, each brought with her or him a snack and a unique set of gifts and challenges, which included for some what's referred to in education circles as ''the gift of time.'' 
After the morning announcements and the Pledge of Allegiance, Andersen's kindergartners sat down on a blue rug. Two, one boy and one girl, had been redshirted -- the term, borrowed from sports, describes students held out for a year by their parents so that they will be older, or larger, or more mature, and thus better prepared to handle the increased pressures of kindergarten today. Six of Andersen's pupils, on the other hand, were quite young, so young that they would not be enrolled in kindergarten at all if North Carolina succeeds in pushing back its birthday cutoff from Oct. 16 to Aug. 31. 
 Andersen is a willowy 11-year teaching veteran who offered up a lot of education in the first hour of class. First she read Leo Lionni's classic children's book ''An Extraordinary Egg,'' and directed a conversation about it. Next she guided the students through: writing a letter; singing a song; solving an addition problem; two more songs; and a math game involving counting by ones, fives and tens using coins. Finally, Andersen read them another Lionni book. Labor economists who study what's called the accumulation of human capital -- how we acquire the knowledge and skills that make us valuable members of society -- have found that children learn vastly different amounts from the same classroom experiences and that those with certain advantages at the outset are able to learn more, more quickly, causing the gap between students to increase over time. Gaps in achievement have many causes, but a major one in any kindergarten room is age. Almost all kindergarten classrooms have children with birthdays that span 12 months. But because of redshirting, the oldest student in Andersen's class is not just 12 but 15 months older than the youngest, a difference in age of 25 percent.
 After rug time, Andersen's kindergartners walked single-file to P.E. class, where the children sat on the curb alongside the parking circle, taking turns running laps for the Presidential Fitness Test. By far the fastest runner was the girl in class who had been redshirted. She strode confidently, with great form, while many of the smaller kids could barely run straight. One of the younger girls pointed out the best artist in the class, a freckly redhead. I'd already noted his beautiful penmanship. He had been redshirted as well. 
 States, too, are trying to embrace the advantages of redshirting. Since 1975, nearly half of all states have pushed back their birthday cutoffs and four -- California, Michigan, North Carolina and Tennessee -- have active legislation in state assemblies to do so right now. (Arkansas passed legislation earlier this spring; New Jersey, which historically has let local districts establish their birthday cutoffs, has legislation pending to make Sept. 1 the cutoff throughout the state.) This is due, in part, to the accountability movement -- the high-stakes testing now pervasive in the American educational system. In response to this testing, kindergartens across the country have become more demanding: if kids must be performing on standardized tests in third grade, then they must be prepping for those tests in second and first grades, and even at the end of kindergarten, or so the thinking goes. The testing also means that states, like students, now get report cards, and they want their children to do well, both because they want them to be educated and because they want them to stack up favorably against their peers. 
 Indeed, increasing the average age of the children in a kindergarten class is a cheap and easy way to get a small bump in test scores, because older children perform better, and states' desires for relative advantage is written into their policy briefs. The California Performance Review, commissioned by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger in 2004, suggested moving California's birthday cutoff three months earlier, to Sept. 1 from Dec. 2, noting that ''38 states, including Florida and Texas, have kindergarten entry dates prior to California's.'' Maryland's proposal to move its date mentioned that ''the change . . . will align the 'cutoff' date with most of the other states in the country.''
 All involved in increasing the age of kindergartners -- parents, legislatures and some teachers -- say they have the best interests of children in mind. ''If I had just one goal with this piece of legislation it would be to not humiliate a child,'' Dale Folwell, the Republican North Carolina state representative who sponsored the birthday-cutoff bill, told me. ''Our kids are younger when they're taking the SAT, and they're applying to the same colleges as the kids from Florida and Georgia.'' Fair enough -- governors and state legislators have competitive impulses, too. Still, the question remains: Is it better for children to start kindergarten later? And even if it's better for a given child, is it good for children in general? Time out of school may not be a gift to all kids. For some it may be a burden, a financial stress on their parents and a chance, before they ever reach a classroom, to fall even further behind. 
 Redshirting is not a new phenomenon -- in fact, the percentage of redshirted children has held relatively steady since education scholars started tracking the practice in the 1980s. Studies by the National Center for Education Statistics in the 1990s show that delayed-entry children made up somewhere between 6 and 9 percent of all kindergartners; a new study is due out in six months. As states roll back birthday cutoffs, there are more older kindergartners in general -- and more redshirted kindergartners who are even older than the oldest kindergartners in previous years. Recently, redshirting has become a particular concern, because in certain affluent communities the numbers of kindergartners coming to school a year later are three or four times the national average. ''Do you know what the number is in my district?'' Representative Folwell, from a middle-class part of Winston-Salem, N.C., asked me. ''Twenty-six percent.'' In one kindergarten I visited in Los Altos, Calif. -- average home price, $1 million -- about one-quarter of the kids had been electively held back as well. Fred Morrison, a developmental psychologist at the University of Michigan who has studied the impact of falling on one side or the other of the birthday cutoff, sees the endless ''graying of kindergarten,'' as it's sometimes called, as coming from a parental obsession not with their children's academic accomplishment but with their social maturity. ''You couldn't find a kid who skips a grade these days,'' Morrison told me. ''We used to revere individual accomplishment. Now we revere self-esteem, and the reverence has snowballed in unconscious ways -- into parents always wanting their children to feel good, wanting everything to be pleasant.'' So parents wait an extra year in the hope that when their children enter school their age or maturity will shield them from social and emotional hurt. Elizabeth Levett Fortier, a kindergarten teacher in the George Peabody Elementary School in San Francisco, notices the impact on her incoming students. ''I've had children come into my classroom, and they've never even lost at Candy Land.'' 
 For years, education scholars have pointed out that most studies have found that the benefits of being relatively older than one's classmates disappear after the first few years of school. In a literature review published in 2002, Deborah Stipek, dean of the Stanford school of education, found studies in which children who are older than their classmates not only do not learn more per grade but also tend to have more behavior problems. However, more recent research by labor economists takes advantage of new, very large data sets and has produced different results. A few labor economists do concur with the education scholarship, but most have found that while absolute age (how many days a child has been alive) is not so important, relative age (how old that child is in comparison to his classmates) shapes performance long after those few months of maturity should have ceased to matter. The relative-age effect has been found in schools around the world and also in sports. In one study published in the June 2005 Journal of Sport Sciences, researchers from Leuven, Belgium, and Liverpool, England, found that a disproportionate number of World Cup soccer players are born in January, February and March, meaning they were old relative to peers on youth soccer teams. 
 Before the school year started, Andersen, who is 54, taped up on the wall behind her desk a poster of a dog holding a bouquet of 12 balloons. In each balloon Andersen wrote the name of a month; under each month, the birthdays of the children in her class. Like most teachers, she understands that the small fluctuations among birth dates aren't nearly as important as the vast range in children's experiences at preschool and at home. But one day as we sat in her classroom, Andersen told me, ''Every year I have two or three young ones in that August-to-October range, and they just struggle a little.'' She used to encourage parents to send their children to kindergarten as soon as they were eligible, but she is now a strong proponent of older kindergartners, after teaching one child with a birthday just a few days before the cutoff. ''She was always a step behind. It wasn't effort and it wasn't ability. She worked hard, her mom worked with her and she still was behind.'' Andersen followed the girl's progress through second grade (after that, she moved to a different school) and noticed that she didn't catch up. Other teachers at Glen Arden Elementary and elsewhere have noticed a similar phenomenon: not always, but too often, the little ones stay behind. 
 The parents of the redshirted girl in Andersen's class told a similar story. Five years ago, their older daughter had just made the kindergarten birthday cutoff by a few days, and they enrolled her. ''She's now a struggling fourth grader: only by the skin of her teeth has she been able to pass each year,'' the girl's mother, Stephanie Gandert, told me. ''I kick myself every year now that we sent her ahead.'' By contrast, their current kindergartner is doing just fine. ''I always tell parents, 'If you can wait, wait.' If my kindergartner were in first grade right now, she'd be in trouble, too.'' (The parents of the redshirted boy in Andersen's class declined to be interviewed for this article but may very well have held him back because he's small -- even though he's now one of the oldest, he's still one of the shortest.)
 Kelly Bedard, a labor economist at the University of California, Santa Barbara, published a paper called ''The Persistence of Early Childhood Maturity: International Evidence of Long-Run Age Effects'' in The Quarterly Journal of Economics in November 2006 that looked at this phenomenon. ''Obviously, when you're 5, being a year older is a lot, and so we should expect kids who are the oldest in kindergarten to do better than the kids who are the youngest in kindergarten,'' Bedard says. But what if relatively older kids keep doing better after the maturity gains of a few months should have ceased to matter? What if kids who are older relative to their classmates still have higher test scores in fourth grade, or eighth grade? 
 After crunching the math and science test scores for nearly a quarter-million students across 19 countries, Bedard found that relatively younger students perform 4 to 12 percentiles less well in third and fourth grade and 2 to 9 percentiles worse in seventh and eighth; and, as she notes, ''by eighth grade it's fairly safe to say we're looking at long-term effects.'' In British Columbia, she found that the relatively oldest students are about 10 percent more likely to be ''university bound'' than the relatively youngest ones. In the United States, she found that the relatively oldest students are 7.7 percent more likely to take the SAT or ACT, and are 11.6 percent more likely to enroll in four-year colleges or universities. (No one has yet published a study on age effects and SAT scores.) ''One reason you could imagine age effects persist is that almost all of our education systems have ability-groupings built into them,'' Bedard says. ''Many claim they don't, but they do. Everybody gets put into reading groups and math groups from very early ages.'' Younger children are more likely to be assigned behind grade level, older children more likely to be assigned ahead. Younger children are more likely to receive diagnoses of attention-deficit disorder, too. ''When I was in school the reading books all had colors,'' Bedard told me. ''They never said which was the high, the middle and the low, but everybody knew. Kids in the highest reading group one year are much more likely to be in the highest reading group the next. So you can imagine how that could propagate itself.'' 
 Bedard found that different education systems produce varying age effects. For instance, Finland, whose students recently came out on top in an Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development study of math, reading and science skills, experiences smaller age effects; Finnish children also start school later, at age 7, and even then the first few years are largely devoted to social development and play. Denmark, too, produces little difference between relatively older and younger kids; the Danish education system prohibits differentiating by ability until students are 16. Those two exceptions notwithstanding, Bedard notes that she found age effects everywhere, from ''the Japanese system of automatic promotion, to the accomplishment-oriented French system, to the supposedly more flexible skill-based program models used in Canada and the United States.''
 The relative value of being older for one's grade is a particularly open secret in those sectors of the American schooling system that treat education like a competitive sport. Many private-school birthday cutoffs are set earlier than public-school dates; and children, particularly boys, who make the cutoff but have summer and sometimes spring birthdays are often placed in junior kindergarten -- also called ''transitional kindergarten,'' a sort of holding tank for kids too old for more preschool -- or are encouraged to wait a year to apply. Erika O'Brien, a SoHo mother who has two redshirted children at Grace Church, a pre-K-through-8 private school in Manhattan, told me about a conversation she had with a friend whose daughter was placed in junior kindergarten because she had a summer birthday. ''I told her that it's really a great thing. Her daughter is going to have a better chance of being at the top of her class, she'll more likely be a leader, she'll have a better chance of succeeding at sports. She's got nothing to worry about for the next nine years. Plus, if you're making a financial investment in school, it's a less risky investment.''
 Robert Fulghum listed life lessons in his 1986 best seller ''All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten.'' Among them were:
 Clean up your own mess.
 Don't take things that aren't yours.
 Wash your hands before you eat.
 Take a nap every afternoon.
 Flush.
 Were he to update the book to reflect the experience of today's children, he'd need to call it ''All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Preschool,'' as kindergarten has changed. The half day devoted to fair play and nice manners officially began its demise in 1983, when the National Commission on Excellence in Education published ''A Nation at Risk,'' warning that the country faced a ''rising tide of mediocrity'' unless we increased school achievement and expectations. No Child Left Behind, in 2002, exacerbated the trend, pushing phonics and pattern-recognition worksheets even further down the learning chain. As a result, many parents, legislatures and teachers find the current curriculum too challenging for many older 4- and young 5-year-olds, which makes sense, because it's largely the same curriculum taught to first graders less than a generation ago. Andersen's kindergartners are supposed to be able to not just read but also write two sentences by the time they graduate from her classroom. It's no wonder that nationwide, teachers now report that 48 percent of incoming kindergartners have difficulty handling the demands of school. 
 Friedrich Froebel, the romantic motherless son who started the first kindergarten in Germany in 1840, would be horrified by what's called kindergarten today. He conceived the early learning experience as a homage to Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who believed that ''reading is the plague of childhood. . . . Books are good only for learning to babble about what one does not know.'' Letters and numbers were officially banned from Froebel's kindergartens; the teaching materials consisted of handmade blocks and games that he referred to as ''gifts.'' By the late 1800s, kindergarten had jumped to the United States, with Boston transcendentalists like Elizabeth Peabody popularizing the concept. Fairly quickly, letters and numbers appeared on the wooden blocks, yet Peabody cautioned that a ''genuine'' kindergarten is ''a company of children under 7 years old, who do not learn to read, write and cipher'' and a ''false'' kindergarten is one that accommodates parents who want their children studying academics instead of just playing.
 That the social skills and exploration of one's immediate world have been squeezed out of kindergarten is less the result of a pedagogical shift than of the accountability movement and the literal-minded reverse-engineering process it has brought to the schools. Curriculum planners no longer ask, What does a 5-year-old need? Instead they ask, If a student is to pass reading and math tests in third grade, what does that student need to be doing in the prior grades? Whether kindergarten students actually need to be older is a question of readiness, a concept that itself raises the question: Ready for what? The skill set required to succeed in Fulgham's kindergarten -- openness, creativity -- is well matched to the capabilities of most 5-year-olds but also substantially different from what Andersen's students need. In early 2000, the National Center for Education Statistics assessed 22,000 kindergartners individually and found, in general, that yes, the older children are better prepared to start an academic kindergarten than the younger ones. The older kids are four times as likely to be reading, and two to three times as likely to be able to decipher two-digit numerals. Twice as many older kids have the advanced fine motor skills necessary for writing. The older kids also have important noncognitive advantages, like being more persistent and more socially adept. Nonetheless, child advocacy groups say it's the schools' responsibility to be ready for the children, no matter their age, not the children's to be prepared for the advanced curriculum. In a report on kindergarten, the National Association of Early Childhood Specialists in State Departments of Education wrote, ''Most of the questionable entry and placement practices that have emerged in recent years have their genesis in concerns over children's capacities to cope with the increasingly inappropriate curriculum in kindergarten.'' 
 Furthermore, as Elizabeth Graue, a former kindergarten teacher who now studies school-readiness and redshirting at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, points out, ''Readiness is a relative issue.'' Studies of early-childhood teachers show they always complain about the youngest students, no matter their absolute age. 'In Illinois it will be the March-April-May kids; in California, it will be October-November-December,'' Graue says. ''It's really natural as a teacher to gravitate toward the kids who are easy to teach, especially when there's academic pressure and the younger kids are rolling around the floor and sticking pencils in their ears.''
 But perhaps those kids with the pencils in their ears -- at least the less-affluent ones -- don't need ''the gift of time'' but rather to be brought into the schools. Forty-two years after Lyndon Johnson inaugurated Head Start, access to quality early education still highly correlates with class; and one serious side effect of pushing back the cutoffs is that while well-off kids with delayed enrollment will spend another year in preschool, probably doing what kindergartners did a generation ago, less-well-off children may, as the literacy specialist Katie Eller put it, spend ''another year watching TV in the basement with Grandma.'' What's more, given the socioeconomics of redshirting -- and the luxury involved in delaying for a year the free day care that is public school -- the oldest child in any given class is more likely to be well off and the youngest child is more likely to be poor. ''You almost have a double advantage coming to the well-off kids,'' says Samuel J. Meisels, president of Erikson Institute, a graduate school in child development in Chicago. ''From a public-policy point of view I find this very distressing.''
 Nobody has exact numbers on what percentage of the children eligible for publicly financed preschool are actually enrolled -- the individual programs are legion, and the eligibility requirements are complicated and varied -- but the best guess from the National Institute for Early Education Research puts the proportion at only 25 percent. In California, for instance, 76 percent of publicly financed preschool programs have waiting lists, which include over 30,000 children. In Pennsylvania, 35 percent of children eligible for Head Start are not served. A few states do have universal preschool, and among Hillary Clinton's first broad domestic policy proposals as a Democratic presidential candidate was to call for universal pre-kindergarten classes. But at the moment, free high-quality preschool for less-well-to-do children is spotty, and what exists often is aimed at extremely low-income parents, leaving out the children of the merely strapped working or lower-middle class. Nor, as a rule, do publicly financed programs take kids who are old enough to be eligible for kindergarten, meaning redshirting is not a realistic option for many. 
 One morning, when I was sitting in Elizabeth Levett Fortier's kindergarten classroom in the Peabody School in San Francisco -- among a group of students that included some children who had never been to preschool, some who were just learning English and some who were already reading -- a father dropped by to discuss whether or not to enroll his fall-birthday daughter or give her one more year at her private preschool. Demographically speaking, any child with a father willing to call on a teacher to discuss if it's best for that child to spend a third year at a $10,000-a-year preschool is going to be fine. Andersen told me, ''I've had parents tell me that the preschool did not recommend sending their children on to kindergarten yet, but they had no choice,'' as they couldn't afford not to. In 49 out of 50 states, the average annual cost of day care for a 4-year-old in an urban area is more than the average annual public college tuition. A RAND Corporation position paper suggests policy makers may need to view ''entrance-age policies and child-care polices as a package.''
 Labor economists, too, make a strong case that resources should be directed at disadvantaged children as early as possible, both for the sake of improving each child's life and because of economic return. Among the leaders in this field is James Heckman, a University of Chicago economist who won the Nobel in economic science in 2000. In many papers and lectures on poor kids, he now includes a simple graph that plots the return on investment in human capital across age. You can think of the accumulation of human capital much like the accumulation of financial capital in an account bearing compound interest: if you add your resources as soon as possible, they'll be worth more down the line. Heckman's graph looks like a skateboard quarter-pipe, sloping precipitously from a high point during the preschool years, when the return on investment in human capital is very high, down the ramp and into the flat line after a person is no longer in school, when the return on investment is minimal. According to Heckman's analysis, if you have limited funds to spend it makes the most economic sense to spend them early. The implication is that if poor children aren't in adequate preschool programs, rolling back the age of kindergarten is a bad idea economically, as it pushes farther down the ramp the point at which we start investing funds and thus how productive those funds will be.
 Bedard and other economists cite Heckman's theories of how people acquire skills to help explain the persistence of relative age on school performance. Heckman writes: ''Skill begets skill; motivation begets motivation. Early failure begets later failure.'' Reading experts know that it's easier for a child to learn the meaning of a new word if he knows the meaning of a related word and that a good vocabulary at age 3 predicts a child's reading well in third grade. Skills like persistence snowball, too. One can easily see how the skill-begets-skill, motivation-begets-motivation dynamic plays out in a kindergarten setting: a child who comes in with a good vocabulary listens to a story, learns more words, feels great about himself and has an even better vocabulary at the end of the day. Another child arrives with a poor vocabulary, listens to the story, has a hard time following, picks up fewer words, retreats into insecurity and leaves the classroom even further behind. 
 How to address the influence of age effects is unclear. After all, being on the older or younger side of one's classmates is mostly the luck of the birthday draw, and no single birthday cutoff can prevent a 12-month gap in age. States could try to prevent parents from gaming the age effects by outlawing redshirting -- specifically by closing the yearlong window that now exists in most states between the birthday cutoffs and compulsory schooling. But forcing families to enroll children in kindergarten as soon as they are eligible seems too authoritarian for America's tastes. States could also decide to learn from Finland -- start children in school at age 7 and devote the first year to play -- but that would require a major reversal, making second grade the old kindergarten, instead of kindergarten the new first grade. States could also emulate Denmark, forbidding ability groupings until late in high school, but unless very serious efforts are made to close the achievement gap before children arrive at kindergarten, that seems unlikely, too. 
 Of course there's also the reality that individual children will always mature at different rates, and back in Andersen's classroom, on a Thursday when this year's kindergartners stayed home and next year's kindergartners came in for pre-enrollment assessments, the developmental differences between one future student and the next were readily apparent. To gauge kindergarten readiness, Andersen and another kindergarten teacher each sat the children down one by one for a 20-minute test. The teachers asked the children, among other things, to: skip; jump; walk backward; cut out a diamond on a dotted line; copy the word cat; draw a person; listen to a story; and answer simple vocabulary questions like what melts, what explodes and what flies. Some of the kids were dynamos. When asked to explain the person he had drawn, one boy said: ''That's Miss Maple. She's my preschool teacher, and she's crying because she's going to miss me so much next year.'' Another girl said at one point, ''Oh, you want me to write the word cat?'' Midmorning, however, a little boy who will not turn 5 until this summer arrived. His little feet dangled off the kindergarten chair, as his legs were not long enough to reach the floor. The teacher asked him to draw a person. To pass that portion of the test, his figure needed seven different body parts. 
 ''Is that all he needs?'' she asked a few minutes later. 
 The boy said, ''Oh, I forgot the head.'' 
 A minute later the boy submitted his drawing again. ''Are you sure he doesn't need anything else?'' the teacher asked.
 The boy stared at his work. ''I forgot the legs. Those are important, aren't they?''
 The most difficult portion of the test for many of the children was a paper-folding exercise. ''Watch how I fold my paper,'' the teacher told the little boy. She first folded her 8 1/2-by-11-inch paper in half the long way, to create a narrow rectangle, and then she folded the rectangle in thirds, to make something close to a square. 
 ''Can you do it?'' she asked the boy. 
 He took the paper eagerly, but folded it in half the wrong way. Depending on the boy's family's finances, circumstances and mind-set, his parents may decide to hold him out a year so he'll be one of the oldest and, presumably, most confident. Or they may decide to enroll him in school as planned. He may go to college or he may not. He may be a leader or a follower. Those things will ultimately depend more on the education level achieved by his mother, whether he lives in a two-parent household and the other assets and obstacles he brings with him to school each day. Still, the last thing any child needs is to be outmaneuvered by other kids' parents as they cut to the back of the birthday line to manipulate age effects. Eventually, the boy put his head down on the table. His first fold had set a course, and even after trying gamely to fold the paper again in thirds, he couldn't create the right shape. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 3 about the age that children start kindergarten omitted the name of an author of a seminal paper that analyzed the topic. The co-author (with Kelly Bedard) of ''The Persistence of Early Childhood Maturity: International Evidence of Long-Run Age Effects'' is Elizabeth Dhuey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Photo illustration by Chris Buck 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



48 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; PUBLIC HOUSING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: In Post-Lawsuit Yonkers, the City's Landlord Is Center Stage

BYLINE: By ABBY GRUEN

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
AT 62, Joseph Shuldiner is an unlikely landlord. A tenant advocate in his 20s and 30s, he had rented his whole life until moving into his own home for the first time this year after taking over as executive director of the Yonkers Municipal Housing Authority. 
 Now, he is one of the city's most influential landlords, responsible for more than 4,000 public housing and rent-subsidized units. 
Since settling in full time on April 9 -- he started part time in January while finishing a consulting contract in Chicago -- he has been visiting the 19 projects he oversees, meeting with tenants to introduce himself and the new managers he has appointed at each project.
 ''Call me Joe,'' Mr. Shuldiner said last month at the William A. Walsh Homes, a senior citizens' complex, where an audience of more than 75 residents filled the top-floor community room. A tinsel-covered nylon Christmas tree and a well-used bingo board faced a wall of windows with panoramic views of Yonkers.
 To the west, the new train station and luxury condominiums that have opened along the Hudson River are the first signs of a renaissance in Yonkers. But that growth is also having an enormous impact on the public housing sector. 
 The city's 27-year lawsuit with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, over segregationist policies that concentrated most of its public housing units in western Yonkers, was finally resolved last month, and the city has begun a $180 million urban-renewal project that includes replacing Mulford Gardens, the city's largest and oldest public housing project, with mixed-income housing. 
 ''Right now, public housing is in transition,'' said Peter A. Smith, 65, Mr. Shuldiner's predecessor, who retired in January after 33 years. ''Westchester is in a crisis. The agency is facing a challenge to generate more housing and maintain the housing stock that does exist in a sustainable way in the future.''
 Mr. Smith said he was thrilled that Mr. Shuldiner had taken the job. Mr. Shuldiner, who is married with two grown children, has run housing agencies in New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles, and spent about three years in Washington as the assistant secretary of Public and Indian Housing.
 ''Joe has the wealth of knowledge to know what opportunities can fit into the different development schemes,'' Mr. Smith said.
 The 10-year redevelopment plan by the developers, Struever Fidelco Cappelli, a partnership of three major East Coast companies, includes billions of dollars in private investment in real estate, with 6 percent of the residential units designated as affordable housing. The plan's first phase is called River Park Center, which includes two of Yonkers's largest housing projects, the William A. Schlobohm Houses and Ross F. Calcagno Houses.
 ''The question is, Where do we fit in?'' Mr. Shuldiner said in an interview last month in his office at Charles L. Curran Court, a complex for the elderly. ''Most of our remaining family units are in the area that is part of the redevelopment of the downtown. The flip side of concentrating all of the public housing in one neighborhood is that this is now the hot neighborhood.''
 With a mandate to look for new public housing opportunities, Mr. Shuldiner also has to reorganize the housing authority's operations to be consistent with new federal housing regulations for decentralized asset management. 
 There are now seven full-time, on-site superintendents and managers who, instead of simply passing rents up to the central office, will use the money to maintain and improve their buildings with input from residents.
 At the William A. Walsh Homes, Mr. Shuldiner told residents about one way they could spend their money differently.
 ''Right now, you have 4 guards, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,'' Mr. Shuldiner said. ''That costs you $500,000 a year. We need to decide where we want to channel that money.''
 Security eats up 70 percent of the authority's annual capital budget. ''That's money we could be spending on new boilers and roofs,'' said Mr. Shuldiner, who has begun talking to tenant groups about alternate security systems, like keeping buildings locked and using intercoms to limit access and guards to monitor security cameras.
 He has also met twice with Edmund Hartnett, the Yonkers police commissioner, to discuss strategies for keeping projects' borders secure.
 ''We're talking about alternative ways of policing,'' said Commissioner Hartnett, who came to Yonkers from the New York Police Department six months ago. ''I think it will be a good partnership.''
 Queen E. Ramsay, 71, head of the tenant organization at the William A. Walsh Homes, liked what she heard at the meeting with Mr. Shuldiner. 
 ''I think Joe is going to be fantastic,'' Ms. Ramsay said. ''He is a strong person. I have a good feeling that he will straighten things out.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW MANDATE -- Joseph Shuldiner, head of the Municipal Housing Authority. (Photo by Rob Bennett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); CHRISTMAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



49 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; CHILD NUTRITION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Two Mothers, a Camera And a Look at School Lunch

BYLINE: By JULI S. CHARKES

DATELINE: BEDFORD 

 BODY:
IN her quest to improve the quality of food in America's public schools, Susan P. Rubin has tried several tactics. She has emptied a bag of vending machine items onto a principal's desk; she has delivered impassioned testimony to members of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies in Washington while holding up potato chips and lollipops; and she has sneaked cafeteria food out of her children's school after being barred from showing up without an appointment. 
 But her latest strategy may be her most effective: ''Two Angry Moms,'' a 90-minute documentary featuring Ms. Rubin and directed by the other angry mom, Amy Kalafa, a filmmaker from Weston, Conn. 
 The film presents the good (a schoolyard in Katonah where students grow their own vegetables), the bad (chips and soda for lunch), and the ugly (what it is really like inside a school cafeteria kitchen). 
 ''This film is for all the women in every town of Westchester and beyond who are banging their heads against the wall,'' Ms. Rubin, 47, a former dentist, said last month from her office in Bedford, where she runs a nutrition counseling practice and lives nearby with her husband and three daughters, ages 16, 14 and 9.
 ''I used to go into schools and nurseries and do tooth talks,'' she said. ''And I would be just shocked at what kids were eating.''
 Ms. Rubin formed an advocacy group, Better School Food, whose membership has grown to 750 in two years. In her office last month, days before a screening in Fairfield, Conn. -- another is scheduled this fall at the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville -- Ms. Rubin addressed what she hopes parents will take away from the movie: that students are at the mercy of schools that are harming their health, impairing their ability to learn and jeopardizing their economic future. 
 ''This is a national security issue,'' she said. ''Without adequate nutrition, we will not have future leaders.''
 Ready at her fingertips are the alarming statistics: Since 1980 obesity rates have doubled among children and tripled among adolescents, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The film notes the growing number of children with asthma and allergies, which some experts believe is linked to diet. 
 Ms. Rubin said she was encouraged in April when Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed the Healthy Food Act, which would essentially eliminate most junk food from schools and replace it with fruits and vegetables.
 Not all schools share Ms. Rubin's alarm. ''This district works hard to include everyone's voice at the table,'' said Martin M. Fitzgerald, the principal of the Robert E. Bell Middle School in Chappaqua. ''But there are sometimes parents who can be frustrated by the pace of change. 
 ''There are many challenges to take into account when planning school lunch, including the eating habits of children. We promote health, but it's not as obvious as people think.''
 The Katonah-Lewisboro School District is featured in ''Two Angry Moms'' as an undisputed success. With Ms. Rubin's encouragement, the district changed its lunch policy, even hiring an outside chef to train food service staff.
 ''We went from refrying processed chicken nuggets to grilling fresh chicken breasts and making homemade apple crisp,'' said Donna D. Walsh, a member of the Katonah-Lewisboro Board of Education.
 Ms. Rubin and Ms. Kalafa plan to spend the summer trying to raise money for the film's national distribution in the fall and responding to media requests. ''There is no question there is a tipping point about to happen,'' Ms. Rubin said. ''It's all coming to a crucial crossroads where parents, schools and legislators have to connect the dots between the health of their children and what they are eating.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FOOD FIGHTERS -- At right, a scene filmed at Meadow Pond Elementary School in South Salem from ''Two Angry Moms,'' a documentary by Amy Kalafa, above right, that features Susan P. Rubin, far left, the founder of Better School Food. (Photos by Susan Woog Wagner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); NUTRITION (88%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); SNACK FOODS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); OBESITY (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (60%); ASTHMA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



50 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Demand for School Chiefs Pushes Salaries Up

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
SALARIES for school superintendents rose at a rate well above inflation in Westchester last year, according to new state figures. School board officials attribute the increase to the difficulty of finding candidates capable of meeting the high expectations of suburban parents and homeowners.
 In Mount Vernon, for example, the school board is searching for a replacement for its superintendent, Brenda L. Smith, who is retiring at the end of the school year to work for an international church ministry. The board has budgeted just under $317,000 in salary and benefits to hire a new superintendent, an increase of nearly $100,000, or 45 percent. 
''In order to entice anyone to come into Westchester, we had to be competitive with the rest of the salaries in Westchester,'' said Lynn McBride, the school board president in Mount Vernon, one of the county's least wealthy districts. ''Our superintendent has been one of the lowest paid.'' 
 She said the actual pay and benefits for the new superintendent could end up being lower, depending on the candidate and negotiations.
 For 2007-8, the median pay package for the top job in the county's 39 districts is $288,400, including salary and benefits -- an increase of 7.1 percent from 2006-7, according to data the districts reported to the state. Thirteen superintendents will make more than $300,000 in total compensation next school year; seven did so in 2006-7. 
 Robert J. Roelle, the Ossining superintendent, is the highest paid public school executive in Westchester, with salary and benefits worth more than $345,000 in 2007-8.
 Superintendents' pay has been rising about 6 percent to 7 percent a year for the last three years, mirroring other costs in school districts, which have also been rising more sharply than the inflation rate of 3 percent.
 The median pay package for assistant superintendents rose 5.1 percent, to $208,250. And teachers' salaries rise about 5 percent to 6 percent a year, district officials say.
 Westchester's administrators are the best paid in the state, by a wide margin. The median salary for superintendents is 16 percent higher than on Long Island, and 66 percent higher than the state median of $173,400.
 At a time when residents are complaining about high property taxes, and the state is sending millions of new dollars to suburban school districts, Westchester districts now pay about $10.8 million, an increase of 18 percent since 2004-5, for the superintendents who oversee the education of 122,000 students. 
 School board officials say they see little alternative to the continued increase in salaries, but also say they have little difficulty justifying the cost to voters.
 The superintendent in Briarcliff Manor, Frances G. Wills, will get a 9.5 percent raise in pay and benefits next year, to nearly $314,000.
 Susan Bodansky, the school board president, said: ''We want to pay her what we feel she deserves and what's comparable with others in the county, and the amount commensurate with the work she gives us. To get a new superintendent would be an extremely expensive proposition in money and time, and I don't know if we would get someone as good as she is.''
 A survey by the New York State Council of School Superintendents in 2006 found more and more districts offering higher pay and incentives to keep superintendents. The average age of superintendents is increasing, because educators are taking the job later in their careers, and the average term of a superintendent is shrinking, said Robert N. Lowry Jr., the council's deputy director.
 ''We found an increase in the number of superintendents with incentives in their contracts to encourage them to stay in their current district -- from 13.3 percent in 2003, to 26.7 percent in 2006,'' Mr. Lowry said in an e-mail message.
 Residents may express alarm at the compensation levels, school board members say, yet they also demand that their school districts maintain reputations for high quality and achievement.
 ''Community expectations are extremely high,'' said Lois Winkler, vice president of the Westchester-Putnam School Boards Association and a school board member in Pleasantville. ''The community wants a lot for their children, and they're very vocal about it.''
 Voters, who can reject school budgets in public elections, have been willing to put up with large increases in property taxes in recent years. ''I guess most people believe in the public school system,'' said Ms. McBride of Mount Vernon, where voters approved a 6.5 percent increase in the tax levy on May 15 for a budget that contained the big increase in superintendent salary and benefits. ''They're grateful we are trying to keep the taxes as low as we can.''
 State law requires school districts to report the salaries of their top administrators and any principals who make more than $110,000. Most districts comply, but some do not, and state officials say they have no authority to compel them.
 The salaries of Westchester school administrators are not out of line with other school costs. At 1.84 percent of total budgets, on average, the county's administrative costs are below the median for the state, which was 2 percent, according to figures reported to the state in 2005. 
 Census figures released last week show that Westchester and Long Island rank at the top among more than 10,000 school districts across the country in spending per pupil, except for a few in sparsely populated areas that must hire more teachers to reach far-flung students. Among districts with more than 250 students, 13 of the top 24 were on Long Island or in Westchester, with the rest in Alaska and Wyoming. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: HELP WANTED -- Lynn McBride, far left, is president of the Mount Vernon school board, which has budgeted just under $317,000 in compensation for a successor to the district's superintendent, Brenda L. Smith, who is retiring.''We had to be competitive with the rest of the salaries in Westchester,'' Ms. McBride said. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) Chart: ''The Top 10'' The school districts in Westchester County with the highest pay for their superintendents in 2007-8. SCHOOL DISTRICT 1. Ossining PAY AND BENEFITS $345,652 SCHOOL DISTRICT 2. Bedford PAY AND BENEFITS 328,973 SCHOOL DISTRICT 3. Scarsdale PAY AND BENEFITS 326,676 SCHOOL DISTRICT 4. Bronxville PAY AND BENEFITS 323,497 SCHOOL DISTRICT 5. Katonah-Lewisboro PAY AND BENEFITS 321,312 SCHOOL DISTRICT 6. Mount Vernon PAY AND BENEFITS 316,859 SCHOOL DISTRICT 7. Briarcliff Manor PAY AND BENEFITS 313,948 SCHOOL DISTRICT 8. Rye Neck PAY AND BENEFITS 312,892 SCHOOL DISTRICT 9. Byram Hills PAY AND BENEFITS 308,279 SCHOOL DISTRICT 10. Harrison PAY AND BENEFITS 308,019 (Source by New York State Education Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); SCHOOL BOARDS (92%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); INFLATION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); SUBURBS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



51 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Voice From the Slums That Refused to Be Silenced

BYLINE: By Lary Bloom. 
E-mail: conn@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WEST HARTFORD 

 BODY:
THE guest of honor on the college campus -- the author for whom the punch and pastries were prepared and the ordinary commerce of literature would be conducted -- could have been excused if she wondered whether this book signing was fictional.
 Certainly, Cindy Brown Austin wished that parts of her life had been so. At 19, living a few miles from Saint Joseph College in a Hartford slum, holding her third baby girl at her breast and swatting away roaches in the dresser drawer that served as a crib, she wondered aloud, ''Oh, Lord, is there no place on earth for me?'' 
Ms. Austin herself had been a child of Charter Oak Terrace, the public housing project where renegades became villains and mothers worried that their sons wouldn't live through the night. Her mother insisted on strict rules of conduct that Ms. Austin sometimes ignored.
 Self-esteem was an issue. A ''bastard child'' was how she referred to herself -- a daughter of strictly divided cultures. Her mother, African-American, and her father, from Jamaica, led separate lives. That Ms. Austin emerged with any hope was because of her mother's persistent love and the enduring devotion of the man she married at 17, David Austin, the father of the children -- four girls in all.
 In 1991, without credential except a high school diploma and courage, she sent an essay to Northeast, The Hartford Courant's Sunday magazine, which I edited at the time. It sat on the slush pile until a staff member said, ''Boss, you should read this.''
 ''Streets of Poison'' was about growing up in terror of the surroundings, and it had enormous emotional power. Even so, there was work to be done, as there always is in such cases, so we asked Ms. Austin to meet with us. As she interpreted it at the time, we were calling her in to reject her. Still, she bought a briefcase for 50 cents at a tag sale; she couldn't walk into a newspaper office without looking like a writer.
 Over the next few years, the byline of Cindy Brown Austin became familiar in Connecticut and to subscribers of Reader's Digest, as she wrote what no one else was writing: an intimate portrait of a city population so often portrayed in sensational headlines that reinforced stereotype.
 But though she revealed the humanity in the poorest of neighborhoods, she did not escape unscathed. As with other minority writers, she suffered criticism that she was betraying her community by airing dirty laundry. Yet she persisted, even as she prepared to become an Apostolic minister, tended to her daughters' needs and, all along, held on to the dream of going to college. As a child she had visited Trinity College, thinking of it as Oz. Her own daughters, she hoped, would earn degrees. Maybe even she would -- though it seemed, because of economic circumstance, beyond the possibilities.
 Out of the city by then (the Austin family bought a house in Windsor), Ms. Austin plugged away on fiction meant to illuminate the society she had left behind. When her novel was done, it got an uncommon reception for a first work by a relative unknown: a fat contract from Simon & Schuster. The publisher asked her to come to New York -- people there had the idea that Cindy Brown Austin might be the next Toni Morrison. She had never been to the city, and she worried that at lunch she would be so nervous she'd use the butter knife to cut her steak, and the deal would be off.
 Nothing like that happened, but ordinary publishing disappointment did. Her editor was fired, and the manuscript became an orphan. As years passed, people wondered if Ms. Austin had really sold anything. It was a decade later, this spring, when her second novel, ''By the Rivers of Babylon,'' was published by Strebor Books International, a Simon & Schuster imprint. This is a potboiler rich in characters (including a reporter whose issues reflect some of Ms. Austin's) and with urban detail that is learned first-hand.
 That was the reason for the reception at Saint Joseph College -- her first reading and signing. But there were more reasons to celebrate. Two of Ms. Austin's daughters had graduated from Saint Joseph, Tahari in 2004 and Torria last year. (Tiffani is a student at the University of Hartford, and Tianna, the married daughter, is a certified child care worker.) And Ms. Austin, at 42, has completed all the course work for a bachelor's degree in English.
 So, on a late afternoon in May, wearing a white suit and facing an audience that included her mother, daughters, husband, sisters and old friends (including another survivor of Charter Oak Terrace), she told of her journey. She said: ''You know that I love God the way some people love money. He was on a stroll one day to the junkyard, and he saw me all broken in pieces, and saw fit to pick me up.'' 
 Yes, if we like, we can praise the Lord. But praise, too, a woman who saw her destiny, and, facing extraordinary pressures and an indifferent marketplace, could not be silenced. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by M.J. Fiedler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CHILDREN (76%); RACE & RACISM (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (54%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



52 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Cut and Run

BYLINE: By Jon Shure. 
Jon Shure is the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a nonprofit research organization.

DATELINE: Trenton 

 BODY:
IT was a big deal in more ways than one in 1996 when the fledgling cable news network MSNBC and the State of New Jersey went into business together.
 First there was the money. MSNBC would get to keep most of what it withheld from its employees for state income tax, instead of it ending up in Trenton. And, the state would sell upwards of $160 million in bonds to pay for equipment MSNBC would need for its new studio in Secaucus.
And there were jobs: more than 400 employees doing their bit for New Jersey's economy. Prestige mattered too: New Jersey, not New York, would be home to one of the most innovative expansions in broadcast history. 
 This was one of the first tax breaks given under the state's Business Employment Incentive Program, and Gov. Christie Whitman was ebullient. ''This is a way to encourage high-income jobs to locate in New Jersey,'' she proclaimed during a press conference to mark the deal. MSNBC agreed to stay at least 15 years -- but 10 years and nearly $8 million in business incentive grants later, MSNBC has left the Garden State. 
 Citing corporate restructuring and commercial pressures, MSNBC announced last fall it would move its Secaucus operations to Manhattan. 
 It's getting to be an old story across the nation, states competing to offer lucrative subsidies to companies, announcing their arrival with great fanfare, and then left holding the bag when deals are broken. Companies have grown adept at stimulating bidding wars among states, cities and counties anxious to show job creation victories in what often is a zero-sum game for the region at large. As a business subsidy expert, Greg LeRoy, put it in his recent book, ''The Great American Jobs Scam,'' this is ''an intentionally constructed system that enables corporations to exact huge taxpayer subsidies by promising quality jobs -- and then lets them fail to deliver.''
 The MSNBC deal is just the latest example of questionable subsidy policy. 
 In 2005, New Jersey agreed to give Verizon upwards of $80 million in tax breaks, even though the jobs coming to New Jersey left the company's total employment in the state lower than it had been before previous layoffs and transfers.
 Last year, the state awarded Citigroup $37.1 million for moving 1,200 workers about a mile -- from Manhattan to Jersey City. Presumably New Jersey didn't ask why the company needed this help if it could afford to pay $20 million a year for naming rights to the new baseball stadium being built for the Mets in Queens. 
 Then there was AAA Mid-Atlantic, which moved employees starting in 2004 among New Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania and Maryland while creating no jobs and netting $8.1 million in tax breaks from Delaware and New Jersey.
 The losers in this game are the taxpayers. With MSNBC, the state determined the cable network owed $2.3 million for leaving early, but it eased the sting considerably by declaring no money need actually change hands. Instead, the sum simply is to be deducted from a grant that sister company CNBC might receive someday for operations in Englewood Cliffs. 
 But matters don't end there; New Jersey taxpayers' loss will be New York City taxpayers' loss too. In mid-March, the New York City Industrial Development Authority agreed to MSNBC's request for $1.5 million in property tax breaks in return for shifting 400-plus jobs from Secaucus to 30 Rockefeller Plaza -- the same jobs New Jersey had subsidized for 10 years. 
 You'd think by now government officials would realize they are being played. Someone needs to be bold enough to make the first move, and unilaterally disarm in this unproductive war. Instead, subsidies and other business-location tax breaks get little public debate and scrutiny compared to other large government expenditures, and they are defended with unsupported assertions about economic growth while one state's work force grows at the expense of another's.
 The better way to build an economy is the old-fashioned way: investing in roads, mass transit, schools, worker training, a clean environment and other aspects of the public good that will be there to pay dividends long after fickle companies split for the next great deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (87%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INCOME TAX (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); BONDS (71%); BASEBALL (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); LAYOFFS (57%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



53 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: My Borough Is Not a Parking Lot

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 In ''Parking, Pollution and the Pricing Zone'' (May 27), three letter writers comment on the congestion-pricing plan for city traffic. One writer assumes that most drivers will not troll for scarce curbside space in neighborhoods outside the pricing zone. The reality is that people already use outer-borough neighborhoods like mine as park-'n'-ride locations. 
 There are legitimate ''outsiders'' (students, service workers and so on) who already come to park in borough neighborhoods with few or no parking garages. Are they all supposed to receive ''resident alien'' parking stickers or placards, too? How soon before fraudulent copies are being sold by unscrupulous entrepreneurs?
 Another writer complains that the parking spaces predicted for the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn will be used to avoid congestion pricing for Manhattan. The reality will more likely be that those few spaces will be vastly over-subscribed by market-rate residents of the 6,000 new housing units that will be constructed there.
 The third writer refers to ''scientific studies'' offering ''strong evidence'' that congestion pricing will ''reduce traffic and health problems.'' But what other major city in the world consists primarily of a barely connected series of islands? I highly doubt the applicability of studies of cities topographically very different than ours.
 Congestion pricing is an idea whose time should never come to New York. Peter J. Farley III Clinton Hill, Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



54 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; FISHING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Flounder Restrictions Squeeze Sport Fishermen

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
THE Strathmere Fishing and Environmental Club had its annual opening day flounder tournament last Saturday, a beautiful late-spring day.
 ''A seven-pounder won the tournament; it ran 25 inches, a real nice fish,'' said Frank Jankowski, who has seen 25 opening days from his business, Frank's Boat Rentals, in the village just north of bustling Sea Isle City.
The problem is that Mr. Jankowski has never seen an opening flounder day so late in the year. That could create difficulties for him and others in the sport-fishing industry. 
 ''Usually, I'm opening by the first weekend in May, but these new restrictions, whew!'' he said. ''It won't kill me, but to lose three weeks of business, well, that isn't a good thing.''
 The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission and the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council have mandated strict restrictions on the fishing of fluke -- the summer flounder most often caught along the Atlantic Seaboard. Restrictions on other fish may also come in the next few years. 
 The fluke restrictions were put in place so that the population can get to the 204 million pounds Congress set as a goal for 2010. Last year, the estimated population was slightly more than half that.
 So this year, the agencies put each state on fluke-fishing restrictions of various stringencies on the size of the fish and the length of the season.
 New Jersey has among the most severe restrictions. The 2006 season was rather short, from early May to mid-October, and this year is even shorter, from May 26 to Sept. 10. 
 In addition, sport fishermen can keep only eight flounder again this year; all must be at least 17 inches long, up from 16 1/2 inches last year.
 ''By shortening the season, that is literally time you never get back,'' said Jim Reinknecht, who with a partner, Richard Moore, runs two party boats -- the Teal, out of Atlantic Highlands, and the AC Lady, out of Atlantic City. 
 So instead of fishing for flounder early in the season, his boats went farther afield -- about five or six miles out in the ocean instead of in the back bay or near shore -- to find bluefish and striped bass.
 ''The trips are longer, the fishing is harder, and the fish aren't as plentiful,'' Mr. Reinknecht said. ''It puts a stress on all the boats and the bluefish, too. It puts a crimp on everyone.''
 Salt-water fishing is big business, accounting for $1.13 billion annually in the state, said John DePersenaire, fisheries policy and biological researcher for the Recreational Fishing Alliance, a lobbying group based in New Gretna.
 The fluke population started slowing in the 1990s, but for no apparent reason, said Thomas W. McCloy, administrator for the Bureau of Marine Fisheries in the Division of Fish and Wildlife in the State Department of Environmental Protection.
 At more than 100 million pounds along the coast, the fluke population is not endangered but is not expanding as officials want, he said. ''We don't know what is keeping the population low, whether it is predators or competition for food or slight overfishing, but we want to have a large, stabilized population and, unfortunately, the sport fishermen are taking a hit right now,'' he said. 
 There are restrictions on commercial fishing of fluke as well, but they seem to have created less of a stir economically, said Tina Berger, a spokeswoman for the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, which is made up of officials from states from Maine to Florida. Commercial fishermen are allotted 60 percent of the catch, with sport fishermen taking 40 percent.
 She said restrictions might come in the next several years for weakfish, blackfish and lobsters, but they should affect sport fishing less because they would not be as stringent. Plans are, for instance, to limit weakfish catches in 2008 to fish larger than 13 inches and to bar recreational divers from keeping lobsters larger than 5 1/4 inches.
 Things have not been bad for everyone in the industry, though. John Larson, who has run recreational and commercial fishing businesses at Barnegat Light since 1961, said that he had long gone on bluefish trips and that business was up so far this season for a different reason.
 ''Over the last several years, people have been able to afford their own boats, with Fiberglas and mass production,'' Mr. Larson said. ''With better electronics and global positioning systems, too, they can do almost as well getting to the fishing spots as we experts can.
 ''But now you see that $3 gas -- or even more when you have to buy it at a marina -- limits these guys,'' he said. ''They are not likely to go out as far. It's an expensive proposition. So more people are doing party boats, at least for now.''
 Still, the fluke restriction is important because fluke is the primary sport fish along the coast. It is easily caught with big hooks, with the boat cruising along slowly and lines dragging the bay or ocean floor where the fish like to stay. There are an estimated 125 party boat operators along the coast in New Jersey and in the New York City region. 
 ''There are flounder all over the place here,'' said Mr. Reinknecht, speaking from Atlantic City. ''We could have been going out every day and making people happy.
 ''Take those weeks on either end out for us, though,'' he said, ''and I'll bet you see some boats go belly up in the not-too-distant future.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: CATCH LIMITS -- Fishermen debarking the Dauntless, a fishing boat. At Point Pleasant Beach, fishing is the thing to do even on a windy day. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); FISHING LAW (90%); FISHES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); FISHERIES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



55 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Freelancers Inc.

BYLINE: By James Parrott. 
James Parrott is the chief economist and deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit research group.

 BODY:
THE smallest of small businesses -- the self-employed and freelancers -- rarely get their voices heard in the halls of government. And when small-business concerns are publicly debated, all too often they are simply a mask for proposals that are really intended to benefit corporate interests -- farm subsidies and the estate tax cut come to mind.
 Unfortunately, this pattern is being repeated right now in the New York City budget. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's executive budget includes a City Council proposal to cut a little-known tax called the unincorporated business tax by increasing a credit against the city's personal income tax, on the grounds that doing so will help small entrepreneurs. But in reality, this move will overwhelmingly benefit large businesses and wealthy individuals. 
The original idea behind the unincorporated business tax was to ensure that the elite of New York's corporate services sector -- legal, accounting and financial firms that are private partnerships -- would pay a tax on profits just as corporations do.
 But as the economy has changed, this tax now hits computer programmers, writers, graphic designers and other freelancers because they are -- like the private partnership firms -- unincorporated. These workers are not businesses -- but the rules treat them as if they were, and make them pay the tax. Of course, if these workers live in New York City, they must also pay the city's personal income tax -- so they are taxed twice on the same income.
 This double taxation is a burden on an increasing number of New Yorkers, because more and more companies are choosing to treat workers as freelancers or independent contractors to avoid responsibility for payroll taxes and having to pay health insurance and other benefits. 
 This creates perverse results. For example, the salary of a staff editor at a publishing house is taxed as personal income while the earnings received by a freelance editor working for the same publishing house are taxed by the city twice -- once as business income and once as personal income.
 The right solution to this problem is to change the tax rules to exempt freelancers from paying the unincorporated business tax. While the current budget proposal, which would simply enact an across-the-board increase in the personal income tax credit for unincorporated business taxes paid, would help freelancers some, the biggest beneficiaries would be high-income law firm partners and financiers. That's because the 8 percent increase in the credit applies to someone whether he has earned $150,000 or $1 million in a given year. If you make $150,000, you would pay $5,600 in unincorporated business tax, and the 8 percent increase in the credit would mean a $450 tax break. But if you make $1 million, you're talking about a whopping $3,200 tax break. 
 Indeed, about 80 percent of the total dollar value of the proposed cut would go to those with incomes over $150,000. That means about $23 million in tax cuts would go to the fortunate few while thousands of freelancers and owners of truly small businesses share $5 million, tops. That's a pretty regressive tax cut. Instead, the increase in the credit should only benefit those making under $200,000. 
 By all means, the city should exempt middle-income freelancers and small-business owners from unfair double taxation. But we should figure out a way to do it that doesn't involve millions in tax cuts being lavished on the well-heeled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); MAYORS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); CITIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PUBLISHING (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (66%); WRITERS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (57%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



56 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: With Korea as Model, Bush Team Ponders Long Support Role in Iraq

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
For the first time, the Bush administration is beginning publicly to discuss basing American troops in Iraq for years, even decades to come, a subject so fraught with political landmines that officials are tiptoeing around the inevitable questions about what the United States' long-term mission would be there. 
 President Bush has long talked about the need to maintain an American military presence in the region, without saying exactly where. Several visitors to the White House say that in private, he has sounded intrigued by what he calls the ''Korea model,'' a reference to the large American presence in South Korea for the 54 years since the armistice that ended open hostilities between North and South.
But it was not until Wednesday that Mr. Bush's spokesman, Tony Snow, publicly reached for the Korea example in talking about Iraq -- setting off an analogy war between the White House and critics who charged that the administration was again disconnected from the realities of Iraq. He said Korea was one way to think about how America's mission could evolve into an ''over-the-horizon support role,'' whenever American troops are no longer patrolling the streets of Baghdad. 
 The next day, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates also mentioned Korea, saying that establishing a long-term American garrison there was a lot smarter than the handling of Vietnam, ''where we just left lock, stock and barrel.'' He added that ''the idea is more a model of a mutually agreed arrangement whereby we have a long and enduring presence but under the consent of both parties and under certain conditions.''
 Korea is an attractive analogy for the Bush White House for a host of reasons: a half-century later, South Korea is a raucous democracy and one of the world's biggest economies. The North is a broken, isolated state, though one that, improbably, has not only survived for more than 50 years but has built a small nuclear arsenal. 
 But Korea is also the kind of analogy that stokes the fears of those who see Iraq leading to unending war. The model suggests a near-permanent presence in Iraq, though presumably with far fewer troops than the nearly 150,000 now in place.
 In a Democratic-controlled Congress, which continues to press for a troop withdrawal deadline, talk of permanent bases is not welcome, though many Democrats acknowledge that the United States cannot simply leave Iraq in chaos. Nor is the idea popular in the Middle East, though some countries are desperate for a strategic counterweight to Iran's growing power. 
 Critics on the left who have argued for years that the Iraq war was really about oil leap on such talk as evidence that the administration's real agenda is to put its forces right on top of Iraq's still-broken pipelines. Those who fear the next target is Iran -- including the Iranians -- will see the permanent bases as staging areas, in case the United States decides to take military action against Iran's nuclear program and deal with the repercussions later. 
 And the analogy rankles analysts who believe the situation is far less similar to Korea than it is to Vietnam in the '60s or Beirut in the '80s, where American bases became the No. 1 targets, and a rallying call for extremists, in an endless guerrilla war. 
 ''It's not that Iraq isn't vital,'' said Leslie Gelb, the former president of the Council of Foreign Relations, and one of the many experts organized by groups opposing Mr. Bush's Iraq strategy to shoot back in the analogy war. ''It's just that Korea bears no resemblance to Iraq. There's no strategy that can create victory.'' 
 Historical analogy has been a problem for this administration since the start of the Iraq war in 2003. In the months before the invasion, there was talk of modeling a post-Saddam Hussein Iraq after the successful occupations of Japan and Germany. But even then, historians and analysts were warning against such comparisons, arguing that those were two cohesive societies that were exhausted by years of war and bore little resemblance to the fractured Iraqi society and its potential for internal violence. 
 The core problem with the Korea comparison, many experts on Asia note, is that when the war ended in 1953, there were bright lines drawn across the 38th Parallel, separating the warring parties. That hardened into the formal Demilitarized Zone, exactly the kind of division that the Bush administration has said it wants to avoid in Iraq. 
 And while there have been incursions across the Korean border over the years -- a famous ax murder, underground invasion tunnels, a few commando raids by boat -- those were mostly long ago. Nothing there has approached the Hobbesian state of chaos that is everyday life in Baghdad and Anbar Province.
 Some of Mr. Bush's critics see an effort to reach for any comparison other than Vietnam.
 ''If we can make this like Korea, then we have been successful,'' said the Donald L. Kerrick, a retired general who spent 30 years in the military and has now emerged as one of a cadre of generals criticizing Mr. Bush's strategy. He said that he did not believe the analogy fit.
 Mr. Bush himself has made clear, while in Hanoi late last year for a summit meeting, that he believes America's mistake in Vietnam was that it gave up too early. ''We'll succeed unless we quit'' he told a small group of reporters who asked him what lessons he drew for Iraq. He declined to engage in deeper comparisons, including the fact that President Lyndon Johnson's dire warnings about what would happen if the United States pulled out of Vietnam -- that Communism would spread across Asia -- never came to pass. 
 Administration officials and top military leaders declined to talk on the record about their long-term plans in Iraq. But when speaking on a not-for-attribution basis, they describe a fairly detailed concept. It calls for maintaining three or four major bases in the country, all well outside of the crowded urban areas where casualties have soared. They would include the base at Al Asad in Anbar Province, Balad Air Base about 50 miles north of Baghdad, and Tallil Air Base in the south. 
 ''They are all places we could fly in and out of without putting Americans on every street corner,'' said one senior official deeply involved in the development of Iraq strategy. ''And our mission would be very different -- making sure that Al Qaeda doesn't turn Iraq into a base the way it turned Afghanistan into one.''
 A long-term presence is envisioned by many experts, and it has been raised as a possibility by the Baker-Hamilton Commission, whose report on Iraq has now been embraced by President Bush -- five months after he all but dismissed its conclusions. But the problem, as one senior administration official acknowledged last week, is that there is little reason to believe that American bases will stop Iraq from being ''the great jihadist training camp it is today.'' 
 As in Korea, the bases may be an effort to prevent calamity and invasion. The question is whether, in the firestorm of Iraq, their contribution to security would outweigh their roles as symbols of occupation or targets of terrorism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



57 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE TONYS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Award for Most Hopeful Goes to an Atlanta Theater

BYLINE: By BRENDA GOODMAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
JUST days after learning that the Alliance Theater had won the 2007 Tony Award for outstanding regional theater, Susan V. Booth, its artistic director, was already trying to win another.
 ''Tony Kushner is a son of the South,'' Ms. Booth said, sitting in her office surrounded by congratulatory bouquets and staring dreamily into the middle distance. ''I would love to have him originate work with us.'' (Mr. Kushner, the Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning playwright best known for ''Angels in America,'' was born in Manhattan but grew up in Lake Charles, La.)
Such is the chest puffing and name dropping that is going on in the administrative offices of the Alliance these days, as the staff members try to think of ways to capitalize on the award. What they most want, apart from a new play by Mr. Kushner, is a little more love from the locals. 
 In recent years, even as the Alliance developed a national reputation as an incubator for new Broadway-bound musicals like ''The Color Purple,'' the company has struggled to retire a $1.5 million debt and revitalize a subscriber base that has been graying and shrinking. 
 Supporters of the Alliance believe the theater is in a good position to take advantage of the honor.
 Kenny Leon, who was the Alliance's artistic director for 11 years, is one of them. ''The country has said: 'You're important. You're important to the field,' '' explained Mr. Leon, the director of the Broadway production of August Wilson's ''Radio Golf.'' ''And now it's up to them to educate the community about what that means, to show what we've got right here in Atlanta.'' 
 The theater company, which shares the Woodruff Arts Center campus with the High Museum of Art and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, has had trouble appearing hip and gritty in a city teeming with young people on the hunt for what Ms. Booth calls ''punky itchy scratchy'' theater, the kind that often turns up in Atlanta's many smaller houses like Dad's Garage and PushPush. 
 Ms. Booth's efforts to reach a more diverse audience were driven as much by economic necessity as a desire to help the Alliance better mirror its home city. Over the last decade the average age of an Alliance season ticket holder has hovered around 56. And though Atlanta's population is 54 percent black, the Alliance had a reputation of playing primarily to white patrons. That narrow focus proved disastrous in 2001 after the Sept. 11 attacks, when the theater saw its annual subscriber base shrink to just 9,000 from 14,000, where it stayed for the next five years. In search of more bodies and buzz, Ms. Booth, 43, conducted ''field research,'' haunting the productions of many of the smaller local companies to see what was bringing people through their doors.
 The result was City Series, a collaboration with local companies that allowed them to produce more experimental plays in the Hertz, the Alliance's smaller stage (its exposed ductwork adding a note of hipness). Though the project folded in 2004 after only two years, Ms. Booth said she was happy with the results of the experiment. 
 And the audience has responded. Administrators project that the Alliance, with a $10.5 million annual budget, will have about 13,000 subscribers next season. 
 Those familiar with the theater's history, however, see its main problem as image, and they hope the Tony recognition will help.
 ''It's not about, 'Gee, this season is great,' '' said Howard Sherman, executive director of the American Theater Wing, the nonprofit service organization that, with the League of American Theaters and Producers, presents the Tonys. ''They've been participating in a lot of work that's been nationally recognized,'' he said, alluding to Alfred Uhry's ''Last Night of Ballyhoo,'' Elton John and Tim Rice's ''Aida'' and ''The Color Purple,'' which all originated at the Alliance. 
 But, Mr. Sherman added, the theater has ''balanced that with a strong commitment to new writers and education.'' 
 In 2005 the Alliance won a significant grant from an anonymous donor to create the Kendeda Graduate Playwriting Competition, which is unusual in that it produces the winner's play, rather than simply giving it a staged reading or workshop. The Alliance has also made an effort to present works about the South. In 2005 it opened the season with the comedy ''Moonlight and Magnolias'' by Ron Hutchinson, about the making of the movie ''Gone With the Wind.'' That same year it produced ''The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter'' by Rebecca Gilman, an Alabama native who adapted it from the Carson McCullers novel. 
 What the Tony may do for the Alliance's ticket lines and bottom line remains to be seen. Robert Brustein, the former artistic director of the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass., said that winning the regional theater award in 1986 had made little tangible difference to that theater. But it changed a lot for the Utah Shakespearean Festival in Cedar City, which saw a bump in press coverage, ticket sales and financial contributions in the six months following its Tony win in 2000.
 Ms. Booth said she had no intention of letting the award simply sit metaphorically on a shelf. In September the Alliance will open ''The Women of Brewster Place,'' a new musical by Tim Acito based on the novel by Gloria Naylor about seven black women living in a housing project in the 1970s. 
 And after that, perhaps a little something by Mr. Kushner? 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan V. Booth, artistic director of the Alliance Theater, in Atlanta. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); WRITERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



58 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Killed in the Line of Work

BYLINE: By Carole Bass. 
Carole Bass, a journalist, is writing a book about workplace safety.

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
EVERY year, dozens of bills die quiet deaths at the Statehouse. A few carry an unusual poignancy, because they foreshadow the quiet human deaths that could have been prevented had the proposals become law.
 Two such bills -- one promoting research in less toxic alternatives to industrial materials and the other encouraging employers to use them -- could have saved the lives of several hundred workers in this state.
Workplace accidents kill close to 6,000 Americans every year. Health experts estimate that 10 times that many die from work-related illness. Here in Connecticut, we occasionally hear about the sudden, traumatic on-the-job deaths like that of the New Haven police officer who was run over directing traffic last year or the Greenwich country club groundskeeper who died in January when a trench collapsed on him. But the workers who die slowly and prematurely, after years of gradual poisoning, never make the news. 
 Nor did either of the workplace bills, both of which were pronounced dead in committee this spring. The cause of death was lack of interest, worsened by industry opposition.
 We don't know how many Connecticut workers are getting sick on the job. Examining the most recent available statistics, Tim Morse, a professor at the University of Connecticut, found that the state Labor Department reported more than 4,500 cases of occupational disease in 2004 -- a figure the Department acknowledges is undercounted. Several academic studies have found that federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration records capture only about one in three workplace illnesses and injuries. 
 If you take Mr. Morse's finding of an occupational disease rate of about 30 per 10,000 Connecticut workers and multiply by three to account for underreporting, you get a rate of 0.9 percent per year. That sounds minuscule until you realize that, during a 45-year work life, that rate adds up to about a 33 percent chance of getting sick on the job.
 Most of those who do become ill will probably never know that their jobs are the cause. Disguised as run-of-the-mill ailments or chalked up to the mysteries of cancer, these sometimes deadly illnesses are usually not diagnosed as work-related; they are not recorded in any official statistics; the victims' families receive no compensation. Most important, no one fixes the fatal work conditions. 
 The bills that died this year would not have ended the problem, but they would have taken a modest first step on a trail being blazed by the European Union. Last week, a new law went into effect that requires companies doing business with the union to show that the chemicals they use or make are safe or that their usefulness outweighs the health risks. 
 Connecticut companies, like everyone else, must comply or face getting shut out of the world's biggest economy. The workplace safety bills would have helped protect local workers' health as well as their employers' access to the European market.
 If you're thinking that federal rules give Connecticut workers all the protection they need, think again. Most of the OSHA guidelines about exposure to toxic chemicals and metals are based on outdated science. For example, OSHA permits workers to be exposed to up to 1,000 times the concentration of hazardous substances that the Environmental Protection Agency allows in air or water. 
 What's more, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. recently calculated that it would take OSHA inspectors 94 years to visit each Connecticut workplace just once. The same report noted that in 2006, OSHA's average penalty for ''serious'' violations -- those considered likely to cause death or serious injury -- in Connecticut was $767. Such a paltry fine will do nothing to deter employers from endangering their workers' lives.
 Connecticut should learn from Massachusetts, where companies have been required since 1989 to develop plans to reduce their use of toxic materials. Then we should take the next step and put those plans into effect. Our workers, our economy and our environment will all be healthier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); DEATHS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); POISONINGS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); CANCER (77%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



59 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Play; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS: First and Long -- Very Long

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Bill Hambrecht is a rich old Wall Street guy who has made his money tilting at windmills and disrupting the establishment. ''That's what I do,'' he says. ''It's fun.'' Almost a decade ago, at 62, he founded WR Hambrecht + Company, whose fundamental premise is that companies don't need to use Wall Street investment bankers -- and pay their outrageous fees -- to go public. Hambrecht + Company has since become so threatening to traditional underwriters that they often refuse to be involved in any I.P.O. in which his firm takes part. 
 And now, at an age when most people are well into retirement, he has decided to tackle the establishment again. This time, though, the establishment isn't Wall Street. It's the National Football League. Bill Hambrecht, you see, is starting up a professional football league. So far, he and his partner, Tim Armstrong, a senior executive at Google, have pledged $2 million each. They've hired a C.E.O. and a C.O.O., both of whom cut their teeth at the National Basketball Association. They've got a name: the United Football League. And they've lined up a wealthy, well-known businessman as their first owner: Mark Cuban, the billionaire who owns the N.B.A.'s Dallas Mavericks. Like Hambrecht, Cuban loves nothing more than confronting the status quo.
Obviously, the U.F.L. is still in the early planning stages. It hasn't yet hired a single football person and is still hunting for seven more owners with Cuban's deep pockets and contrarian mindset, so that the league can begin with eight teams. It could easily fall apart before the first kickoff. Indeed, there has already been one setback: Boone Pickens, the oilman turned-corporate-raider-turned-billionaire-hedge-fund manager, recently abandoned his intention to buy a team. But Cuban remains committed, and if all goes according to plan, the U.F.L. will play its first preseason games in August 2008. I kid you not.
 Hambrecht has been thinking unconventional thoughts about pro football for a long time. Back in the early 1980s, he was a minority partner in the Oakland Invaders, one of the original franchises of the late, unlamented United States Football League, a spring league that played its games during the N.F.L.'s off-season. The U.S.F.L. folded in 1985, after three seasons. ''It was started by a bunch of guys who were riding high because of the S.&L. boom,'' Hambrecht recalls. ''As soon as the boom turned to bust, the league went broke.''
 Most of us would go through such an experience and conclude, Never again. Not Hambrecht. He was convinced that the U.S.F.L. could have worked with a smarter game plan and owners who were more patient. At various times he discussed a new league with NBC, CBS and Fox, but those talks went nowhere. Then one day last year, Hambrecht told Tim Armstrong, whom he met when his firm helped manage Google's initial public offering, about his dream of a new football league. The more Armstrong heard, the more excited he got. By October, the two men had committed their $2 million, hired their first three executives (Bill Daugherty, the C.E.O.; Jon Brod, the C.O.O.; and Andrew Goldberg, a senior analyst) and begun an extensive study to see if the idea was really feasible.
 Let's now take a moment to consider what the U.F.L. will be up against: a monopolistic sports league utterly unafraid to take advantage of its monopoly power. Over the years, the N.F.L. has squashed four competitors, most recently the NBC- and World Wrestling Federation-backed XFL in 2001. Right now, Arena Football is an alternate league, but it's a marginal thing, with negligible TV ratings and an average of 12,000 fans per game. And with eight players to a side, games in the N.F.L.'s off-season and a field that looks like a hockey rink, it's not exactly ''real'' football.
 Where others might be daunted by the N.F.L.'s success and power, though, Hambrecht came to believe its monopoly status gave him an opening. ''I really started thinking hard about this after the Los Angeles Rams left to go to St. Louis and the Houston Oilers went to Nashville,'' he told me over drinks recently. ''Why do you leave two of the top 10 TV markets in the country for these two smaller markets?''
 The answer, of course, is that the N.F.L. doesn't really have to worry about where its teams are located, since most games are televised and the bulk of the league's revenues come from its network contracts. What's more, with the right stadium deal and enough corporate sponsorship, team owners can make as much (or more) money in smaller cities as they can in larger ones. That's why the N.F.L. does just fine despite not fielding a team in 21 of the country's top 50 markets -- including such enormous metropolitan areas as San Antonio, Las Vegas, Orlando and (of course) Los Angeles. Nor does the N.F.L., which now has 32 teams, have much incentive to expand. On the contrary: expansion dilutes the TV money. (Greg Aiello, the N.F.L.'s spokesman, told me that ''expansion isn't on the table right now.'')
 So the first step in Hambrecht's plan is to enter big cities where the N.F.L. isn't. As Mark Cuban put it to me in an e-mail, ''There are quite a few good-sized non-N.F.L. cities that can support a pro team.'' So far, the U.F.L. has decided to put teams in Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Mexico City. (Cuban is considering taking the Las Vegas franchise.) Each owner will put up $30 million, giving him an initial half-interest in the team; the league will own the other half. But eventually the fans themselves will become shareholders -- because each team is going to sell shares to the public. Then the owner, the league and the fans will each own a third of every franchise.
 Hambrecht and his executives believe that the initial public offerings will raise, on average, another $60 million per team, giving it about $90 million in working capital. They also hope that the stock sale will create intense fan loyalty. ''This is going to be a very accessible league,'' says Daugherty, the C.E.O. ''Fans will own a piece of the team, and they'll get tickets at more affordable prices.''
 Hambrecht expects his owners to be wealthy -- and patient -- enough to absorb losses for up to five years. The league will need a television contract, of course, but its existence is not predicated on a megabucks deal, at least not at first. The U.F.L. is open to making a smaller deal with a cable network like USA, TNT or Comcast's Versus network (the former OLN). One mistake other leagues have made, Hambrecht believes, is counting on an upfront TV deal -- and bringing in owners who expect to make money instantly.
 One television advantage the U.F.L. will have is Friday night. Thanks to the 1961 Sports Broadcasting Act, the N.F.L. is prohibited from televising games on most autumn Friday nights. (The prohibition was meant to protect high-school football.) Any new league would have televised football all to itself on that evening.
 A new league's biggest issue, though, is whether it really can approximate the N.F.L.'s level of play. As Daugherty puts it, ''If you don't put a good product on the field, nothing else matters.'' When he first signed on, he and Brod immediately began looking into that question -- and they came away convinced they could land decent players right away, and very good players eventually.
 ''Bill Walsh used to tell me that the last 20 players cut from every team were almost interchangeable with the last 20 players to make the team,'' Hambrecht says. The new league will hire the best of those last 20 players -- along with the best of the Arena players, the Canadian Football League players and so on. Though the U.F.L. will have a salary cap, it will be able to pay those players more than they are making now. It won't be able to afford to sign marquee names like Peyton Manning or the biggest stars coming out of college, obviously. But the U.F.L. will be able to offer most rookies, who aren't top draft choices, far more money than the N.F.L. would give them. And since the N.F.L. salary cap has been negotiated with the players' union, it can't be unilaterally changed.
 ''The average career of an N.F.L. player is less than four years,'' Daugherty says. ''They have a huge incentive to maximize their income.'' The new league's officials think they'll be able to sign players drafted by the N.F.L. in the second round and later. And one former N.F.L. coach I spoke to -- who asked not to be named because he didn't want people to know he had spoken to the U.F.L. -- agreed. ''They are going to be able to get players and coaches,'' he said. ''That's not going to be a problem.'' It's also worth remembering that many late-round draft choices are good football players. Tom Brady, for instance, was a sixth-round draft choice.
 As U.F.L. executives see it, there has really only been one competing league that took the approach they want to take: the old American Football League. The A.F.L. played ''11 on 11'' football in the fall, mostly in cities where the N.F.L. did not. Its founder, Lamar Hunt, pioneered the concept of revenue-sharing and built a unified league with the staying power to last nine years before it merged with the N.F.L. That is the model the new league wants to emulate. Whether the ultimate goal is to merge with the N.F.L. or play alongside it -- well, that's the one place Hambrecht wasn't going to go with me. ''We'll just see how it plays out,'' he said.
 When I asked Roger Noll, a sports economist at Stanford University, whether it is possible to compete with the N.F.L., he laughed, but he didn't scoff. ''The crucial barrier to entry is finding stadiums in the biggest cities,'' he replied -- something U.F.L. executives insist is not a problem in the places they are considering. ''If you can do that, it would be easy to have a league.'' Noll pointed out that for wealthy people who want to own a football team, it is far cheaper to start a new league than to try to land an expansion team -- which, assuming that the N.F.L. were interested, would cost upward of $800 million. ''You need to have enough money to experience losses that will amount to 20 to 30 percent of revenue in the first three or four years,'' he said. It's much cheaper to lose money over that time than to purchase an N.F.L. franchise.
 When we met, Hambrecht said: ''A guy asked me, 'Why are you doing this?' '' He shrugged. ''I had trouble explaining, except that it made logical sense.'' On paper, it does. Whether it plays out that way in real life -- who can say? But it'll be fun to watch. Bill Hambrecht ventures usually are. .
 Joe Nocera is a business columnist for The New York Times. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by David Johnson)
 Bill Hambrecht. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (74%); TIM ARMSTRONG (52%); DAVID S JOHNSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



60 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Westchester; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: A New Outpost in the Civilian World

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
LAST week Westhab, a nonprofit organization that has built and managed housing, mostly for homeless families and singles, for 26 years, opened its first residence for veterans: a century-old Victorian home in Yonkers renovated for $1.1 million.
 The refurbished three-story home for 12 men is one of several that the group is planning for veterans in the next two years, said Robert A. Sanborn, Westhab's vice president for real estate. 
The shift in focus for the Elmsford-based organization follows a sharp decline in the number of homeless singles and families in Westchester, Mr. Sanborn said, largely a result of a rent supplement program instituted by the county about three years ago for people on public assistance.
 Because the program enabled many to find permanent housing, Westchester's numbers, which peaked in the early 1990s at 1,000 homeless families, have fallen to about 320. At the same time, though, the plight of veterans in transition has grown worse because of cuts in financing for Section 8 and other federal housing programs.
 Homeless veterans are not included in the county's programs for singles and families, said Betty Gilmore, manager of the behavioral health rehabilitation program in the northern Westchester at the Montrose campus of the Department of Veterans Affairs' Hudson Valley Health Care System. 
 Also, the gentrification of many marginal neighborhoods has driven jobless veterans out of many Westchester cities and towns, forcing some of them into crowded and often substandard housing elsewhere, Ms. Gilmore explained.
 Until Westhab's recent entrance into the picture, there were only a handful of groups, including the Volunteers of America and Common Ground, providing some transitional housing for them, she said. 
 ''It's been a confluence of events that brought the V.A. and Westhab together,'' Mr. Sanborn said of his group's agreement to build housing in conjunction with the government. His organization, which owns and manages about 1,500 units of below-market-rate housing, had been looking for other groups in need. 
 ''The need for housing for homeless veterans has always been there,'' he noted, ''but until recently, homeless families and singles demanded most of our attention.'' 
 In addition to building and managing transitional and permanent housing for veterans, Westhab has recently been adding to the limited stock of work-force housing in the county.
 Each of the three floors in the newly refurbished residence at 28 Pier Street in a working class neighborhood of Yonkers has four bedrooms, one kitchen, two baths and a communal area. The house is set up as a three-family structure with one kitchen per floor so that it complies with city zoning laws, said David Berridge, the owner of David Berridge Architects in Midtown Manhattan, which designed the project. 
 The first floor is accessible to those with disabilities. The juxtaposition of bedrooms and common space on each floor enables the residents to interact with one another and yet retain their privacy, he said.
 ''Vets in special-needs programs like living in an environment with other vets who have shared similar experiences,'' Ms. Gilmore noted. ''There's a strong peer-support element at work.''
 The 12 men who will be moving to the new Westhab housing in Yonkers later this spring are now in the in-patient rehabilitation program run by the V.A. at its Franklin Delano Roosevelt Campus in Montrose. Many of the unemployed men, representing a wide spectrum of ages, have been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, physical disabilities or mental illness.
 Under the agreement between Westhab and the V.A., the men will spend 18 months to two years in the building in Yonkers as a transitional step and receive counseling from the nonprofit's staff and others aimed at helping them find employment and permanent quarters. 
 The four-month rehabilitation program in Montrose discharges about 175 veterans a year, but, Ms. Gilmore said, ''because we're not in the housing business,'' until now they have had to find their own housing once they became outpatients. 
 Many troubled veterans, some of whom are disabled, have been able to afford only substandard living quarters in poor neighborhoods with high rates of crime and drug abuse -- ''a situation that is not conducive to their efforts to sustain economic independence and solve physical and emotional problems,'' she added.
 The federal government provides $31 a day per individual for transitional housing, but it has been difficult, especially in Westchester where the cost of housing is quite high, to find an agency able to coordinate its resources with the federal government's, she said. The need for housing for this group is expected to deepen as veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan are discharged.
 Financing for the initial veterans project in Yonkers has come from the United States Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Home Loan Bank, the city of Yonkers and the Leviticus 25:23 Alternative Fund, a not-for-profit financial intermediary in Elmsford.
 With that project almost ready for occupancy, Mr. Sanborn said, his group is preparing to break ground next month on a $10 million six-story building in New Rochelle with 25 housing units -- four for veterans and the others for working families.
 Westhab is also planning to build a 43-unit $16 million building in Greenburgh, with seven units set aside for veterans. 
 Another $9 million building with 33 units of transitional and permanent housing is planned in Yonkers, all of its units designated for single homeless veterans. 
 In choosing locations, Mr. Sanborn said, Westhab looks for easy access to medical services, public transportation and employment possibilities. ''It also should be a safe neighborhood,'' he said, ''and toward that end, we look at the local crime statistics, and the history of a place. The neighborhood shouldn't work against their rehabilitation.''
 In all, Westhab has more than $100 million in construction due to be completed in the next few years for veterans and working families.
 The organization also recently expanded to provide below-market-rate housing in the Bronx and in Stamford and Norwalk in Connecticut, Mr. Sanborn said.
 In addition, Antares Real Estate, a developer in Greenwich, has designated Westhab as its affordable-housing partner for its $3.5 billion 80-acre proposed mixed-use development of the Stamford waterfront. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FIRST INSPECTION -- Robert A. Sanborn, vice president of Westhab, with Lawrence Mayers and Bill Vance, both veterans, at the renovated 28 Pier Street in Yonkers. (Photographs by Rob Bennett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VETERANS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); ZONING (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); CITIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



61 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Kathleen Rubenstein, Hays Golden

 BODY:
Kathleen Bassi Rubenstein, a daughter of Laurie J. Bassi and Herbert R. Rubenstein of Golden, Colo., is to be married today to Hays Nathaniel Golden, the son of Trudy Anna Legge Golden and Arthur Golden of Brookline, Mass. The ceremony, at Saltmeadows, the summer home of the bridegroom's parents in South Dartmouth, Mass., will be led by Jason B. Rubenstein, the bride's brother, who has permission to officiate from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 
 The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Chicago, from which they graduated. Both expect to return to the university in September; she is to begin studying for a law degree and he is to begin studying for a Ph.D. in economics.
The bride, 22, is a paralegal at Loevy & Loevy, a civil rights law firm in Chicago. Her father oversees strategic planning and fund-raising for the Autism Society of Colorado in Denver. Her mother is an economist and a founder and the chief executive of McBassi & Company, a survey research firm in Golden that specializes in management efficiency. 
 The bridegroom, 23, is a research associate at the Becker Center on Chicago Price Theory, an economics research center at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. 
 His father is a freelance writer and the author of ''Memoirs of a Geisha'' (Knopf, 1997). 
 The bridegroom's father is a cousin of Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the chairman of The New York Times Company and the publisher of The New York Times, and a brother of Michael Golden, the company's vice chairman and the publisher of The International Herald Tribune. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Krzystyna Harber) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); PARALEGALS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); LAWYERS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (54%); AUTISM (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%) COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



62 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Play; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 5352 words

HEADLINE: Cast Off, Characters!

BYLINE: By JOHN TAYMAN

 BODY:
If everything proceeds as planned not that it ever does late on the afternoon of July 7, in the Mediterranean waters fronting the ancient Spanish city of Valencia, one middle-aged man's $100 million, four-year-long campaign to win the America's Cup will explode in his face. Precisely to whom this will occur has yet to be decided. Word along the waterfront identifies several good candidates. Larry Ellison, the billionaire software magnate behind the American entry, BMW Oracle, is a popular choice. Another is Patrizio Bertelli, the head of the Italian effort and the C.E.O. of the design house Prada, his boats's main sponsor. Then there is Ernesto Bertarelli, an elegant 41-year-old billionaire from Geneva who is the current holder of the Cup, which his team, Alinghi, wrested away from New Zealand in 2003. 
 One man happily exempt from this specter of sudden heartsick, however, is Xavier de Lesquen, a former French naval officer who, as the executive manager of China Team, oversees that nation's fledgling effort to win the oldest trophy in sports. Cup dreams tend to sour swiftly, with stunning, tearful finality, and it is considered bad juju to prognosticate. Even so, several outcomes are already certain. By the time you read this, China Team will have taken its lumps and been eliminated from the competition, transforming de Lesquen's role from that of participant to interested observer. China's departure will have surprised no one, not even de Lesquen. The campaign started tardily and was woefully underfunded; for every dollar that a superteam like Alinghi or BMW Oracle had to spend, China had only a dime. Lacking the wherewithal to build a team from scratch, the Chinese absorbed a French team, taking possession of most of its assets. These included an America's Cup-class racing yacht, a support staff, several French crew members and de Lesquen. Because China is home to few world-class yachtsmen -- and those who might be said to qualify were focused on the Beijing Olympics -- it took some effort to assemble the 17-man crew required to sail an America's Cup yacht. Officials of the Chinese Yachting Association fanned out across the country and plucked unsuspecting sailors from provincial teams. After congratulating the young men for having achieved their theretofore unknown dream of competing in an America's Cup, the officials hustled them off to Valencia, where they bivouacked in communal flats and communicated with their teammates, who are primarily French, via translators. ''I think our Chinese friends are a little bit homesick, yes,'' de Lesquen admitted when I visited Spain in April. ''It's a very strange thing for them.''
De Lesquen is fair-skinned for a sailor, with a nest of peach-colored hair and the bemused look of a man uncoupled from all expectations. This is his third go-round in the America's Cup, and he exudes a charming (and useful) Continental unflappability. During its first months in competition, China Team was comically inept: snapping spars, ripping sails and bungling the most basic racing strategy. Once, while enjoying a rare lead, the boat's bowman tumbled over the side and vanished, prompting the race announcer to cry, ''There he goes!'' Of late, though, de Lesquen's men had begun to find an awkward rhythm. ''Every day we gain a lot,'' he said. ''They are learning.'' Though he wasn't expecting any victories in the upcoming Louis Vuitton Cup, the round-robin tourney that would decide who challenges Alinghi for the Cup, de Lesquen could report to his Chinese backers that their campaign was proceeding well, all things considered.
 De Lesquen led me on a brief tour of China Team's base, which sits at the southwest edge of Port America's Cup, the venue built by the city of Valencia for the event. Each team maintains a base, in which they work, eat, train and entertain. China's is the most humble: a latticework of iron scaffolding shrouded in plastic sheeting. Within this greenhouse are a series of stacked metal shipping containers, of the type used on ocean freighters and by international smugglers, although in this instance they serve as the team's lockers, offices and kitchen. Atop the base is an outdoor terrace with a dragon-themed bar -- an homage to the team yacht, which they call Longtze, or ''son of dragon.'' The name, the team literature says, evokes ''speed and elegance at the same time.''
 Perhaps the kindest thing that can be said of China Team's facility is that it commands a fine view of the other bases. After we had climbed to the roof, I joined de Lesquen in gazing out over the harbor. Directly across the water stood Alinghi's base. Had it not pre-dated China Team's base, the Alinghi facility would seem to exist simply to mock it. Approximately the size of a small urban mall, it contains a basketball court, cinema, bandstand, gymnasium, gift shop and multilevel hospitality area known as Club Alinghi, which is furnished in a Euro style familiar to anyone who has ever received a catalog from Design Within Reach. The base cost almost as much as China Team's entire budget.
 In hopes of winning the 32nd America's Cup, which begins on June 23, Ernesto Bertarelli and his Alinghi syndicate will spend an estimated $135 million. Larry Ellison and BMW Oracle will spend $175 million, much of which comes from Ellison personally. Patrizio Bertelli's Prada team, known as Luna Rossa Challenge, will spend $135 million, and Emirates Team New Zealand will spend a relatively modest $100 million. By July 7, one of these four teams will hoist the America's Cup, having expended a combined $545 million -- almost $100 million more than it costs NASA to mount a space shuttle mission.
 De Lesquen turned from the view. An afternoon breeze had arrived, lofting a flock of cocktail napkins toward the sea. China Team's base was not yet complete; the thin plastic walls kept peeling free, and base security remained a strand of rope clipped to a plywood desk. But de Lesquen appeared untroubled. He stood smiling on the roof in the sun. ''At the end of the day,'' de Lesquen announced, ''this is a nice place to be.''
 The America's Cup has always been about money, even before it was the America's Cup. Origins of the contest trace to a taunt, made in 1850 by a now forgotten English merchant, which asserted that British boats were better than American boats. The merchant, so the story goes, dared anyone to prove otherwise. When this challenge reached the ear of John Cox Stevens, a millionaire and the first commodore of the New York Yacht Club, he assembled a syndicate of peers and hired a 31-year-old boat builder named George Steers to build the swiftest yacht possible. Seeking to stoke Steers's competitive fire -- or perhaps simply out of sheer deviousness -- Stevens's syndicate shifted its economic risk onto the naval architect. Payment for the $30,000 yacht, the contract stated, was conditional upon the boat's being ''faster than every vessel brought against her,'' in the United States or in England.
 Undaunted, Steers fashioned a yacht unlike any seen before. At the time, design theory held that a ship should have ''a cod's head and a mackerel's tail,'' meaning that the bow should be round and blunt and the stern narrow to a point. Steers reversed these conventions. His ship -- which would be christened America -- showed first as the blade of a sword, thickened gracefully at its midpoint, then fattened to a well-balanced finish. Also, British yachts of the era were typically rigged with a multitude of small, squarish sails made from flax, a troublesome material that required continual dousing with seawater to tighten the weave. America, in contrast, sported massive, asymmetrical sails constructed of machine-woven cotton duck, which more easily caught and held the wind, supplying the boat with astounding power. When Steers's masterpiece glided into English waters, the reaction of the British fleet was, as The Times of London reported, like one that ''the appearance of a sparrowhawk in the horizon creates among a flock of woodpigeons.''
 On August 22, 1851, America entered the Royal Yacht Squadron's annual regatta, challenging 14 boats on a 53-mile race to circumnavigate the Isle of Wight. It was hardly a contest. Though America became entangled in its anchor chain at the start, within 90 minutes it had outdistanced the field -- at one point building a seven-and-a-half-mile lead. America crossed the finish line alone, untested, as a band played ''Yankee Doodle Dandy.''
 Almost before the music faded, however, the unsentimental syndicate sold America to a British Army captain, earning a $1,750 profit. The trophy that Steers had won for them -- a homely silver ewer that would become known as the America's Cup -- was carried to New York and unveiled at a celebration in Astor House, where it was displayed among roast quail and dessert crafted in the shape of the America. No one bothered to invite George Steers.
 In the years to follow, the trophy remained mostly forgotten. The syndicate's members discussed melting it down and recasting it as medals they might wear while lounging in their club, but the scheme never developed. Eventually, the surviving members gave the trophy to the New York Yacht Club, yoked to a deceptively clever document known as the Deed of Gift, which stated that ''this Cup is donated upon the conditions that it shall be preserved as a perpetual Challenge Cup for friendly competition between foreign countries.'' A variety of other reasonable-sounding requirements were set forth, none of which seemed especially onerous until it dawned on the careful reader that the Deed's net effect was to rig the game in favor of whoever holds the Cup -- a wily bit of odds stacking that enabled the N.Y.Y.C. to retain the trophy for 132 years.
 ''The reason this sport is so unfair -- and there's nothing fair about it -- is because it's a winner-take-all game,'' explained Bill Koch, a self-described nerd from Kansas who spent $68 million to win the Cup in 1992 aboard America3. ''The winner gets the Cup, gets to set the venue, gets to pick the racecourse, gets to select the umpires and gets to select the judges.'' The rules have been made slightly more fair since Koch's campaign, but he does have a point. If the Deed of Gift was bound to the Lombardi Trophy, for instance, then the Indianapolis Colts could demand that the next Super Bowl be played in 2011, at Yankee Stadium, using flag-football rules, and be officiated by members of the Manning family.
 An M.I.T. grad, Koch once did the math and determined that any one challenger has only a 5 percent chance of stealing the Cup from the defender. (''It's just crazy!'' Koch shouted.) Yet despite these odds, a certain class of people will seemingly spend anything, and endure anything, in the attempt. Ted Turner, who won the Cup in 1977 aboard Courageous, described the experience as ''the closest I shall ever get to heaven.'' Sir Frank Packer, another media titan who sought the Cup -- twice, without success -- blamed his costly quest on ''alcohol and delusions of grandeur.'' Baron Marcel Bich, the inventor of the Bic pen, spent an estimated $4 million of his fortune, only to end up as the lone competitor ever to become lost during a race. (After being towed to safety, Bich punched a cameraman documenting his rescue.) The baron made three more runs at the Cup, losing ingloriously every time, but he reportedly considered his investment well spent, as it offered a nifty branding opportunity for his line of disposable pens and razors. (Such marketing tactics do have their limits. Yves Rousset-Rouard, who headed a French campaign in 1983, likely saw little benefit to his signature product, a series of soft-core motion pictures featuring an adventuresome young woman named Emmanuelle.)
 In the end, the rationale for competing in the Cup remains personal and even egotistical -- which, fortunately, tends to ensure the presence of oddballs in the mix. One favorite among Cup cognoscenti is William Henn, whose Galatea sailed in 1886 with a crew that included a raccoon, dogs, cats and a monkey named Peggy, who assisted in the lowering of sails and also served as team cheerleader, racing to the bowsprit and screeching and jumping with delight whenever Galatea took the lead.
 If one thing is missing from this America's Cup, it's the enlivening presence of a truly eccentric character like Turner or Bich or Henn. The person who comes closest is Ellison, a complex man with an intriguing irascibility. (During the lead-up to the 2003 Cup, his skipper actually booted him off the yacht.) But he's too seldom seen around Port America's Cup to truly engage the masses. A week after I departed Valencia, Ellison finally joined his team for its stretch run. Precious few locals ever got a good look at him, though. ''Larry's feet never touch the ground,'' a BMW Oracle team member explained. ''He goes right from the chase boat to the yacht and then back onto his own yacht.'' (His own yacht being the $200 million Rising Sun, which at 453 feet is too long to dock in Port America's Cup.)
 As reigning champion, Ernesto Bertarelli is more visible. To date, however, he has failed to exhibit any memorable quirkiness, beyond, perhaps, being married to a former Miss United Kingdom. Bertarelli is slender and fine-featured, with perfect skin and a tan deep enough to touch bone. In 1996, he took over Serono, his family's pharmaceutical firm, which had grown rich by developing the fertility drug that enabled the birth of Louise Brown, the world's first test-tube baby. Bertarelli steered the company into the American market, doubled its sales and then, earlier this year, sold the company to Merck for more than $13 billion. He is personable and polite. But he has never caught fire in the public imagination the way some of his flamboyant predecessors did. People magazine covered Bill Koch's rollicking chase for the Cup. Bertarelli's 2003 campaign was the subject of a case study by Babson College's William F. Glavin Center for Global Management.
 ''You gotta be willing to spend your last penny,'' Koch told me, explaining how to make a splash. ''And you gotta be willing to put every conceivable effort in it and be willing to sacrifice everything to win. It led to my divorce, and it led to my 6-year-old son hating sailing. And it's basically a silly sailboat race, and its only importance is in the minds of the participants.''
 Like many sports subcultures -- curling comes to mind, as does biathlon -- professional yachting can seem inscrutable and slightly ridiculous to outsiders. It's a sport lacking a fan base, failing even to command the attention of the approximately one million amateur sailors in the United States. Few people wake in the morning with the thought, I need to see some sailing. When the Outdoor Life Network (now Versus) aired portions of the 2003 America's Cup preliminaries, the broadcast garnered a dismal rating of 0.1: fewer than 60,000 people. (Although, to be sure, that tiny audience is very wealthy and a desirable demographic to team sponsors and to advertisers.)
 Even before he won in 2003, Bertarelli was contemplating ways to increase the Cup's popularity. One bothersome aspect of the sport was that it vanished from the public eye for years at a time before magically reappearing, like a cloud of cicadas. Working with Larry Ellison, Bertarelli began to systematically modernize the sport, in part by remaking it in the image of other, more visible professional sports. He added 13 regattas, known as ''acts,'' to serve as a sort of four-year-long regular season. (And also to keep the yachts, which function as floating billboards, in front of the cameras.) These 13 acts lead to a playoff, called the Louis Vuitton Cup, from which a challenger emerges to duel the champion in the America's Cup. (The Louis Vuitton Cup is taking place now, and will end no later than June 12.)
 Just as the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. administer all aspects of their respective sports, Bertarelli created A.C.M., America's Cup Management, to coordinate promotion of the America's Cup, strike television deals, arrange revenue sharing and oversee the venue, which, for the first time, was put out to bid. (Valencia beat out Naples and Marseille, among others, by promising to spend 500 million euros on the event.)
 It is said that Bertarelli won his Cup -- and with it the ability to reconfigure the sport -- mainly by hiring the best match racer in the world to be his skipper. This was Russell Coutts, a lantern-jawed New Zealander who had won the trophy in 1995 (skunking Dennis Conner in the best-of-nine event) and again in 2000. Following Coutts's second victory, Bertarelli reached out to him, saying he was interested in buying one of New Zealand's yachts. The two hit it off and soon after met in a New York City hotel room, where Bertarelli offered Coutts a job. By checkout time, Coutts had agreed to skipper Alinghi, for a salary reported to be $5 million a year. New Zealanders responded to Coutts's career move by branding him a traitor, plastering anti-Coutts billboards in Auckland and issuing death threats. Coutts answered with a five-nil thrashing of his former team. 
 Though the two men have since had an ugly falling out -- reportedly over control of A.C.M. -- the poaching of Coutts rearranged the economics of the sport. ''All of a sudden it became the big leagues,'' explained Peter Isler, BMW Oracle's navigator and a veteran of four campaigns. ''And not just for the Russell Coutts and Dennis Conners and those types of folks, but for the grinders, who were all of a sudden in six figures.'' America's Cup sailors now command as much as $1 million a year, a pay scale that allows wealthy campaigns to corner the market on elite talent, while handicapping poor campaigns.
 In theory, such concentration of free-agent skill makes for better racing (at least in matches between wealthy teams). But it also dilutes a campaign's identity. Should they face each other in the America's Cup, BMW Oracle, the American boat, will likely have only three Americans aboard, including Ellison, and Alinghi, representing Switzerland, will probably have only one Swiss sailor -- Bertarelli. Meanwhile, more than half of the remaining crewmen on the two boats will hail from New Zealand. ''For most teams here the national image is less than the sponsor images,'' said Isler, an American. ''But I would say to all those who cry, 'Crass commercialism, nationalism is gone,' you'll be the first one on the parade when the Cup comes home.''
 The type of Cup fever that manifests as a parade, however, is rare. Most people simply understand too little about the sport to become infected. The teams, well aware of this dilemma, put a premium on newbie education. In Valencia, BMW Oracle maintains a sort of classroom at its base, where visitors receive instruction in boat building, match racing and the various responsibilities of the crew. (Quick lesson: imagine the team as characters in a Pixar film, with the nimble bowmen scampering the foredeck and shinnying the mast; mammoth grinders cranking the winches; and alert and clever members of the afterguard, the boat's brain trust, driving the yacht and orchestrating it all.) The atmosphere is intended to be one part Epcot and one part ESPN Zone, although the kid-pleasing experience suffers when it's time to learn more about Larry Ellison. ''As client/server computing becomes increasingly popular,'' we are told, ''Oracle rolls out Oracle Version 5 . . . one of the first RDBMSs to operate in the server mode.'' At this point the class usually abandons Larry and makes for the Alinghi base, where the educational offerings include an America's Cup arcade game and a full-scale simulator yacht that bucks and pitches and yaws.
 And for most spectators, Alinghi's simulator is as near as they'll get to the action. Last month, in a charity auction, a Chicago businessman paid $102,600 for the right to ride aboard the BMW Oracle yacht during an America's Cup race (if the team makes it that far). As this suggests, proximity to the sport's central drama is usually determined by the thickness of a person's wallet. For $750, fans can purchase seats on one of the spectator boats operated by A.C.M., which bounce along in the distant wake of the competitors. A private yacht ensures a better spot in the spectator flotilla, and one can be chartered for the duration or, of course, purchased outright -- although berthing fees at the Port America's Cup ''superyacht'' marina can approach a million dollars. 
 The easiest route to a decent vantage point is to own or be employed by a sponsoring corporation, which can land you on a team's hospitality boat. One afternoon, I finagled my way aboard Alcor, the 115-foot yacht that BMW Oracle uses for entertaining, and spent an impossibly pleasant day on the water, eating tournedos of Argentine beef and drinking champagne, while the captain kept us within spitting distance of the racers. Such plums are portioned out to high-powered executives or to whatever celebrity ambles through Valencia -- Demi Moore was a recent recipient. On other teams they serve as management perks, used by a sponsor to reward star performers. After scoring an invitation to the Alinghi hospitality boat, I found myself surrounded by several dozen mid-level managers from UBS, the Swiss financial-services firm that sponsors Alinghi.
 To prepare the bankers for their role as America's Cup fans, Jochen Schuemann, Alinghi's sports director and one of its helmsmen, gave a seminar on match racing. Schuemann, a commanding three-time Olympic gold medalist, loomed over a small whiteboard, carefully diagramming match strategy and the tactical geometry that a skipper might employ during a race. Fifteen minutes into this tutorial, one of the bankers shot up his hand. 
 ''Which is starboard again?'' he asked.
 ''Alinghi'' is a nonsense word, invented by Ernesto Bertarelli as a child. In past interviews he has said that he simply enjoyed the sound it made. Of late, he claims the word is a brand, connoting freedom, determination, partnership and cutting-edge technology. (As you might suspect, Bertarelli is a business school graduate.) Because brands require visuals, Bertarelli commissioned a logo in the form of a stylized letter ''a,'' its serif stretched into a pair of circling yachts, representing the portion of a match known as a pre-start. America's Cup racers attach an almost mystical importance to the pre-start. Often described as a boxing match, it more closely resembles a game of musical chairs with mixed-up rules: rather than sprinting to the center when the music stops, the boats break frantically for the starting line, each hoping to nab the side with the better wind.
 As the current champion, Alinghi did not participate in the Louis Vuitton Cup, having earned a sort of bye. Thus its last opportunity to compete one-on-one against the competition was in a series of races held in Valencia almost a year ago, known as Act 12. In one of Alinghi's last matches of this act, it happened to face New Zealand. Most veteran Cup handicappers I spoke to in Valencia believed that New Zealand would win the Louis Vuitton Cup, and thus meet Alinghi in a rematch of 2003. Should New Zealand win back the America's Cup -- and with it the Deed of Gift -- the speculation is that the team will undo the many changes made by Bertarelli over the past four years. This subtext injects a certain zing into contests between the two teams, and the Act 12 pre-start featuring the two boats was typically dramatic.
 Dean Barker, a 34-year-old Tom Brady look-alike, skippers New Zealand. In 2003, Barker helmed the New Zealand boat when it lost the Cup; lately, however, he has had success, winning half of his races against Alinghi. With less than 60 seconds remaining in the pre-start, and the boats circling warily, Barker abruptly tacked, taking Alinghi by surprise. He swept behind the Swiss boat, timed the starting gun perfectly and secured the favored side of the course. Alinghi broke for the line as well. Soon the boats, as the race announcer described it, were ''stuck together like a piece of bungee.'' 
 Brad Butterworth, an avuncular New Zealander who had been Russell Coutts's second-in-command and is now Alinghi's skipper, inched closer to Barker. (Bertarelli, by the way, is a runner/grinder on the boat -- a situation roughly analogous to Mark Cuban playing power forward for the Dallas Mavericks.) The skippers carved their way upwind, pursued by a chaotic armada of spectators. When they rounded the windward marker, New Zealand held a lead of eight seconds.
 In racing, the object is not to go fast, exactly, but to make your opponent go slow. One weapon skippers use to achieve this is their boat's wind shadow: the pie-shaped wedge of disturbed air that spills off a yacht. On upwind runs the leading boat uses this weapon to spoil the trailing boat's air. On downwind legs the advantage flips, and the trailing boat tries to steal the leading boat's wind. What typically follows in such situations is a tacking duel, a spectacular stretch of action in which one boat veers wildly, attempting to break free of the other. A duel can require as many as 50 tacks in a single leg, rocketing grinders' heart rates to 200 beats per minute and severely testing a crew's stamina. Boats also suffer horribly, struggling to remain intact as their massive sails fight the 20-ton keel. Yachts signal their distress with a loud array of cracks and pops, and with long, mournful moans. ''They really cry for help, these boats,'' said Christoph Erbelding, an engineer with BMW Oracle. (After a ride aboard an American boat in 2003, Robin Williams remarked that the sound was like that of ''an old man trying to have sex.'')
 Races are 14 miles, with four roughly equal legs. They last about 75 minutes. Alinghi and New Zealand clashed for almost an hour, speeding down the course, rounding and fighting their way upwind, then rounding a final time. In theory, an America's Cup race tests the skill of the crew (on the upwind legs) and the speed of the boat (on the downwind runs). But the reality is more simple, as Koch explained: ''Only fast boats win. And the team that wins is not the most brilliant, but the one that makes the fewest mistakes.''
 As it prepares to defend the Cup, Alinghi drills six days a week, on the water and in the classroom, learning how to react to every conceivable racing situation. Team members practice a method of speaking on the boat, using specific syntax and shifts in tone to signal changes in tactic or an increased level of urgency. They codify a system of making decisions, so that if the strategist clinging to the mast 90 feet in the air spots a stain moving across the water, his message that the wind is about to shift will speed without error through the crew's nervous system and arrive at its brain. ''Nothing's taken for granted,'' Alinghi's John Russell, a boat builder, told me. ''Everything's checked off, everything's looked at, everything's investigated. It's a pretty clinical kind of a team.'' 
 All the while, Alinghi's scientific advisers -- a Ph.D.-laden bunch from Geneva's renowned Acole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne -- works to replicate George Steers's feat from 146 years ago. (''It's a technology contest,'' one Cup veteran said. ''As it has been since 1851.'') The trick is to build a boat forever on the verge of breaking. ''To make it as light as possible,'' BMW Oracle's Erbelding explained, ''but as strong as possible, too.'' Teams construct their boats to suit the conditions that historically prevail at the venue. But weather is increasingly fickle and forecasting imprecise. In 2003, New Zealand staked the Cup on a boat designed to sail best in light wind and flat water. Conditions, however, turned out to be atypically harsh. During the first race, New Zealand's boat took on so much water it almost sank. In the fourth race, the mast snapped. In the fifth race, the spinnaker broke. Alinghi arrived in Auckland with a boat that happened to be better for the conditions as they existed at that fleeting moment. Because of this good fortune, Bertarelli won his Cup.
 Ten minutes offshore of Valencia, Alinghi and New Zealand entered the final leg of their match. Barker had fought Alinghi through three-quarters of the race, and still held a boat's length advantage. Both crews struggled to find hidden speed. ''Expect kitchen sinks and all sorts to be thrown!'' the announcer said.
 The boats had sailed far to the opposite sides of the course, hunting clear air. Now they turned toward each other, roaring at full power toward a likely collision. 
 ''Last-chance leg!'' the announcer cried. ''What happens now?'' 
 Bertarelli was poised at his station, calmly focusing his breath before the final charge.
 ''Here they go!''
 Alinghi bore down on New Zealand from the starboard side, the boats almost close enough to touch, Butterworth pressuring Barker to make a move. New Zealand jibed to block, but Alinghi countered perfectly and slid smoothly past. New Zealand's crew scrambled to regain its advantage. Races hinge on the most minor of miracles -- a shift of wind, a slip of a hand. Barker's boat began to slow. 
 ''Crew error!''
 A moment later New Zealand's spinnaker spilled its air, sagging sadly from the mast. Alinghi sped across the finish line. ''That's the first time the pressure has gotten to the New Zealand team,'' the announcer said. ''Brilliant sailing by Alinghi.''
 The America's Cup is the only sport in which a team, if it fails to win the championship, often ceases to exist. (Imagine 31 N.F.L. teams disbanding after the Super Bowl.) Historically, only about one in 10 campaigns continues after a loss. The others vanish, their accounts emptied and syndicates dismantled. Cup historians speak of a ''curse of the America's Cup.'' Men who failed in their quest have lost their families and their fortunes. At least two have committed suicide. ''It's such a public event,'' Bill Koch explained. ''And when you lose, it breaks you.'' Larry Ellison has said, ''All these guys are not exactly having fun. This is extremely stressful stuff. It is a lot more fun to watch than it is to do.'' One team's psychologist told me, ''It's four years of their lives. And it all comes down to whether you win a race or not. That's a terrible thing.''
 Early one morning in Valencia, I went to see Bertarelli at the Alinghi base. He was seated at a low white table set with fresh strawberries and cream, orange juice and croissants. Bertarelli didn't eat anything, merely sipping his coffee while he piloted a strawberry on a plate.
 ''The last time,'' he said, ''winning the Cup was a bonus. This time there is no other alternative but winning. No matter how well we would have done in regard to many other aspects of our campaign, we would still be judged a failure. It's what makes sports what it is. It's binary -- you win, you lose. Here, you win, you're on top of the world. You lose, you're nothing. You're gone. You don't exist anymore.''
 Bertarelli's summary seemed a little dire, as did the other all-or-nothing sentiments voiced by those teams who truly expected to win the Cup. It got me wondering. A few weeks after I left Valencia, I sent an e-mail to Xavier de Lesquen, to see how he and his Chinese friends were faring. His reply arrived in the middle of the night. ''Part of the team has left,'' he wrote. ''We keep at Valencia a core team of people to operate the base and welcome the guests. Maybe some days of sailing on Longtze with guests. . . .
 ''As far as I am concerned -- In Valencia until end of the AC, then jump to Brittany, my home place, to enjoy the life in my small house in front of a lonely beach with my old wooden dinghy. . . .
 ''Kind Regards! Xavier.'' 
 John Tayman is the author of ''The Colony,'' about the leper colony of Molokai, and a contributing writer to Play. He lives in San Francisco. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lowering the spinnaker aboard Sweden's Victory Challenge. (Photo by Fernando Bustamante/Associated Press)
Alinghi in pursuit of Emirates Team New Zealand, in April. (Photo by Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)
Ernesto Bertarelli, Alinghi's owner and deckhand. (Photo by Gillian Laub for The New York Times)
The good life in Port America's Cup. (Photo by Gillian Laub for The New York Times)
Lowering the spinnaker aboard Sweden's Victory Challenge. (Photo by Fernando Bustamante/Associated Press)
Alinghi in pursuit of Emirates Team New Zealand, in April. (Photo by Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)
Ernesto Bertarelli, Alinghi's owner and deckhand. (Photo by Gillian Laub for The New York Times)
 The good life in Port America's Cup. (Photo by Gillian Laub for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (89%); SAILING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (88%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (93%); SPAIN (91%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



63 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Our Green Bubble

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Surely the most glaring contrast in American political life today is the amount of words, speeches and magazine covers devoted to the necessity of ''going green,'' ''combating climate change'' and gaining ''energy security,'' and the actual solutions being offered by our leaders to do any of these things. You could very comfortably drive a Hummer through the gap between our words and deeds. 
 We are playing pretend -- which, when you think about it, is really troubling. Here are the facts: Our worst enemies, like Iran, have been emboldened by all their petrodollars. The vast majority of scientists tell us that global warming caused by our burning of fossil fuels is a real danger. And with three billion new consumers from India, Russia and China joining the world economy, it is inevitable that manufacturing clean, green power systems, appliances, homes and cars will be the next great global industry. It has to be, or we will not survive as a species. 
And yet and yet our president and our Congress still won't give us an energy bill that would create the legal and economic framework to address these issues at the speed and scale required.
 If you were President Bush, wouldn't you want to leave behind something big, bold and important on energy, just in case -- you know, just in case -- Iraq doesn't turn out so well? 
 I sure would. But the president still has not challenged Congress or the country to undertake a radical departure on energy. So we still have only ''energy politics,'' not ''energy policy.'' Like previous energy bills, the packages working through the House and Senate today represent more ''the sum of all lobbies,'' as the energy expert Gal Luft, co-chairman of the Set America Free Coalition, puts it, not the sum of our best ideas.
 Some lawmakers are pushing corn ethanol from Iowa, either because they hail from that area and are looking to give more welfare to farmers by wasting money on an alternative fuel that will never reach the scale of what is needed, or because they plan to run in the Iowa caucuses. Others are pushing huge subsidies to turn coal into gasoline, because they come from coal states. Those who don't come from Michigan want higher mileage standards imposed on Detroit, while those who come from Michigan prefer to continue their assisted suicide of the U.S. auto industry by blocking tougher mileage requirements. 
 ''The only green that they are serious about in Congress right now is the one with Ben Franklin's picture on it,'' Mr. Luft said. 
 Yes, it is helpful that Mr. Bush expressed a desire last week to work with other nations to limit greenhouse gases. His bully pulpit matters. But no one will -- or should -- take him seriously unless his government first leads by example. What would that look like? It has to start with a clear, long-term price signal. That is, a carbon tax or gasoline tax -- or a cap and trade system with a binding national ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions -- which would set a price for dumping carbon into the atmosphere or driving a gas-guzzling car.
 Get Washington to signal that gasoline is never going to retreat from a level of $3.50 or $4 a gallon -- and that wind and solar subsidies will be there for a decade, not stop and start as they always have before; get Washington to commit to buying a fixed volume of solar and wind power for government buildings and Army bases for 10 years, with only U.S.-based manufacturers able to compete for contracts; get Washington to set a new fleet average of 35 miles per gallon for Detroit within 10 years -- with no loopholes; establish government loan guarantees for any company that wants to build a nuclear power plant; and, finally, build a national transmission grid -- a green power superhighway -- so that solar energy from Arizona or wind from Wyoming can power homes in Chicago. Do all that and our private sector will take America from green laggard to green leader.
 Unfortunately, Congress is brewing instead a hodgepodge of incrementalism. This is particularly disappointing when America's corporate icons -- G.M., G.E., A.I.G., DuPont, PepsiCo -- ''have all come out in favor of a national mandatory limit on carbon emissions,'' notes Fred Krupp, president of Environmental Defense. ''But Democrats and Republicans in the Senate have not risen to their challenge.'' 
 We have a multigenerational problem that requires a systemic, multigenerational response, and that can happen only if we get our energy prices right. Only that will guarantee green innovation and commercialization at scale. Anything less is wasted breath and wasted money -- and any candidate who says otherwise is only contributing to global warming by adding hot air.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); BIOFUELS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); ETHANOL (69%); ALCOHOLS (69%); SUICIDE (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



64 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Shattering Stereotypes About Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
AS immigration legislation slowly makes its way through Congress, the debate about illegal immigrants' role in the economy has intensified. To some people, they represent a black-market work force that is lowering the wages of legal immigrants and native-born Americans. To others, they are an essential part of several big industries. What's the truth?
 Getting the whole truth is not easy, because illegal immigrants are not always easy to find, interview or otherwise include in government or private surveys. But some broad facts seem to be emerging, and they may shatter some preconceived notions: illegal immigrants do not just pick fruit, they do not just work off the books, they rarely earn less than the minimum wage and they may even be raising employment without harming incomes.
For example, there are plenty of illegal immigrants who are not working on farms along the West Coast, gardening or providing child care, according to figures from the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group in Washington. About 20 percent of illegal immigrants work in construction, 17 percent in leisure and hospitality industries, 14 percent in manufacturing and 11 percent in wholesale and retail trade. 
 In addition, illegal immigrants represent a substantial share of overall employment in quite a few industries, some of which require extensive skills and training. They may make up at least 10 percent of the work force in construction, leisure and hospitality, and in agriculture and related industries, according to figures calculated by the Pew Hispanic Center. But in specific occupations like cooking, painting, washing cars, packaging by hand and installation of carpets and floors, they may make up 20 percent or more. 
 Those industries badly need immigrant labor, far in excess of government quotas for legal immigrants. ''We need a million-plus workers added to our work force over the next five or six years, and that is associated with people leaving the work force and obviously the forecasted growth in construction,'' said Wayne A. Crew, executive director of the Construction Industry Institute, an industry-sponsored research group at the University of Texas at Austin. ''The numbers I've seen also indicate that about 60 percent or so of the new workers coming into the industry are Hispanic or Latino. So you can start to understand if you can expect that 600,000 of the new workers you're going to need are in fact coming from somewhere else, then if they don't come, it puts a bit of a stretch on your labor force.''
 A shortage of immigrant labor picking fruit on farms in the West has indeed made the news recently, but it disguises a much larger issue. Illegal immigrants also help big agribusinesses to keep prices low by working in processing and packaging, said Katherine A. Ozer, executive director of the National Family Farm Coalition, a lobbying group in Washington. Though family farms may depend on them to a lesser extent, she said, dairies and other operations do need immigrant labor. Without them, she said, the structure of the industry would have to change.
 In many cases, the jobs held by illegal immigrants are far from the minimum- or subminimum-wage stereotype, as well. Though the work itself is often unpleasant, the pay rates are commonly in the range of $10 to $20 an hour, said Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior research associate at the Pew center.
 ''There are some indications that the majority of these workers, maybe 55 to 65 percent, are not in the underground economy,'' Mr. Passel said. ''They're getting paid the same wage rates as everybody else is in those companies. It's written down, and if they work there long enough, they'll get health insurance and everything else.''
 The obvious question is how these immigrants' presence is affecting the overall labor market, especially in these midlevel occupations.
 Using Mr. Passel's figures, it seems likely that there are about eight million illegal immigrants with jobs right now. That is quite a bit more than the roughly 6.5 million unemployed people counted by the Census Bureau (some of whom might actually be illegal immigrants). Even if all illegal immigrants were deported overnight -- the current bill would instead offer them a path to legal status -- the rest of the work force might not be able to fill their jobs.
 Indeed, the presence of illegal immigrants may actually be increasing overall employment, and at little cost to wages, suggested Robert J. LaLonde, a professor of public policy at the University of Chicago. He said that these immigrants increase the overall supply of labor. If demand remains the same, their presence raises the number of jobs in the economy but lowers wages for everyone. But Professor LaLonde said that demand for labor is likely to increase, too, as investment money follows immigrant workers into the country.
 ''The evidence of the effect they have on labor markets in terms of depressing the wages of native-born Americans is quite unclear,'' he said. ''Capital is a much more mobile factor than labor is, so if labor's moving in, you better believe that capital's not too far behind.''
 Professor LaLonde added that the presence of illegal immigrants in some service jobs makes it easier for Americans to participate in the labor force. The immigrants act as complements to higher-wage workers, who can then participate in greater numbers and become more productive. For instance, he said, ''it's easier for women to work because you can hire more baby-sitters.''
 Still, if illegal immigrants are often working side by side with native-born Americans and legal immigrants, it is worth asking whether they are reducing opportunities for others. Professor LaLonde dismissed that as unlikely, because in many cases an illegal immigrant may offer a combination of skills and cost that other workers simply cannot match.
 Potential American competitors ''would like these jobs, but they don't want to work at the lower price,'' Professor LaLonde said. ''Mexican day labor doesn't get paid $5 an hour; they're getting paid $8 or $9 an hour. But if you're going to try to beat them at their own game, given that you're not as qualified as they are, you're going to have to undercut their price.''
 IF illegal immigrants weren't present at all, Professor LaLonde conceded, others might have more incentive to train for those occupations. ''But over all, the U.S. would be poorer,'' he said. That is something for members of Congress to think about as they amend the new bill.
 Moreover, existing training programs have not necessarily resulted in a big influx of native-born Americans into immigrant-heavy industries.
 ''The construction industry, at least, is viewed as an unattractive industry,'' Mr. Crew said. ''Other industries are competing for those same people, so the wages in those industries are rising at the same time. It's a competition for people.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Dallas, men gathered in hopes of being hired. Construction is attracting many illegal immigrants, but so is manufacturing. (Photo by L. M. Otero/Associated Press) Chart: ''A Wider Range of Jobs'' Only a small percentage of illegal immigrants work in agriculture, according to the Pew Hispanic Center's estimates for 2005. Most work in service industries. Percent of the undocumented work force who work in: Construction: 19.9% Manufacturing: 14.3 Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting: 3.9 Mining: 0.2 SERVICE INDUSTRIES Leisure and hospitality: 17.2 Professional and business services: 12.9 Wholesale and retail trade: 11.4 Education and health services: 5.6 Financial activities: 3.2 Transportation and utilities: 3.0 Information: 1.2 Other services: 7.2 (Source by Pew Hispanic Center, from Census Bureau data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); LOBBYING (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); AGRICULTURE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); FLOORING (64%); CHILD CARE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



65 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; POSSESSED; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: When in the Netherlands

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
''ARE WE ROME?'' is a much-talked-about new book, but if Justin Giunta were to write his own treatise about the glory of the United States, he might use a different title.
 ''Are We Amsterdam?'' isn't as catchy, true, but for Mr. Giunta, the current zeal for luxury goods summons not the Roman Empire but the Dutch Golden Age of the 17th century, when well-to-do merchants helped create the first truly capitalist country, with a hugely prosperous trade empire.
Mr. Giunta, 28, is not an upstart economic theorist with a book to peddle, but he is a clever observer of 17th- and 21st-century fashions nonetheless. 
 His line, Subversive Jewelry, often combines styles of different eras, and it has earned him a nomination for emerging accessories designer of the year from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, whose awards ceremony is tomorrow night. 
 Citing a penchant for things he called ''beautiful, but a little aggressive, with a narrative to tell,'' Mr. Giunta said he has long been fascinated by Dutch Baroque art, which he studied in painting school. He has a special fondness for the still life, particularly those painted by Ambrosius Bosschaert, Pieter Claesz, Jan Davidsz. de Heem and Willem Claesz. Heda. 
 ''These painters were like the Prada or Gucci of their day -- in the hierarchy of painting, they were the brand names,'' Mr. Giunta said.
 With religious subjects falling into disfavor, these artists devoted themselves to exquisitely rendered compositions of what might today be called status objects -- exotic seashells, fancy flowers, costly foodstuffs, silver and glass knickknacks and baroque bouquets. 
 But of all the extravagances that reflected the country's new wealth and glory, Mr. Giunta became most fixated on the bouquets' vases: typically baroque handblown Venetian goblets of sap-green glass. As an art student at Carnegie Mellon University, he lusted after them. He even got in trouble in 2001, when as an intern at the artist Robert Wilson's art and theater center in Water Mill, N.Y., he saw that Mr. Wilson had a collection and decided to drink from one. Mr. Wilson did not appear amused.
 A year later, a Dutch friend found and gave Mr. Giunta a goblet of his own. Touched, he vowed not to keep and admire it on a shelf, but to use and love it. 
 You can guess how that ended. 
 Even after it shattered, the knowledge that the glasses could still be found fired his obsession anew. When his Subversive Jewelry line took off, he said his first indulgence was to march into ABC Home on Broadway and buy a dozen reproductions -- handblown in the Czech Republic, they cost about $70 each. He uses them every day; his collection grew to almost 30. 
 ''They're surprisingly resilient,'' he said. ''They've been dropped, bounced, kicked.'' 
 Still, six or so of them have eventually felt destiny's final blow -- a few of them in the dishwasher.
 ''My heart breaks every time,'' he said. ''But using them so outweighs the risk or the loss. Even when they break, they've been paid for in use value alone.'' 
 Their fragility nicely illustrates another Dutch painting tradition: the vanitas, a lovely still life to which the painter added a skull as a reminder that, well, you can't take it with you. Or that it's better to ruin an item of great beauty than to keep it behind glass forever. It's a lesson that all empires -- Roman, Dutch, Prada, Gucci -- have to contend with, sooner or later. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE GLORY THAT WAS HOLLAND -- The jewelry designer Justin Giunta toasts the Dutch Golden Age. (Photographs by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); CLASSICS (78%); JEWELRY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); THEATER (60%)

COMPANY: WILSON'S ART STUDIO INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%) NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (88%); CZECH REPUBLIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



66 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: A League of His Own

BYLINE: By JAY JENNINGS. 
Jay Jennings is a frequent contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
OPENING DAY
 The Story of Jackie Robinson's First Season.
 By Jonathan Eig.
 Illustrated. 323 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26.
Sports anniversaries pile up with insidious regularity. Whereas a D-Day comes around only once a war, the Super Bowl adds another Roman numeral every January (or February), and college basketball gives us the Final Four like clockwork every March (or April). This all but guarantees that in 5- or 10-year increments, we will look back in sepia tones with weepy eyes at various athletic accomplishments, replaying their ''firsts'' and measuring their importance. Only a few justify such commemoration. Some live on from sheer spontaneous drama, as with Bobby Thomson's 1951 home run. Some gather weight over time, as with the victory of Texas Western's black starting five against an all-white Kentucky team in the 1966 N.C.A.A. basketball finals. And a handful are heavy with significance both at the moment and long beyond, as with Jackie Robinson's entry into major-league baseball as its first modern-day African-American player, 60 years ago this season -- an operatic tale cannily orchestrated by Branch Rickey, the president of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and brilliantly performed by Robinson. 
 No American sports story has been so often told, and no athlete so rightly deemed a hero. From the long shelf of books, a number by Robinson himself and his family, we know indisputably that he bore epithets and real threats with stoicism and dignity while executing on the field with consummate skill and characteristic abandon. Rickey, a wily lawyer, gave Robinson the best chance he could to succeed by assigning him to the Dodgers' minor-league team in the outpost of Montreal for a year as a test run and by stage-managing the release of information -- like what position he would play -- to reduce the pressure on him (and on the player whose job he might take). On Robinson's end, had he produced even a little less spectacularly than he did, batting .297 and scoring 125 runs in leading the Dodgers to the World Series, or exploded in anger even once, the so-called great experiment would have stalled. Yes, integration of baseball was inevitable, but one could not imagine a smoother, more elegant bridge to it than the Brooklyn one constructed by Rickey and Robinson.
 In 1997, for the 50th anniversary of Robinson's dash through the color barrier, Arnold Rampersad (whose biography of Ralph Ellison was recently published) came out with the definitive account of Robinson's life, leaving others to atomize the player's career further. Chris Lamb's ''Blackout: The Untold Story of Jackie Robinson's First Spring Training,'' for example, was published a few years ago. And now we have ''Opening Day: The Story of Jackie Robinson's First Season,'' by Jonathan Eig, who crosses boroughs on a subway series of his own after his well-received biography of the Yankees' Lou Gehrig (''Luckiest Man'') from two years ago.
 History has a way of playing cruel jokes, and this anniversary comes at a time when persuading black athletes to choose baseball (over basketball and football) has proved almost as much of a challenge as allowing them in was more than half a century ago. As of 2005, the number of African-American players in the major leagues had dipped to 8.5 percent, the lowest in 26 years, according to a study by the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport. In 1985, Vince Coleman of the St. Louis Cardinals answered a Robinson-related query with: ''I don't know nothin' about him. Why are you asking me about Jackie Robinson?'' Now, according to C. C. Sabathia, the only African-American player on the Cleveland Indians' roster at the end of last year, the question has regressed to kids in his California hometown asking him, ''What's baseball?'' In ''Opening Day,'' I learned that the 1947 Dodgers, therefore, after they acquired Dan Bankhead in August to join Robinson, had twice the number of African-American players as the Indians of 2006.
 That current dearth would seem reason enough to celebrate the publication of another work about Robinson, especially one that compresses the most dramatic year of his career into a tidy package that doesn't pretend to be comprehensive and so promises to be more accessible than a monument like Rampersad's book or Jules Tygiel's ''Baseball's Great Experiment.'' Eig's brisk chronicle is full of local color and period details that recreate a bygone age of athletes who scraped by like other working stiffs, holding down off-season jobs and traversing the city on the subway rather than in tinted-window Escalades. Train travel was still de rigueur for away games; the Brooklyn manager, Burt Shotton, wore street clothes with a bow tie (thus restricting him to the bench, since only those in uniform were allowed on the field); TV viewers saw the World Series on ''gray screens no bigger than a lunchbox''; and many players were from the segregated South, including two Dodgers nicknamed Dixie. Robinson and his wife, Rachel, with a new son, Jack Jr., rented a room from a single woman in a Bedford-Stuyvesant brownstone, where they shared her bathroom. Hardly the TriBeCa penthouse that the former Mets catcher Mike Piazza recently showed off in Elle Decor magazine.
 Against this backdrop, Eig recounts the flash points that have grown into myths and largely reduces them from grand opera to folk song, a story of endurance and forbearance rather than sturm und drang. Dixie Walker, a popular Alabamian who supposedly led an internal team revolt, is portrayed as mostly concerned about how playing with Robinson might affect his hardware business back home. A famous gesture of support from Pee Wee Reese, the Kentucky-born shortstop who reputedly threw his arm around Robinson on the field to quiet a hostile crowd, is presented as largely apocryphal, and an alleged strike by the Cardinals as very likely a media exaggeration. Eig's deflation of the extremes of both opposition and support seems more complexly true and does justice to the man rather than the legend.
 Restraint and circumspection -- by Rickey, by the black fans who thronged both Ebbets Field and other parks, by most of the press, and, of course, by Robinson -- marked the integration of baseball more than any confrontation did. Rickey consulted with the sociologist Dan Dodson before hatching his plan, and the blueprint could have been lifted directly from Gunnar Myrdal's suggestions for integrating the workplace from his 1944 classic, ''An American Dilemma'': ''If Negro workers are introduced a few at a time, if they are carefully picked, if the leaders of the white workers are taken into confidence and if the reasons for the action are explained, then the trouble can be minimized, and the new policy may eventually become successful.'' This approach panned out, but took its toll on Robinson, a lonely figure celebrated by fans but not embraced by his teammates, even sympathetic ones. And during that year, Robinson never had to travel farther south than Cincinnati or St. Louis to test restraint as a tactic. Certainly, over the next two decades, in Little Rock, Birmingham and other places where the battlegrounds weren't baseball diamonds, stronger action would be required.
 Eig's analysis and prose are hit-and-miss. His structural gambit of interviewing contemporary figures and relating their memories of Robinson works with the Bronx-raised former Secretary of State Colin Powell -- ''We said, 'Oh, Lord, don't let him strike out.' The greatest fear was that he wouldn't do well, and that would be a mark against all of us'' -- but more often interrupts the flow of events with cloying sentimentality, as when he says of an aspiring teenage journalist, ''Only then did he begin to realize that life in America was different for black people.'' At several points where the writing induces a grimace (''As summer rounded second and headed for third...''), I began to suspect that the book, despite an impressive number of interviews and deep research, had been rushed for the anniversary release.
 Still, with the Bums pushing the Yankees to seven games in the World Series and Robinson being named rookie of the year, it's a difficult story to tell badly, and it will be worth telling again in another 10 years -- if that generation is not still asking, ''What's baseball?'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Safe: Robinson stole home in the 1955 World Series against the Yankees. (Photo by Mark Kauffman/Sports Illustrated) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (88%); BASKETBALL (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



67 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Dow and S.& P. End the Week at Record Highs

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was a short but glorious week for the stock market, with both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closing on Friday at record highs. 
 On Friday, a government report showed a surge in job creation in May. And an inflation gauge favored by the Federal Reserve -- the core personal consumption expenditure deflator -- rose in April at the relatively modest annualized rate of 2 percent.
Wal-Mart Stores gained 6.1 percent for the week, the best performance among the Dow industrials. The company said it would repurchase $15 billion of its shares. 
 Archstone-Smith, the real estate investment trust, rose 20.4 percent, the best weekly performance in the S.& P. 500. Archstone-Smith is being acquired for $22.2 billion by Tishman-Speyer and Lehman Brothers. 
 The market was closed on Monday for Memorial Day. For the week, the Dow rose 160.83 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 13,668.11. The S.& P. 500 gained 20.61 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 1,536.34. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 56.73 points, or 2.2 percent, to close at 2,613.92. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.95 percent from 4.86 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS'' Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. WellPoint NYSE: WLP The health insurer ousted its chief financial officer, saying an investigation by outside lawyers indicated that he had violated the company's code of conduct. WellPoint said that no illegal conduct was involved. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $81.78 WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.62% EST. '07 P/E: 14.73 Apple NNM: AAPL The computer company said a free software download would allow viewers with Apple TV to watch video from Google's YouTube on their televisions. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $118.40 WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.21% EST. '07 P/E: 33.37 Avaya NYSE: AV The telecommunications company is negotiating to sell a part or all of itself, executives briefed on the negotiations said. Among those said to be interested are Cisco Systems, Nortel Networks and Silver Lake Partners. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.08 WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.63% EST. '07 P/E: 26.76 A. G. Edwards NYSE: AGE Wachovia said it would buy the brokerage firm for $6.8 billion in cash and stock, forming the second-largest retail stock brokerage firm in the United States, after Merrill Lynch. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $88.75 WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.33% EST. '07 P/E: 19.14 ABN Amro Holding NYSE: ABN The Royal Bank of Scotland Group and two other European banks made a $95.6 billion bid for the Dutch bank, challenging Barclays, whose bid had been accepted, in what would be the richest banking takeover. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $48.16 WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.23% EST. '07 P/E: 15.78 Qualcomm NNM: QCOM The wireless chip supplier was found guilty of infringing on three patents owned by a smaller rival, Broadcom, which was awarded $19.6 million in damages. Qualcomm said it would fight the verdict. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $42.77 WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.34% EST. '07 P/E: 22.95 Advanced Medical Optics NYSE: EYE The maker of contact lens cleaner said it had no explanation as to why its leading product, which it has recalled, might be contributing to an outbreak of eye infections. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.84 WEEK'S CHANGE: -13.33% EST. '07 P/E: 27.52 Dell NNM: DELL The computer company surprised Wall Street with a stronger-than-expected fiscal first quarter by reporting net income. Dell also said it would lay off 10 percent of its work force over the next 12 months to cut costs. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.30 WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.04% EST. '07 P/E: 21.04 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (72%); JOB CREATION (57%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (54%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



68 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1924 words

HEADLINE: Lower East Side Is Under a Groove

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
FOR decades, there was a discount men's suit shop at 183 Orchard Street. 
 Then, in 1995, came Kush, a stuccoed Moroccan-themed bar.
Then the bulldozers.
 And now, the 18-story Thompson Lower East Side hotel is rising on the site, with rooms to start at $395.
 That four-part history of one address -- from shmattes to hipsters to bulldozers to tourists -- is a summary of much of the recent evolution of the Lower East Side. On a Tuesday last month, Sion Misrahi, a real-estate dealmaker who has played a central and often contentious role in that history, stood in front of the hotel construction site and reflected on the moment, a dozen years ago, when he saw the future of the neighborhood.
 To that point, Mr. Misrahi, who started his working life as a 14-year-old pants salesman at his father's men's wear shop on Orchard Street, had been hoping to resuscitate the bargain-shopping culture originated by Jewish immigrants by creating a historic district, a sort of old-time theme park with pushcarts. 
 Instead, he changed course, advertising to fill some 18 vacant storefronts on a one-block stretch of Orchard Street by promoting them to night-life businesses.
 ''We decided to rent to bars and restaurants who would bring in the hipsters and change the neighborhood,'' Mr. Misrahi, 57, said. 
 Since that ''aha moment,'' when the bar Kush became his first night-life tenant, Mr. Misrahi has had a hand in scores of deals that have transformed the area, including the latest wave of hotels, condominium towers and boutiques. He is, in large part, responsible for the hipification (some may say the crassification) of the neighborhood, a district east of SoHo and south of the East Village. 
 As some of the early bohemian hangouts are being overwhelmed by a decidedly high-heeled and cologned crowd, and others give way to hotels and luxury rentals like the Ludlow, a 23-story brick-and-glass giant that looms over Katz's Delicatessen, Mr. Misrahi finds himself vilified by some longtime Lower East Side watchers (even though the Ludlow, the most visible symbol of gentrification, is one of the few projects he had nothing to do with).
 ''What Sion and those people should realize is they've let greed run rampant,'' said David McWater, the chairman of Community Board 3, which is advocating zoning changes to limit building heights and retain the area's historical charm. ''There have been no compromises. They let their greed decide rather than a combination of greed and conscience.''
 Love or hate the new Lower East Side (dubbed ''the Lower East Slide'' recently by The New York Post and mocked in the current Time Out New York as home to ''hipster zombies''), what is not debatable is that Mr. Misrahi's strategy of attracting bars and clubs, then vintage clothing stores and sex boutiques, has worked. By fostering an artsy culture, fertile ground was created for economic development, even if some of the original bohemian touchstones are gone. Collective Unconscious, a performance space, moved in 2003, shortly after Mr. Misrahi purchased the building.
 The storefront that housed House of Candles, an avant-garde playhouse, is now the Stanton Social, where diners sit on lizard-skin banquettes. And Tonic, a club for live music that opened on Norfolk Street in 1998, closed last month around the time that Blue, a glass condominium tower next door, welcomed residents who paid $850,000 for one-bedroom apartments.
 The demise of Tonic, whose owners explained on its Web site that ''we simply can no longer afford the rent and all the other costs associated with doing business on the Lower East Side,'' brought out more than 100 protesters. 
 Rebecca Moore, one of the protesters, said that the ''over-bar-ification'' and gentrification has created unbearable nighttime noise, and a culture where landlords will use every trick of the housing code to drive out rent-stabilized tenants.
 DESPITE the losses of some cultural capital, the perception of the neighborhood as cool by large developers -- not often the most cutting edge of folk -- is now firmly established.
 ''Lately there's been this real activity on the Lower East Side of great little restaurants, a great food scene, a really great bar scene,'' said Stephen Brandman, a co-owner of Thompson Hotels, a chain whose flagship is 60 Thompson in SoHo. ''It's the next area for tastemakers to go.'' 
 Those tastemakers will not find that everything funky is gone. A few doors from Mr. Brandman's hotel is Rockwood Music Hall, a bar where big-name musicians play on a tiny stage. On Ludlow Street, Pianos, which housed an experimental playhouse in the late 1990s, is now a thriving live-music hall and bar. A few doors south are two more popular music-performance spaces, the Living Room and the Cake Shop. Kush, displaced by the bulldozers, has moved to Chrystie Street, near the Box and a block south of a Whole Foods that opened in March.
 The developers who have come to cash in on what Mr. Misrahi helped build should be viewed, he said, as saviors. ''There are the creators and the nitpickers,'' he said. ''After they create, the other ones nitpick.''
 Mr. Misrahi, whose roots are deep in the neighborhood, walks the streets daily, greeting shop owners he has installed and landlords who have long known him. On Orchard Street a few weeks ago, two young Hasidic men greeted him and gave him cream pastries to celebrate Shavuot before ducking into one of the street's few remaining fabric stores.
 It was 1956 when Mr. Misrahi's father, Jay Misrahi, moved his pregnant wife and the young Sion from Larissa, Greece, to the neighborhood with the aid of a Jewish charity. Jay Misrahi ran Daniel's Clothing at 122 Orchard Street, where Sion would work on Sundays. At the age of 26, the younger Mr. Misrahi opened his own shop at 125 Orchard Street, Breakaway Fashions. 
 But by the late 80s, the growth of national discount stores and the end of blue laws that had left the Lower East Side one of the only places in the city to shop on Sundays were draining customers from the area. Mr. Misrahi was a leader of local businessmen and in 1991, with the help of a development consultant, he formed a Business Improvement District, which proposed rebranding the neighborhood as the Historic Orchard Street Bargain District.
 ''What the South Street Seaport has tried to do,'' Mr. Misrahi told The New York Times in 1993, ''we can do in a grittier, nonantiseptic manner.''
 It didn't work. Stores continued to close, including Mr. Misrahi's shop. In 1994, taking a new tack, he opened Misrahi Realty. ''I changed,'' Mr. Misrahi said, sitting in his office at 88 Rivington Street, the first building he bought, in 1979, using clothing store profits. ''Everyone changes.'' 
 Although Mr. Misrahi has had a hand in many deals -- as a rental and property broker, and as an arranger of meetings between neighborhood movers and shakers -- he does not own any of the new hotel or condominium towers. His neighborhood holdings are limited to eight tenement buildings, most of which he bought for less than $1 million (and could sell for eight times that). He is not a Donald Trump of the Lower East Side. But, arguably, his vision and relationships with landlords had more to do with the area's evolution than anyone else. 
 ''He literally gentrified the neighborhood over many years,'' said Jason Kim, the managing director of a partnership that owns local buildings. ''To do that, he carefully considered every tenant that he arranged with the building owners. Orchard Street had been a conservative shopping area, but now it has become more spicy.''
 Two of the businesses Mr. Misrahi persuaded Mr. Kim to take as tenants are Babeland, a sex-toy shop that opened in 1998, and Demask, a purveyor of leather and latex fetish wear, which opened on Orchard Street in 2006. Mr. Misrahi persuaded Mr. Kim to give both boutiques 10 percent discounts on their rent because he thought they would add to the spirit of the neighborhood.
 Until the latest surge of building, the most obvious manifestation of Mr. Misrahi's vision was the Hotel on Rivington, the 21-story green-glass tower that opened on the block between Ludlow and Essex in 2004. While Mr. Misrahi is not an owner, he negotiated and collected a commission on the sale of air rights that allowed the hotel to rise 15 stories above nearly everything else within a half-mile radius. He also negotiated the deal with the commercial tenant in the previous building at the address to leave. 
 Mr. Misrahi has mostly abandoned his earlier vision of widely preserving the neighborhood to which millions of Americans can trace their immigrant roots. But to others, that dream -- and not a vision of preserving the historical blip of a hipster Lower East Side -- endures. With other neighborhood groups, the Lower East Side Tenement Museum has asked the Landmarks Preservation Commission to establish a large historic district bordered by East Houston, Canal, Allen and Essex Streets.
 Without the old buildings, said Ruth Abram, the museum president, ''we risk losing conscience about what it is to be a stranger in the land.''
 While a gentrification that starts with bohemians and ends with bankers is not uncommon, Simeon Bankoff, the executive director of the Historic Districts Council, said the type of change that is happening on the Lower East Side is unusually reckless. He compared it to the meatpacking district, which has also been transformed into a night-life and hotel district, but where the shabby beauty of the low-lying buildings and rough cobblestone streets is largely intact.
 ''I worry about the neighborhood as we know the Lower East Side existing in five years in terms of the physical structure, the feeling of the area, the distinct sense of place you get from walking down the streets, from shopping in the stores,'' Mr. Bankoff said. ''I'm worried it's going to become this twisty canyon of gleaming high rises with absolutely no sense of all the generations of New Yorkers who lived in the area.''
 MR. MISRAHI opposes the landmarking, arguing that small landlords will not be able to afford to fix their buildings up to historical standards. The two blocks of Orchard Street south of Delancey near the museum, where a section of the street is made of newly installed cobblestone and pickles are sold from barrels streetside, are enough of a Lower East Side theme park to satisfy tourists, he said. 
 That said, there are some possible disruptions to the cultural landscape even Mr. Misrahi cannot stomach. The same day he visited the Thompson hotel site, he stopped into Katz's, the beloved 119-year-old purveyor of pastrami, where the owners say they have been listening to buyout offers from condominium developers. Mr. Misrahi does not want Katz's, which is a one-story structure, to leave.
 ''The soul of the Lower East Side will be ripped out,'' he said.
 Standing at the counter, sampling a slice of pastrami, he chatted with a co-owner, Alan Dell, and set up a meeting. Many offers for Katz's have been received through Misrahi Realty, including one that would keep the restaurant running at street level while building a residential building above, Mr. Misrahi said. The potential buyer might also market a line of Katz's cold cuts.
 After talking to Mr. Dell, Mr. Misrahi slid into a seat at a table, squirted mustard on his sandwich and said he preferred doing business by talking to people face to face. 
 ''I'm sure Trump does the same thing,'' he said, shrugging. ''Only over foie gras.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN A ZONE -- Sion Misrahi has revamped the Lower East Side, helping to transform old storefronts around Orchard Street into trendy businesses, including the Cake Shop, top left
Orchard restaurant, far left
and Tuts. But not everyone is impressed with the changes. (Photos by Joe Fornabaio for the New York Times, above
photographs by Daniel Barry for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMEBODY -- Sion Misrahi has deep Lower East Side roots but he opposes landmarking. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Daniel Barry for The New York Times)(pg. 10) Chart: ''Hipification: One Man's Footprint'' Sion Misrahi and his realty company have changed the face of the Lower East Side. Here are some of his deals of the past 12 years. 1. Broker on sale of a former fabric store, now Tut's bar. 2. Broker on sale of buildings on a lot where Thompson Hotels is building a 143-room boutique hotel. 3. Broker on sale of a one-story building, now a six-story apartment building. 4. Brokered the sale of several properties to the developer of a future condominium and hotel complex. 5. Rented storefront to Kropps & Bobbers, the neighborhood's first high-end hair salon. 6. Rented a one-story building to the Slipper Room nightclub. 7. Brokered the sale of a former fur shop to developers of a boutique hotel. 8. Oversaw construction of a six-story building, home to the Orchard restaurant, seller of $18 appetizers. 9. Rented a storefront to Hairy Mary's Vintage & Design clothing shop. 10. Negotiating a lease for a Japanese restaurant. 11. Rented a store to Demask, an S & M boutique. 12. Rented space to Teany, a tea shop co-owned by Moby. 13. Brokered the sale of the former Talmud Torah building, now a two-family home plus commercial space. 14. Rented store to Babeland, a sex toy shop. 15. Rented space to 'inoteca wine bar and restaurant. 16. Rented space for a coming Steve Madden shoe store. 17. Negoiated air rights for the 21-story Hotel on Rivington. 18. Bought the home of Collective Unconscious performance space and Baramundi bar in 2004. Demolished the building and is awaiting approval to erect an 8-story apartment building. 19. Rented space to Cake Shop record store and performance space. 20. Rented space to Shop, seller of women's shoes and lingerie. 21. Rented storefront to Las Venus, purveyors of midcentury modern design. Map of Manhattan highlighting the Lower East Side and locations listed above. (pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); MEN (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (72%); ZONING (67%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



69 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: That Household Name May Also Be a Value Stock

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
LIKE truth and beauty, the term ''value'' may be in the eye of the beholder. But experts say a few simple guideposts can help investors who are hunting for value stocks under most any market conditions. 
 Compared with their peers, for example, value stocks should have a high dividend yield, low volatility and a low price-to-earnings ratio, said Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. 
Based on these criteria, Mr. Stovall and several other strategists say, there is value to be found now in a startling place: among some of the most famous blue chips in America. Mr. Stovall cites financial services giants like Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America.
 Others list household names like General Electric, Johnson & Johnson and Procter & Gamble. The general argument is that the recent run-up in the broader stock market has turned the shares of these mainline companies into relative bargains. 
 For example, G.E., one of the great growth stocks of the 1990s, has a yield of 3 percent and a P/E ratio only a little higher than that of the overall S.& P. 500-stock index. ''That looks like a value to me,'' said Brian Rogers, the manager of the T. Rowe Price Equity Income fund.
 While P/E is the most important factor in evaluating a stock for value, it isn't everything, Mr. Stovall said. Investors should put that number into context.
 He pointed out that many industries historically have sold at discounts to the broader stock market. Energy and mining stocks, for example, have usually had lower P/E's than the rest of the market because of the cyclical nature of their businesses.
 And even when an industry has a bigger-than-usual discount, Mr. Stovall said, there is sometimes a good reason for that. He pointed to the energy stocks in the S.& P. 500 index, which are selling at discount of about 27 percent, compared with the average P/E for the index. 
 Historically, the energy stocks have sold for about 16 percent less than the index. Just looking at the P/E ratios, ''you might think energy stocks are cheap now,'' Mr. Stovall said.
 But S.& P. has a ''neutral'' rating on the energy industry because it expects earnings growth to come to a halt. The profits of the energy companies in the S.& P. 500 grew 44 percent in 2005 and by 25 percent in 2006; this year, S.& P. estimates that their earnings will actually fall, by 4 percent.
 At the moment, Mr. Stovall says, he thinks that a lot of the best value stocks are in financial services. He particularly favors insurance stocks -- whether the companies sell property and casualty insurance, or life and health insurance. 
 Insurance stocks have been ''beaten up'' lately, he said, because of concerns about this year's hurricane season. ''That wasn't necessarily the case before Katrina,'' Mr. Stovall said.
 He said that this period, before the heart of the hurricane season, might be a good buying opportunity for insurance stocks. Allstate and Chubb are among S.& P.'s top picks in the sector. 
 In financial services, Mr. Stovall also recommended Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. ''Those are all three large blue-chip companies that primarily pay shareholders through dividends, and some of them have yields that rival the 10-year note now,'' he said.
 Mr. Rogers, the manager of T. Rowe Price Equity Income, also favors financial stocks now. In fact, JPMorgan Chase is the fund's second-largest holding. 
 ''Their profitability has improved a lot, and it is one of very few companies in America with a triple-A balance sheet,'' he said. The fund's top holdings also include Citigroup and the American International Group, the big insurer.
 But Mr. Rogers said that many traditional value stocks were now too pricey for him to hold in a value fund. He said the most extreme examples were electric utility stocks -- which were once considered the bedrock of many value funds. Such stocks now make up just 3 percent of the portfolio he manages.
 On the other hand, G.E. is the largest holding in the portfolio. When the domestic stock market last peaked earlier in the decade, many growth funds owned G.E. stock. Now it is increasingly viewed as a value pick. Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist of Oppenheimer & Company said the main reason for this was that hedge funds and private equity funds were driving the recent run-up in domestic stocks, ''and they don't buy General Electric.''
 In fact, while the stock market has been climbing at home, individual American investors have been sending money overseas at a record pace. 
 In the 12 months ended in April, Americans poured a net $128 billion into foreign stock funds but only $13.6 billion into domestic stock funds, according to AMG Data Services.
 Mr. Metz said he thought that this was one reason that larger stocks -- like those in the S.& P. 500 -- still had relatively low P/E ratios compared with those of smaller stocks, or compared with their own historical averages. 
 The S.& P. 500 now has an average P/E of around 18, compared with a record high of 46.5 at the end of 2001. (The highest P/E came long after the stock market's peak, because earnings fell much faster than share prices.) In the last 20 years, the S.& P. 500 index has had an average P/E ratio of 22.7.
 BUT Mr. Metz said that when American households turned back to domestic stocks, they would favor large well-known companies like Procter & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson.
 He recommended that investors who were looking for a quick, inexpensive way to hold such large stocks consider an exchange-traded fund like the iShares S.& P. 100 Index fund, which owns the 100 largest stocks in the S.& P. 500 index.
 Like many other strategists, Mr. Metz said that investing in companies like these was similar to buying foreign stocks, because so much of their profit comes from overseas. This is another way for investors to benefit from the relatively weak dollar and rapid economic growth in developing markets, he said.
 ''If you buy General Electric or Johnson & Johnson,'' he said, ''you almost don't need a foreign stock fund.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DIVIDENDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



70 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Summer Doldrums? Maybe Not

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE old admonition to ''sell in May, then go away,'' seems to have gone unheeded this time around, as stocks rose through the month and ended the week at all-time highs.
 Selling in the early part of June would live up to the spirit of the adage, which takes note that the market's performance is often marginal, and sometimes much worse, from May to mid-October. Whether investors should mark the calendar and lighten up on their holdings depends on which adviser is consulted.
Timothy L. Swanson, chief investment officer of the private client group at National City, a Cleveland bank, is not planning to dump everything and head for the hills, but the potential seasonal headwind adds to his concerns about valuations and what he sees as investor complacency. He is encouraging caution before buying stocks and advising investors to do some selling if their portfolios contain a higher amount in equities than they usually do. 
 ''It's not a slam dunk that stocks are going down just because it's summer, but it does tend to be a below-average period,'' Mr. Swanson said. ''On the basis of fundamentals, we've become somewhat more cautious, but not overly bearish.''
 He has been bullish for four years, he said, but now the market has become ''roughly fairly valued,'' with more limited opportunity for further gains.
 ''As stocks have done well, particularly over the last six months, it gets to the point where valuations are not as compelling as they once were,'' Mr. Swanson said.
 But Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist for Citigroup Investment Research, still finds much about the market that compels him. He mentioned a palpable anxiety among investors that a top is approaching, in contrast to the relaxed attitude that Mr. Swanson observed.
 If you want to justify a bearish view, Mr. Levkovich said, ''you need complacency in the stock market, and you don't have it. '' He continued, ''Valuations, earnings estimates, sentiment are not at any kind of stretched level, or even close.''
 As for a seasonal pattern, he acknowledged that performance tends to dip in the summer, but said the effect has been less robust in recent years.
 Investors who might be tempted to put off buying until the leaves begin to fall should resist the urge, Mr. Levkovich said. After a string of quarters with year-to-year earnings growth above 10 percent, average estimates for the second quarter have dipped to the low- to mid-single digits.
 ''I'm going to get earnings releases in July,'' Mr. Levkovich said. ''I'm not saying they're going to beat the numbers, but it's not like we have this massive hurdle to get over.''
 He also pointed to the continued ravenous appetite for corporate acquisitions and the easy credit available to execute them. That could spell trouble in the somewhat distant future, he said, but it ought to prop up share prices into next year.
 ''I wouldn't put off purchases until the fall,'' he said. ''If you're an investor and the outlook is good over 6 to 12 months, do the next 3 months matter?'' DATA WATCH -- The highlight of a sparse calendar of economic reports this week may be the snapshot on Friday of the nation's trade balance in April. A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts a narrowing of the deficit to $63.5 billion from $63.9 billion in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



71 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: TVR's Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
LIKE the mythical Monty Python castle built on a swamp, which sank three times only to be rebuilt three times, one of Britain's last sports car makers has risen again after several near-death experiences and ownership changes.
 The company, TVR, would fit neatly in the comedic Python world, where cheese shops have no cheese to sell and hyper-litigious businessmen accidentally sue themselves. Consider its recent history: its third owner since 1981 was a 20-something Russian who actually owned the company twice in three years.
 The latest owners are two Florida men, Adam Burdette and Jean-Michel Santacreu, who took control of TVR in February. 
 Although neither man has run an auto company -- Mr. Burdette had been a car importer and Mr. Santacreu a hotel consultant -- they have already lined up suppliers and made plans to sell the cars in the United States beginning in 2008. Their flagship model is an evil-looking 380-horsepower car that the previous owner had introduced. 
 That owner, Nikolai Smolenski, 26, a Russian banker who once ran his father's banking group, had also never managed a car company. He bought TVR in July 2004, but lost control in 2006 to bankruptcy administrators -- who sold it back to him in February. Less than a week later, he sold the company to Mr. Burdette and Mr. Santacreu. 
 Like its corporate history, TVR's models were always a little odd, but they were often exciting hand-built sports cars. The company, which was based in Blackpool, England, took its name from three letters in the first name of its founder, Trevor Wilkinson. 
 The first TVR was built in 1947. A small number of club racing specials came in the next decade, but production did not really begin until the late 1950s when TVR hit on this formula: a light fiberglass body mounted on an even lighter tubular space frame. 
 Early TVRs were sold in two forms, as finished cars and as kits. But even the factory-built cars resembled kit cars, with fit and finish reminiscent of a high school shop project. It scarcely mattered because most early TVRs became racecars anyway. 
 The most exciting early TVR was created by Jack Griffith, a Long Island car dealer. Having seen what Carroll Shelby did with the Cobra, he put a Ford small-block V-8 into the TVR Grantura. At just 1,850 pounds and with up to 271 horsepower, the car was sensationally fast. 
 Unfortunately, with a wheelbase of just 85.5 inches and suspension, brakes and rear end scarcely changed from the four-cylinder car, the Griffith 200 was badly balanced and hard to control. To make matters worse, the cars overheated and the tremendous torque of their engines often broke axles, causing wheels to fly off. Even with all four wheels attached, Griffiths were nearly uncontrollable. 
 In 1965, Martin Lilley, who was 23 at the time, bought TVR after a dock strike in New York nearly bankrupted the company. Mr. Lilley discontinued the Griffith, but not before trying to tame the car, renaming the new version the Tuscan V-8. Road & Track magazine still called the car ''a ferret with an oversupply of Y chromosomes.''
 Mr. Lilley's 16-year stewardship of TVR was quite positive. In 1972, he introduced what would become the most popular model up to then, the 2500M. 
 Along with Mr. Lilley, Gerry Sagerman, the United States distributor from 1966 to 1980, set up a network of more than 30 dealers and was selling around 75 percent of TVR's total production. Sales usually totaled 500 to 600 cars a year, mainly the 2500M. 
 The American effort was hindered, Mr. Sagerman said, because the factory could not make enough cars to meet demand and the company was unable to get emission certification in California, which should have been TVR's largest American market. 
 Mr. Sagerman showed a new convertible model, the 3000S, at the 1978 Los Angeles Auto Show, but the reaction scared him.
 ''People were literally pushing money in my face trying to buy the cars,'' he said in an interview last month. ''I knew that there was no way we could satisfy even a fraction of the demand.''
 As a small-volume manufacturer, TVR had to rely on larger companies for major components. Steering columns, engines and transmissions for the 2500M came from the popular Triumph TR6 sports car. But it is the origin of the minor assemblies that confound restorers and owners. Factory support for these early cars is nonexistent, and the company did not leave a Rosetta Stone explaining where all the parts came from. 
 Members of TVR owners clubs have tried to discover the origin of the 2500M's parts. And while members now know that the door hinges are from a Ford Anglia and the hood latches from something called a Hillman Imp, they don't know the origin of the radiator overflow bottle. But it's all part of the fun of being part collector-car owner and part automotive archaeologist.
 Continually at the mercy of other manufacturers, TVR had to quickly substitute a Ford 3-liter V-6 in its next models, the Taimar and the 3000S, after the engine it had planned to use, a 2.5-liter in-line 6 from the Triumph TR6, became unavailable. (Triumph discontinued that car.) 
 Along with the Taimar Turbo, the pretty 3000S roadster is also quite collectible. Essentially a convertible Taimar, the 3000S had no rollup windows, instead using removable side curtains like the MGA and other vintage British sports cars. 
 By the end of the 1970s, inflation and exchange rates were pushing TVRs further upmarket, and Mr. Sagerman ended his association with TVR. Oliver Winterbottom, a former Lotus engineer, was brought in to work on what became the Tasmin, a wedge-shaped two-seat coupe and convertible.
 The development of the Tasmin, which later became the 280i, dragged on, and by the time TVR introduced the car, the wedge styling fad was just about over and inflation had pushed the 280i into competition with cars that it could not match in either quality or performance. Consequently, the wedge cars, as the 280i series became known, were hard to sell at anywhere near their sticker price of about $25,000.
 Marshall Moore, president of the TVR Car Club of North America, remembered a Toyota-TVR dealership in Washington that had many unsold TVRs. ''It was truly sad to see the little cars gathering dust or even cannibalized for spares when the factory stopped supporting them,'' he said. 
 In 1987, TVR pulled out of the American market, awash in unsold cars and unfulfilled warranty claims. Peter Wheeler, a chemical engineer who bought the company in 1981, vowed never to return. 
 Although the 280i was a pleasant sports car with great handling, prices have hardly appreciated. Hayes Harris, a classic car dealer and TVR expert in Vero Beach, Fla., said good examples were available for $10,000 to $12,000.
 At a meeting in Florida in March, the new owners met with prospective American dealers. Marian Posdamer, a company spokeswoman, said that Mr. Santacreu told the dealers that the company planned to assemble a network among established exotic-car dealers in major markets. The new owners brought to the meeting a Sagaris, the last model introduced in the Smolenski era and the flagship of the revived company, wrapped in an American flag to underscore their intentions. 
 The Sagaris will never be mistaken for a cuddly Miata. It has a demonic face with hornlike curved headlights. It looks just right for a $100,000 sports car that the company says is capable of 0-60 acceleration in 3.7 seconds. TVR also plans to sell another high-performance two-seater, the Tuscan. 
 Through Ms. Posdamer, Mr. Santacreu said TVR planned to use several companies as suppliers. He said I. M. Kelly Automotive, a British company that has worked on Aston Martins, Jaguars and Land Rovers, would supply interiors. Ricardo will assemble the engines, Hi Tech Automotive of South Africa will produce the bodies and chassis and the coachbuilder Bertone of Italy will do the final assembly work. 
 If the chat rooms and the blogosphere are any indication, some sports car buffs are eager to buy a TVR that performs like a new Viper or Corvette but looks even meaner. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HARD TO HANDLE A 1964-65 TVR Griffith 200.
380 HORSES Sagaris, TVR's new flagship.
A BEST SELLER The 1974 TVR 2500M.
NO ROLLUP WINDOWS A 1978 TVR 3000S.
WEDGE CAR The TVR 280i from the '80s. (Photo by Marshall Moore)
 (Photographs by Marshall Moore [vintage models]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CHEESE SHOPS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



72 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Let Them In, or Send Them Back?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Make a Bad Bill Better'' (editorial, May 29):
 There is another argument for a more constructive approach to those currently in the United States illegally.
As a fairly new American, I hugely admire the determination, optimism and drive that are part of the American character. I have come to realize that at least one reason for these characteristics is that the immigrants who came, whether legally or illegally, suffered extreme hardships to get here and often lived in appalling conditions while they worked hard to give their children opportunities in this new world. 
 Aren't some of our current illegal immigrants of the same cloth? They are optimistic and determined, hard workers who will suffer any hardship and uncertainty to achieve some opportunities for themselves and their children. 
 Maybe these are exactly the sort of people that the United States needs. Linda Senat New York, May 30, 2007 To the Editor:
 Where is the fairness to those immigrants who play by the rules to come here, often waiting as long as 10 years for a visa to become available? 
 Can anyone seriously believe that the proposed bill will alleviate the problem, rather than aggravate it? 
 In 1986, this country passed immigration reform legislation because deporting two million illegal immigrants was deemed ''impractical.'' Now we're facing 12 million illegal immigrants who probably came here encouraged by our abject failure to enforce our laws. 
 What will it be in 2027? Fifty million? Then what? 
 The message must be clearly and unequivocally conveyed: The United States will not reward those who have broken the law. Period. Vaughn A. Carney Stowe, Vt., May 29, 2007 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush Calls Attacks on Immigration Bill 'Empty Political Rhetoric' '' (news article, May 30):
 ''If you want to scare the American people, what you say is the bill's an amnesty bill,'' President Bush said on Tuesday. ''That's empty political rhetoric trying to frighten our citizens.''
 Despite the irony of Mr. Bush's remarks -- for who knows better than he how to frighten our citizens with empty political rhetoric -- he happens to be right on this one.
 The immigration bill has serious flaws, especially those aspects of it that prevent family unification and its unrealistic requirements with respect to temporary workers, but at least it puts to rest the foolish talk of sending about 12 million people back to where they came from.
 The bill deserves the support of the American people. John A. Viteritti Southold, N.Y., May 30, 2007 To the Editor:
 Re ''America the Generous: A Lost Story of Citizenship,'' by Lawrence Downes (Editorial Observer, May 27): When my four grandparents immigrated to this country, every immigrant who was in good health was granted admission at Ellis Island. 
 Today their grandchildren are making important contributions to our country. Among us are one cardiologist, one Ph.D. researcher, two teachers and two business people.
 The energy, motivation, talent and intelligence that immigrants bring to our shores did not end with my grandparents and their progeny. Two years ago my mother's life was saved by a brilliant, committed geriatrician -- who was also a new American citizen of Indian birth. 
 When we say no to those who are willing to give up their homes, extended families and languages to join us in this great adventure called America, we cut ourselves off from an incredibly vital source of renewal. It is that renewal which is at the core of our greatness as a nation. Denise Gelberg Ithaca, N.Y., May 27, 2007 To the Editor:
 Lawrence Downes doesn't address one important difference between the America of, say, 1900 and the America of 2007: the population of the United States in 1900 was around 76 million, while it is now more than 300 million. 
 America is no longer a sparsely populated country in need of more workers to exploit our abundant natural resources. We have all the population our resources can comfortably support, and then some.
 Immigration cannot solve our economic problems indefinitely. Someday Americans will have to learn to harvest our own food, paint our own houses, care for our own children and do our own landscaping, because it will be impossible to import others to do those things for us. 
 Why not now, while there is still room to breathe? Richard Hussong Groton, Mass., May 27, 2007 To the Editor:
 Re ''Wide Disparities Found in Judging of Asylum Cases'' (front page, May 31):
 The immigration judge is not necessarily the main factor in the outcome of an asylum case. The process can also depend on other elements, such as the competence of the lawyer for the asylum-seeker. 
 During the course of appeals I handled in the period studied by the research you describe, the transcripts were replete with serious lapses by the lawyers involved, so that clear winners became inevitable losers. 
 There were even instances where clients were actually hurt by their own lawyer.
 Clearly, true justice -- in the immigration court, as well as elsewhere -- results only when all parties, not just the judges, perform at their most competent level. Nicholas A. F. Arena New York, May 31, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Carl Wiens) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); DENATURALIZATION (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); AMNESTY (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



73 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Play; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 6399 words

HEADLINE: MY RIGHT ARM

BYLINE: By Buzz Bissinger. 
Buzz Bissinger is the author of the sports books ''Friday Night Lights'' and ''Three Nights in August,'' and a contributing editor at Vanity Fair. He lives in Philadelphia.

 BODY:
There are few things in sports more full of promise than a major-league clubhouse before a game, and on this second Monday in April -- the home opener for the Chicago Cubs in the frumpish glory that is forever Wrigley Field -- the Cubs' clubhouse is brimming with a hopefulness that seems positively staggering.
 The Cubs have failure and calamity sewn into the organization as tightly as the red stitching on a baseball. But for the home opener a certain level of irrational exuberance is tolerated, even encouraged. Loyalists are lining up outside the portals of Wrigley at 9:30 in the morning even though game time is 3 hours and 50 minutes away and they can't get in yet. The main concourse has been scrubbed clean of its persistent beery stench -- the one that so nicely captured the essence of going 99 years without winning a World Series. 
Inside the clubhouse, the Cubs have worked like mad to make the cliches of springtime rebirth into something real. The team has added new lockers, new carpeting, new players like Alfonso Soriano and Cliff Floyd and Jason Marquis and Ted Lilly and Mark DeRosa -- the products of a last-hurrah $300 million spending spree before the Tribune Company announced it would sell the club. There is also a new manager, Lou Piniella, a wise bird who has won a World Series and still smells conspiracy every time he comes near an umpire. The Cubs' blue-and-white uniform shirts, which have been set out by the staff with the circumspection of English butlers, flow from one locker to another. It is a striking tableau, and you have to look hard to find the single downbeat note -- the locker all the way at the end on the right-hand side that is largely taken up by three cardboard boxes.
 That locker belongs to Kerry Wood, the Cubs' 29-year-old right-handed pitcher. Masochism may be a regular condition of Cubs fandom, but even so, no player in the recent history of the team has broken more hearts than Wood. At age 20, he was a hulking, grim-faced fireballer who seemed poised to follow in the footsteps of his fellow Texans Nolan Ryan and Roger Clemens. Nine years later, Wood's career line reads like a gruesome forensics report -- torn labrum, torn rotator cuff, torn ulnar collateral ligament, every kind of arm ''soreness'' imaginable -- and nobody in the Cubs organization has any idea when, or if, he will return. ''It is tragic, in a way, to see a young man come from a small town in Texas,'' Piniella says, ''and work his way to the big leagues relatively quickly, and show that type of desire and competitiveness and skill to reach the top of your profession in a very short period,'' and then to have it end abruptly. Piniella watched the latest setback this spring when Wood, attempting yet another comeback, had to shut it down because the tendons in his shoulder suddenly felt like they were on fire. 
 In major-league front offices, Wood has become less a real ballplayer than a cautionary tale. Sure, there is the memory of that overcast day in Chicago in 1998 when he struck out 20 batters at the age of 20, a game that some stat-heads argue is the greatest performance ever turned in by a pitcher. There is the memory of the 2003 season in which Wood seemed to have put the first wave of injuries behind him and helped lead the Cubs to within five outs of the World Series. But over the past three seasons, as he has collected $32.5 million from the Cubs while mostly sitting on the disabled list, Wood's story has come to symbolize all the nightmarish possibilities for young pitchers -- how heralded prospects fall prey to the whims of their managers, how the efforts to protect their fragile arms from injury may actually put them in danger. Wood, once the ultimate can't-miss kid, now watches the new kids with their live fastballs and their wicked sliders and thinks to himself, It's just a matter of time. If you ask him what he uses his Cubs locker for now, he will tell you, ''It's turned into storage.''
 As the Cubs play the Milwaukee Brewers at the end of April, Kerry Wood is in Phoenix, finishing up his rehabilitation work at Fischer Sports Physical Therapy, in a nondescript building near the airport. Wood, who has a torn rotator cuff, has been exiled to the disabled list for the 11th time in his 10-year career. His previous trips to the D.L. have been buoyed by the hope that he might re-emerge as a starter, but this time his sights have been adjusted downward: he is hoping for the bullpen at best, and it will be an accomplishment if he makes it back to a major-league ballpark at all. Wood is here to try to relearn the craft of pitching. 
 Pennants of various professional sports franchises hang from the ceiling of the gym. The walls are adorned with more framed photos than the office of the most insecure politician, pictures of the dozens of athletes with whom Brett Fischer, a trainer, physical therapist and conditioning specialist, has worked over the years. The place has the enforced cheer of a counseling center, maybe because so many pro athletes have come here to regain some measure of a former glory that they once took for granted. 
 Wood settles into a black leather chair in a conference room and opens a bottle of water. He is 6-foot-5, and thanks to Fischer's grueling regimen of exercise, the walruslike body he once lugged around looks positively gaunt at 210 pounds. (Wood says he has lost 35 pounds.) He has a beard that is closely trimmed. His teeth are pearly white, which surprises me, maybe because he is from Texas and I have met few athletes from Texas over the age of 12 who do not dip tobacco and carry around a little Styrofoam spit cup like an appendage. Wood is seeing me because Jim Hendry, the Cubs' general manager, interceded on my behalf; he is looking at the floor, an athlete's telltale signal that he is only talking to you because somebody said he should.
 As it turns out, Wood is accessible and expansive; the onslaught of injuries has taught him to regard his condition with a certain deadpan honesty. ''I've been through this before,'' Wood says. ''I've been getting ready to break camp and break for the season, not a worry in the world about whether my shoulder was going to last or not, and then all of a sudden the next day I can't put my seatbelt on.'' If there was any happy news about his latest injury, it was that Wood does not require surgery (he has had three procedures since entering the majors) -- only the grind of more rehab in Phoenix to reduce severe tendinitis, which afflicts him because those muscles he has developed are simply unused to the act of throwing. But the bland happy-talk you get from so many athletes is gone, too, and it is Wood who raises the inevitable question: ''What keeps this from happening again?''
 Anyone who followed baseball in the 1990s remembers Wood's swagger. No pitcher in major-league history reached 1,000 strikeouts more quickly, either in games or innings pitched. He would go way inside to let the batter know who was in control, a tactic that had the benefit of expanding the outside of the plate into a thick wedge of porterhouse. He had a fastball once clocked at 102 miles per hour and a devastatingly hard curve/slurve that tumbled a foot in its journey to home plate; Astros first baseman Jeff Bagwell once said of the pitch, ''I got no chance.'' When in a foul mood, Wood occasionally let a ball drift near a batter's head at 96 or 97 m.p.h., a gesture that, in the euphemistic words of Cubs catcher Michael Barrett, made you feel ''uncomfortable.'' That was the healthy, cocksure Kerry Wood. Now he is a man in gym shorts fiddling with a bottle of water 1,800 miles from Wrigley Field.
 He considered quitting after the disappointment of spring training. But he says he decided otherwise in large part because of his 17-month-old son Justin, and the slight chance that his career will last long enough for Justin to get a taste of the big-league atmosphere. ''I want him to be around it,'' Wood says. ''I want him to be able to come into the clubhouse. I want to take him into the stadium and hit fly balls to him. I want him to be able to do that. I'm not going to be able to do that if I don't at least give it a shot.''
 Moreover, Wood is grappling with the question facing every athlete: If he quits now, will he always wonder whether he gave it his best shot? ''I don't want to look back on my career and say, 'You know what, I gave up when I was 29 or 30 years old.' . . . I'm not going to have hindsight when I'm done with this game. I've seen too many ex-players [who] can't do it when they're done, can't be away from the game.''
 Piniella says he has not given up on Wood, but considering Wood's fragile health, it is hard to know how much the Cubs really even want him. When he was healthy, Wood was universally heralded by Cubs beat writers as a great source for quotes, and by the other players as a fiercely loyal teammate. (Perhaps most endearing is that Wood remains the prime suspect in the unsolved mystery of Who Destroyed Sammy Sosa's Boom Box With a Bat, after Sosa walked out of the last game of the 2004 season.) But having him puttering around the clubhouse useless and discouraged was a drag on the Cubs' already-delicate team chemistry. ''Nothing is like a clubhouse when you're active,'' Wood says, adding that ''there's no worse place to be'' when you are not.
 Fischer has Wood exercising three to four hours every day. Today's workout consists largely of what Fischer describes as ''functional training,'' exercises that recreate what Wood does on the pitcher's mound with his hips and legs and shoulders, but with more flexibility and athleticism. He puts Wood through a series of balance exercises, to reduce his tendency to ''fly open'' -- that is, to rotate his front shoulder outward too early -- during his delivery. He puts him through a series of leg lunges to help develop lower-body strength (a key element of what made workhorses like Ryan and Clemens so durable). There are also exercises to strengthen the hamstrings, which will help reduce the stress on Wood's shoulder when his arm decelerates after he throws. Wood does upper-body weightlifting three days a week, but the goal is to build endurance and strength without turning into a professional bodybuilder. Too many pitchers are overmuscled in the chest, Fischer believes. He has seen Greg Maddux and Randy Johnson without their shirts on, and he tells me that while their physiques are not exactly inspirational, their durability is. 
 Fischer says Wood has a tremendous work ethic and believes the final chapter of his career has yet to be written. Wood's shoulder is pain-free now, and Fischer hopes that he might be back in a Cubs uniform by July.
 ''I feel like I've got many years left,'' Wood says, and I think he believes it. But a few moments later, his head is down again and his fingers are playing with the bottle of water. He is aware that any pitcher's arm -- and especially his arm -- basically hangs by a thread. 
 ''Maybe I'm lying to myself,'' he says.
 PITCHING A BASEBALL is, to put it mildly, a torturous and self-destructive act. Pitching is the fastest known motion in human biomechanics, the shoulder rotating at the rate of 7,200 degrees per second at its maximum, or the equivalent of 20 full revolutions per second. At the time of the ball's release, the forces acting on the shoulder are basically equivalent to the pitcher's body weight; they are akin to someone of similar size trying to yank his arm out of his shoulder socket. Right before release, the pitcher's elbow straightens at a rate of 2,000 degrees per second, or the equivalent of 5.5 full revolutions per second. As Glenn Fleisig, the research director of the American Sports Medicine Institute, told me, the elbow was never designed for that type of stress. In Wood's case, the risk of injury was only exacerbated by the way in which he learned to throw. He tended to throw across his body, which meant that he was relying almost exclusively on his arm instead of using his legs as a source of energy. 
 Wood's injuries may be more extreme than those of the average pitcher, but he is a symptom of a larger problem. For all the attention paid to the care and feeding of young pitchers these days, there are no indications that the number of injuries has been significantly reduced. As reported by the American Journal of Sports Medicine, 49 percent of the 349 players who spent time on the disabled list in 1998 were pitchers. According to Rick Wilton's Baseball Injury Report (probably the most comprehensive compendium of major-league baseball injuries publicly available), there were about the same number of players on the D.L. in 2006 -- 347 -- but the number of those who were pitchers had risen to 69 percent. To get an even better idea of how much time pitchers lose to injury, consider that 244 of the pitchers who played in the majors in 2006 have been on the disabled list at least once in the past five years. Their injury time adds up to 27,351 days, the equivalent of 149 lost seasons. 
 Although the act of pitching a baseball repeatedly is exceedingly stressful, doctors now generally accept that it is not the act itself that causes injury nearly so much as pitching while fatigued. A study by the American Sports Medicine Institute shows that pitchers between the ages of 16 and 20 who often throw with arm fatigue are 36 times more likely to be seriously injured than those who do not. In 20 years of research for the institute, Fleisig calls the fatigue factor ''the single strongest statistical finding'' he has ever encountered. Fatigue can cause a pitcher to overthrow and to alter his mechanics to compensate for the loss in power. This is why recovering from injuries is so precarious, because a pitcher often tries to find an arm slot in his delivery that doesn't hurt, which in turn leads to using joints and muscles in new and unfamiliar ways. And it's why pitching while hurt, which Wood has been doing throughout his career, may be the most devastating thing you can do. 
 The tried-and-true method of preventing young pitchers from throwing when they are fatigued has been to keep them on strict pitch counts in the minor leagues -- 100 pitches per game has become something of an industry standard. But there is an intriguing school of thought emerging that holds that one of the problems with today's young pitchers is that they do not throw enough in the minors before getting called up. As the thinking goes, pitch counts prevent young pitchers from learning to pitch while tired, to pace themselves during a game, to get out of jams without simply handing the ball to the bullpen. ''We condition [young pitchers] to develop pitches,'' says Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Famer who owns two of the Houston Astros' minor-league clubs. ''We condition them to pitch a certain number of innings. I don't know if we do a real good job of conditioning them to compete. Let them have a long inning and get out of it.'' Ryan says that when he pitched, he never wanted to put the game in anyone else's hands. ''When you talk about that, they look at you like you're from another planet.''
 Ferguson Jenkins, a Cubs Hall of Fame pitcher who spent only one month on the disabled list in his 19-year career, adds that young pitchers are too coddled. ''They don't let them pitch enough in the minors [so that] they know how to counteract all the different pressures they have in the major leagues.'' 
 Ryan and Jenkins's theory is supported by the experiences of still-active pitchers who started professionally in their late teens. The San Diego Padres' Greg Maddux threw for 491 1/3 innings before his first full season in the majors at 21. He has thrown for 200 innings or more in 18 seasons and possesses perhaps the single most impressive statistic in baseball history: he has been on the disabled list only once in his 22-year career. The New York Mets' Tom Glavine, also drafted out of high school, threw for 536 2 / 3 innings before his first full big-league season at 22, and is now in his 21st season. He has thrown 200 innings or more in 13 of them. 
 Maddux and Glavine are command-and-location pitchers, but such heralded fireballers as Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling also spent appreciable time in the minors learning their craft. Johnson pitched 418 1/3 innings before his first lengthy season in the majors when he was 25. Schilling pitched 701 2 / 3 innings before his first sustained call-up at 23. Together they have lasted 38 seasons. Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Boston Red Sox import from Japan, threw 588 innings before he was 21, following the Japanese custom of pitching lots of early-career innings.
 These apprenticeships reinforced a crucial aspect of a pitcher's mechanics, which is delivering the ball the same way every time. Significant minor-league experience also teaches young pitchers that what they are trying to perfect is a complex tango of command and location and changing speeds, not some personal duel with the radar gun. ''One of the things you learn over time is the art and value of pitching over throwing,'' says St. Louis Cardinals Manager Tony La Russa. It means throwing a fastball on a 2-and-1 count with a little less velocity to disrupt a hitter's timing, since he is expecting high heat. It means throwing well-located pitches early in the game, which can earn some quick outs and save the arm from wear and tear. ''These are lessons [you learn] with experience and the only place where you can learn that is the minor leagues,'' La Russa says. Instead, he believes, too many young pitchers, particularly those who have attracted media attention, come up to the majors too soon and feel an obligation to go full bore all the time. They are constantly reaching back for extra velocity, and if they are doing it as fatigue begins to set in, the possibility of their arms breaking down only multiplies. 
 The rule of thumb is that a pitcher should get some 400 innings of work in the minors before being called up. But with today's baseball economics, La Russa knows that has become an untenable luxury. Even the New York Yankees, who regularly chase pricey free agents, rushed 20-year-old prospect Philip Hughes to the majors this season -- after vowing not to -- when their rotation was decimated by injuries. In his second start, Hughes was carrying a no-hitter into the seventh inning when his hamstring went out. He was immediately put on the disabled list. Mike Pelfrey of the Mets came out of spring training as the team's fifth starter at the age of 23, with all of 96 1/3 innings of minor-league work under his belt. His low number of innings in the minors was offset to some degree by the innings he pitched in college at Wichita State, but regardless, he did not appear ready for the major leagues; after going 0-5 through mid-May, the Mets sent him back to the minors. The wunderkind Felix Hernandez of the Seattle Mariners, who wound up in the majors in 2005 when he was just 19, pitched a stunning one-hitter against the Red Sox this April, but shortly after was placed on the disabled list with a strained ligament in his elbow -- an injury that is particularly troubling because it can be a precursor to a torn ligament. Francisco Liriano, in his first full season with the Minnesota Twins in 2006, went 12 and 3 and seemed destined for greatness, but he will miss the entire 2007 season after undergoing ligament replacement surgery -- the so-called Tommy John procedure -- on his elbow last November. ''The economic push is to bring kids up, and it's unfortunate,'' La Russa says. 
 Perhaps no case illustrates this better than that of Mark Prior, a dazzling young pitcher from the University of Southern California whom the Cubs chose with the No. 2 pick in the 2001 draft. The Cubs' hope was that Prior would eventually give them another top-of-the-rotation ace alongside Wood. Prior threw for 138 innings at U.S.C. in 2001 but only 51 minor-league innings before being called up in 2002 at the age of 21. He finished 18-6 in 2003, but has since suffered from a series of mysterious ailments, many in his shoulder. He has been on the disabled list nine times; in April, Prior had surgery on his shoulder and is out for the rest of the season.
 Wood, who threw 281 1/3 innings in the minors, was kept on a strict pitch count every game, and he believes it was more hindrance than help. In the minors, 100 pitches can get you into the eighth inning or even the ninth because of the lesser talent of the competition. In the majors, the hitters are far better at working the counts and fouling off pitches with two strikes against them, and Wood discovered that 100 pitches might not even get you into the middle of the fifth. He believes that young pitchers tend to break down at the end of the season ''because they can't handle the load'' and have never been sufficiently pushed in the minors to learn to handle it. 
 Wood also discovered something else upon his transition to the majors: no matter what a pitcher has been told about proper mechanics, no matter how many times he has been told not to reach beyond his ability, he is going to resort to whatever it takes when he's in a jam. ''You're in the big leagues,'' he told me. ''You're on the mound, which by the way is a very lonely place with the bases loaded; you'll come up with anything. You will come out of your norm to try to do anything to get out of that.''
 As a lower-middle-class kid growing up in Irving, Tex., just outside of Dallas, with a father who worked for a check-printing company and a mother who was an insurance underwriter, Wood did what a lot of Texas kids do. He found an outlet in sports. He tried football for a while, but as a 5-foot-3-inch junior-high quarterback he couldn't see over the offensive line. So he stuck with baseball. He started at shortstop as a freshman at MacArthur High School, having grown to 5-foot-9. In between his freshman and sophomore years he shot up another six inches, and he began to consider his future as a pitcher. Unlike Mark Prior, who was groomed to be a pitcher in his youth and was tutored by the professional pitching coach Tom House, Wood was initially taught only by his father. He later began to imitate his idol Nolan Ryan, but there was not much technique to it -- just ''step back, lift your leg up and throw to the plate,'' he says. Still, if Wood lacked proper mechanics, he made up for it with sheer talent. For his senior year, when it became clear that he would be drafted by a major-league team, he transferred to Grand Prairie High School, for the sole reason that its coach was Mike McGilvray, who ran his program with the discipline of a major-league organization. 
 McGilvray is hardly a household name in baseball, but among Cubs fans he is spoken of in the same wrathful tones as those used for Billy Sianis's goat or Steve Bartman. From the Cubs' perspective, Wood was set on the path to being a permanent fixture on the disabled list when McGilvray misused him in a high-school doubleheader.
 Wood was a sensation in his senior year at Grand Prairie, going 14-0 with an e.r.a. of 0.84. On June 1, 1995, the Cubs made Wood the fourth pick overall in baseball's amateur draft. But for the moment, Wood was still a high-school pitcher under the tutelage of McGilvray. Two days after the draft, with Grand Prairie needing to sweep a doubleheader to get into the state tournament, McGilvray had Wood throw 146 pitches in the first game, then come back to start the second and throw 29 more pitches, for a mind-blowing total of 175 in a single day. Wood was the winning pitcher in both games, and actually won the second one with his bat when he hit a grand slam. 
 Ed Lynch, the general manager of the Cubs at the time, reportedly threw the phone across the room when he heard about the doubleheader. McGilvray told me he was fully aware of Wood's major-league potential and went out of his way to pamper him during the regular season. (The number of pitches Wood threw in a game usually ranged from 90 to 110.) ''Yes, I know it's a high pitch count,'' says McGilvray of the infamous doubleheader, but he says he talked to Wood and his father before making the decision and that it was the only time he extended him like that. Besides, McGilvray explains, ''He did it effortlessly.'' And despite the Cubs' objections, McGilvray correctly points out that it was not until four years later, when he was in the Cubs organization, that Wood began having significant arm problems. He says he thought the Cubs were being hypocritical and misleading by trying to blame him for Wood's problems.
 Wood's first manager in the majors, in 1998, was Jim Riggleman. He, too, had things on his mind other than Wood's health -- he had a record of 217-251 with the Cubs and had yet to make the playoffs. But Riggleman, who is now the field coordinator for player development for the Cardinals, is the only manager willing to admit that he might have had something do with Wood's injuries. 
 Though Wood had rocketed through the Cubs' organization, Riggleman says, he wanted to keep him in Class AAA for more seasoning. But 1998 was shaping up as a magical year for the downtrodden Cubs -- after two straight losing seasons, they had a playoff-worthy lineup led by Sammy Sosa, who would hit 66 home runs that season in a duel with Mark McGwire that would focus almost-daily attention on the team. Influential Cubs players were clamoring for Wood. So when a spot opened up in the rotation in April because of injury, the Cubs brought him up. Wood believed he was ready to handle the workload, but he now says he was carrying too much weight and had paid too little attention to his mechanics to prevent injury. But he was 20; and when you're 20, with a tremendous fastball and an even better curve, you don't think twice about heading off to the majors. As Wood told teammate Mark Grace one day, ''I'm gonna win 15 games and strike out the world.''
 He pitched passably in his first four starts. Then came the fifth, a day game against the Astros for which Wrigley Field was less than half full. Few argue with the assertion that it was the most dominating game ever pitched at Wrigley. Some say that it may have been the most dominating pitching performance in the history of baseball. The only Astros hit was an infield grounder by Ricky Gutierrez that bounced off the glove of Cubs third baseman Kevin Orie. Wood's fastball reached 100 m.p.h., but it was not the fastball that had the Astros shaking their heads: it was the curve, which broke sharply downward thanks to the tremendous torque Wood's arm supplied. The Cubs won, 2-0, and Wood's line read like this:
 IP H R ER BB SO HR BF Pit-Str
 9 1 0 0 0 20 0 29 122-84
 Wood, still virtually unknown to the casual fan, had just equaled Roger Clemens's single-game record for strikeouts. All of a sudden, he found himself mentioned alongside the heady company of hard-throwers like Clemens, Sandy Koufax, Juan Marichal and Bob Gibson. ''The expectations were ridiculous for someone at 20,'' Wood says. ''I had pitched five games. I had, like, 17 innings. It's tough when you punch out 20 guys in your fifth start and then everybody expects you to do that from here on out.''
 Riggleman says he actually contemplated lifting Wood from the game as his pitch count climbed beyond 100 pitches, but adds, ''If I had taken Kerry out of the game, they would have had to have security take me out of the ballgame.''
 Wood went 13-6 and struck out 233 batters that season and earned National League Rookie of the Year honors. But in August his elbow began to ache. The club shut him down for the rest of the regular season, then brought him back in the first round of the playoffs with the Cubs down two games to none to the Atlanta Braves. Wood threw five solid innings, but he now wonders why Riggleman even bothered bringing him back. ''What's the point? . . . We're down 2-0,'' he told me. The Cubs were swept anyway. 
 In his very first start in spring training the next season, Wood tore the ulnar collateral ligament in his elbow on a warm-up pitch before the second inning. It would require reconstructive surgery and make him the first pitcher since World War II to win 12 or more games as a rookie and then miss the entire next season. ''I think the wear and tear he put on his arm the previous year had something to do with what happened to his elbow,'' Riggleman says. But for a manager whose job was on the line (he was fired the following season, after the Cubs finished 67-95), using a high-strikeout pitcher who could work deep into the game was an essential form of self-preservation. 
 ''I have some reservations,'' Riggleman says now. ''I wish I would have done some things differently. I'm sure I was caught up in trying to get to the playoffs.'' In hindsight, he says, he would have taken Wood out of some games earlier than he did because of his pitch count, which topped 120 pitches or more eight times in 1998, including a high of 133 in a game at the end of August. Riggleman says he sighed with relief whenever Wood left a game, and eventually he told Wood to stop throwing the hard curve/slurve -- a combination of curveball and slider -- he had used against the Astros because of the damage it might do to his arm. (Wood ultimately abandoned the pitch.) 
 Riggleman also notes that the Cubs' medical reports showed that Wood's ligament was thin to begin with, making it likely to blow at some point anyway. Then there was the issue of his mechanics. Throwing across your body as a pitcher is good in terms of creating deception, because the ball is harder for the batters to pick up, but it puts terrible stress on the elbow and shoulder. Wood himself does not remember any Cubs coaches telling him to alter his mechanics, and even if they did, he says he probably would have ignored them. ''Who's gonna say anything to you?'' he says. ''Who is gonna say, 'Oh, you're throwing twelve inches across your body.' No one's gonna tell you that, because you're having success and you're not gonna listen anyway. . . . You don't think about that stuff. You're young.''
 Kerry wood began the 2000 season on the disabled list, still recovering from surgery, and didn't pitch his first major-league game until the beginning of May. In the summer, he went back on the D.L. for 22 days because of a strain in his left oblique muscle. He pitched only 137 innings all season. But the next three years were largely pain-free. His run of good health culminated in a wonderful 2003 season, the best of Wood's career, in which he won 14 games and led the majors with 266 strikeouts. In September, as the Cubs advanced toward a Central Division title under their new manager, Dusty Baker, Wood was 3-1 with an e.r.a. of 1.00. (He also won two games in the playoffs.) His pitch counts were high, an average of 111 per start, second in the majors only to the Cubs' new phenom, the equally overworked Mark Prior. 
 Like Riggleman before him, Baker has come under withering criticism for using both Wood and Prior so much that he risked destroying their careers. He protests when I bring it up with him. ''What is overuse?'' he says. ''There didn't used to be such a word but now it's widely used. . . . You got to blame somebody, and I got blamed for everything.''
 Baker says that when he came to the Cubs in 2003, he saw photographs of Wood's mechanics and expressed concern about further injury to members of the organization. But nothing happened, hesays. 
 Baker had been given a $15 million contract, with expectations that he would lead the Cubs to the playoffs. Wood and Prior were his two best weapons, and sometimes, Baker tells me, ''You got to overextend if you're going to try to win it.'' There was another factor: it often wasn't until the fifth inning, when Wood was nearing 100 pitches, that he seemed to find his rhythm. Baker's bullpen was not very good, so he kept Wood in the game no matter what the pitch count. ''You manage the team that you have,'' Baker says. ''You stay with your starters longer.'' (Baker was fired after the 2006 season.) 
 As usual, Wood blames himself and exonerates Baker. He says he was out of shape and that it took a toll toward the end of the season. ''You just get tired,'' he says. ''You start jumping. You start lunging. You're taking every bit of energy from your toes to your head to get the ball to the plate. And you get out of whack. You start winging it -- or I did, anyway. You can't deliver the ball to the plate the same way if you aren't in shape.'' 
 Kerry Wood was 26 years old after the 2003 season, and he had the look of a starter coming into his prime. That meant money, loads of it -- and the Cubs, who had constructed a World Series-ready rotation of Wood, Prior, Carlos Zambrano and Greg Maddux, ponied up a three-year, $32.5 million contract. And yet the specter of the previous injuries haunted Wood. Way back in 1998, writing in ''Sports Illustrated,'' Keith Olbermann had cautioned that ''so many strikeouts at such a tender age have usually doomed a pitcher,'' and said of Wood: ''Sell his baseball cards. Now.'' 
 Steve Stone, a former Cy Young Award winner who was then the Cubs' color analyst on WGN-TV, felt that Wood's faulty mechanics would lead to further disaster. Stone says he had a private conversation with team president Andy MacPhail in 2000 in which he predicted the following: ''He's going to have at least one or possibly two more surgeries. They will be in the shoulder. The elbow will probably hold up. He's going to break your heart on almost a yearly basis. He will never win as many games as you think he should, and he will consistently break down to the point where you will give him an extraordinary amount of money for very few active days.'' (MacPhail does not recall the conversation with Stone.)
 Stone was off by a few seasons, but his prediction proved accurate. The 2004 season marked the beginning of Wood's tenure as a permanent fixture on the disabled list. He would work only 140 1/3 innings in 2004, spending two months on the D.L. with a strained triceps. In 2005, he sat out roughly three months because of shoulder problems and underwent arthroscopic surgery in which his labrum -- a thin piece of tissue that goes around the rim of the socket, which had partially detached -- was reattached. Labrum surgery is considered highly risky for a pitcher who wants to come back, but Wood, after having spent much of the month of August working out of the bullpen for the first time in his life, elected to have it. He still wanted to be a starter but could not throw more than 55 pitches without his shoulder giving out on him. In hindsight, it seems clear that Wood was trying to be the kind of pitcher he could no longer be.
 When he returned in 2006, his shoulder still did not feel right. At first, he just thought it was scar tissue from the surgery, and he tried to find a pitching angle for his arm that didn't hurt. But he felt pain on every pitch he threw and pain in between every pitch he threw. His velocity fell into the high 80s. He might actually feel decent until the third or fourth inning, but then would fight to get to the sixth or seventh. When he went to the bench between innings in one game, he could not pick up a water bottle. After another, he couldn't lift his arm to apply hair gel. ''I wasn't going out to pitch to win,'' he says. ''I was just trying to save the bullpen for the other guys.'' He started four games in 2006 before landing on the disabled list on June 7th, with what was ultimately discovered to be a torn rotator cuff that had apparently not been diagnosed at the time of the labrum surgery. And that was the last time he pitched during the regular season.
 Is there someone to blame for what happened to Kerry Wood? As in ''Murder on the Orient Express,'' everybody took a turn with the dagger. A high-school kid never should have thrown 175 pitches in a single day. Jim Riggleman never should have let him exceed 120 pitches eight times as a rookie, or brought him back for that one game in the 2003 playoffs. Dusty Baker, who allowed Wood to exceed 100 pitches 24 times in 2003, should have taken greater note of his injury history. Wood should have kept himself in better shape and paid more attention to his mechanics. But whether we like it or not, professional athletes are meant to be sacrificed, not preserved. And the most fatal dagger-thrust of all has been fate's. Wood threw the way he did because that was the way he had learned how to pitch. And he continued to throw that way because for a brief moment it made him the most exciting pitcher in baseball. 
 In return for the Cubs' investment in him (his $32.5 million contract for the last three seasons works out to $691,489 per game), Wood has given the team his loyalty. Instead of testing the free-agent market, where he likely could have gotten a one-year contract of $5 million, he re-signed with the Cubs for $1.75 million. His career, if it ends here, will add up to a mishmash of memories. He carries with him the 20-strikeout game against the Astros -- not just the accomplishment but also the sheer fun of it, like a game of ''burnout'' with his brother in his backyard in Irving, when the goal was to snap the ball off as hard as you could. He carries with him the July day in 2003 when the Cubs were playing the Marlins in Florida, and it was sweltering on the field, and before the game he wasn't sure he would survive five innings; but he became so locked-in that he couldn't even hear the crowd noise, and everything seemed easy and perfect, and before he knew it he was into the ninth on the way to a two-hit win in which he threw 130 pitches. But most of all, perhaps, he carries the advice he received from his first pitching coach in professional baseball, Oscar Acosta, who died this April at the age of 49 in a traffic accident in the Dominican Republic.
 ''The game doesn't build character; it reveals it,'' Acosta told him, and as Kerry Wood moves from being the 20-year-old pitcher with the live fastball to the 29-year-old with an arm that may have finally surrendered -- or maybe, maybe, still has some few ounces of beauty left in it -- he thinks, more than ever before, about what Oscar Acosta said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: HEADED FOR THE D.L. -- Again Wood pitching in a spring-training game in March. He was sidelined by shoulder pain and is working toward a return. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN DUNN/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. 55)
A KID WITH NO WORRIES -- Wood as a high-school star in Texas. His tendency to rely mostly on arm strength, however,portended future shoulder and elbow ailments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDY WALGREN/DALLAS MORNING NEWS)(pg. 56)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRA PETLIN)(pg. 52) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); FORENSICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (85%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



74 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: BLUEPRINTS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Medical Offices Designed for This Century

BYLINE: By CLAIRE WILSON

 BODY:
THE new headquarters of the Westchester Medical Group in Rye, N.Y., is a lot like a high-tech yacht. It is compact and streamlined, and every function and tool has a clearly defined place. Space is used as economically as possible, and what isn't absolutely necessary has been eliminated -- even paper files and X-rays, which are now fully computerized. When possible, e-mail messages are substituted for intraoffice phone calls to cut down on distracting nonurgent communication and noise. 
 According to Andrew Fredman, the Manhattan architect who designed the space, suites of offices and examination rooms are arranged by medical specialty and are situated near related services. Radiology is close to orthopedics and urgent care, for example, and ultrasound is near the obstetrics/gynecology department. All test results are now transmitted via e-mail. 
 ''The design is predicated on the notion that doctors are best at doing their medical work,'' said Mr. Fredman, who operates Andrew Fredman Architects, based in Manhattan. ''It is a well-run machine.'' 
 The headquarters of the Westchester Medical Group -- opening officially on June 14 -- has about 60,000 square feet of space in a two-story building that was renovated at a cost of about $6 million. The building is on a grassy knoll a few minutes' drive from the Rye town center, about a half-hour by train from Midtown Manhattan. It had most recently been the corporate offices of Lillian Vernon, the catalog retailer. 
 The building was vacant for nearly two years before a consortium of investors, including some doctors from the Westchester Medical Group, bought the property, according to Dr. Simeon A. Schwartz, the group president, and Dr. Barney Newman, the medical director. 
 The space was gutted and designed to accommodate patients and medical staff from six offices around the county that are being consolidated at the new location. Six other offices of the Westchester Medical Group remain in the area, including an 87,000-square-foot site in White Plains. The Rye building will have more than 50 doctors and 100 other employees when the consolidation is completed over the next few months. 
 Patients enter the building through a two-story, sun-washed post-modern-style atrium that is lined with alternating strips of light and dark cherry paneling. A staircase with black handrails sweeps up at the center of the structure, which is shaped like a scalene triangle, with each side a different length. 
 The building's lack of right angles could have posed a design problem, but proved to be an advantage to the architect, who divided the space into almost 200 rooms, some of them smaller than 100 square feet. The total also includes 50 bathrooms. 
 ''The geometry and few right angles allowed me to create different, unique spaces,'' said Mr. Fredman, whose firm has done commercial and residential work, including the conversion of a building once used by a Brooklyn police precinct into residential housing. 
 Each of the four hallways that extends from the central staircase has the look of a Main Street, with portals that look like storefronts in two shades of cherry wood. Earth tones dominate the decor, which includes seven types of carpet tiles, black granite countertops on cherry-wood reception desks and patterned armchairs for each waiting room. 
 The pediatric suite has low-maintenance, specially coated wood floors instead of carpet in a child-oriented waiting area; bright aqua and white tiles are placed in a hopscotch pattern in the area where exams take place. 
 Each specialty area -- from primary care to radiology to outpatient oncology treatment -- has its own shoplike portal with a separate waiting area, behind which are the examination rooms. 
 An urgent-care center that can treat 50 patients a day will also open, along with a conference room in one corner of the main floor that will be used for teaching and lectures as well as staff meetings. Also incorporated into the layout are an optician shop, adjacent to the eye-care suite on the second floor, and a branch of a local drugstore, the Rye Beach Pharmacy, which will open on the main floor. 
 The design strategy is built around the patient care areas. Each of these is a warren of small rooms and hallways; doctors' consulting rooms are paired with examination rooms. Each cluster has its own bathroom. A medical assistant sits at a station in the corridor within view and earshot of each room in the pod. 
 The computerization of the facility allows it to be so compact. All patient information is on electronic files, to which only doctors and auxiliary medical personnel have access. Those files come up as soon as the patient checks in, which is accomplished by swiping a credit card at a terminal at the reception area.
 In the treatment rooms, doctors view the charts on mobile computer units called C.O.W.'s, for computers on wheels. Information like blood-pressure readings, which are now taken with computerized equipment, are automatically entered into the chart. 
 All tests are ordered via e-mail. Prescriptions are issued by computer and sent directly to any pharmacy equipped to fill them that way. X-rays are likewise computerized and, therefore, there is no need for films. Images from sonograms, mammograms or X-rays appear on the computer screen of the radiologist or technician within seconds of being shot, according to Dr. Schwartz. 
 ''You have a written report within 15 minutes,'' he said. 
 More time is saved by placing services adjacent to the specialties that require them. 
 But gone are the huge clusters of file cabinets so ubiquitous in doctors' offices. ''The average office visit is about 15 minutes, so if there is no paperwork to do in the exam room, the patient gets the full 15 minutes,'' Dr. Newman said. 
 ACCORDING to Dr. Schwartz, the savings on support personnel is also substantial. Where there are generally five employees per doctor in a practice, the Westchester Medical Group as a whole has around three per doctor. 
 In designing the space, Mr. Fredman wanted to maximize the natural light that floods in from skylights along the top floor. He also chose a traditional look as a foil to the high-tech infrastructure whirring behind the scenes to produce something that is comfortable and nonclinical in feel. 
 But choosing carpet and chairs were only part of the challenge. ''The fun part of the design was to shoe-horn all their needs into the building and make it so attractive,'' Mr. Fredman said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Fredman, above left, designed the interior of the new headquarters for the Westchester Medical Group to be compact and streamlined, with medical specialties situated near related services. The building's entryway is a two-story post-modern-style atrium, at left and above, that is lined with strips of light and dark cherry paneling. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



75 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front ; THE J.F.K. AIRPORT CASE; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: 4 Men Accused of Plot to Blow Up Kennedy Airport Terminals and Fuel Lines

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Reporting was contributed by Ann Farmer, Manny Fernandez, Kate Hammer, Marc Lacey, Angela Macropoulos, Patrick McGeehan, Ray Rivera, Simon Romero and Nate Schweber.

 BODY:
Four men, including a onetime airport cargo handler and a former member of the Parliament of Guyana, were charged yesterday with plotting to blow up fuel tanks, terminal buildings and the web of fuel lines running beneath Kennedy International Airport. 
 One of the suspects was taken into custody in Brooklyn and two others were detained in Trinidad, the authorities said, while the fourth man was still at large.
One defendant, the former cargo handler, Russell Defreitas, was arraigned yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn. He is a 63-year-old Guyanese native and naturalized American citizen who lives in Brooklyn.
 Mark J. Mershon, the assistant director in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation field office in New York, said all four men had ''fundamentalist Islamic beliefs of a violent nature,'' although they appeared to be acting on their own and had no known connection to Al Qaeda. 
 Law enforcement officials said that Kennedy, which handles roughly 45 million passengers a year and 1,000 flights a day, was never in imminent danger because the plot was only in a preliminary phase and the conspirators had yet to lay out detailed plans or obtain financing or explosives. 
 The airport is fed jet fuel, gasoline and heating oil through a capillary system of pipes that run from New Jersey through Staten Island, Brooklyn and Queens. Oil industry experts said safety shut-off valves would almost assuredly have prevented an exploding airport fuel tank from igniting all or even part of the network.
 But officials said the four men determined to carry out their attack, having conducted ''precise and extensive'' surveillance of the airport using photographs, video, the recollections of Mr. Defreitas and satellite images downloaded from Google Earth. 
 They said the men had also traveled repeatedly to Guyana and Trinidad in recent months, seeking the blessing and financial backing of an extremist Muslim group based in Trinidad and Tobago called Jamaat al-Muslimeen, which was behind a bloody coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990.
 ''The enforcement action we are announcing today was taken to prevent a terrorist plot from maturing into a terrorist act,'' Mr. Mershon said during a news conference yesterday at F.B.I. headquarters in Manhattan. The motive behind the planned attack, he said, ''was a pattern of hatred toward the United States and the West in general.''
 Mr. Defreitas was arrested Friday night at a restaurant in Brooklyn, the Lindenwood Diner. A federal magistrate judge ordered him detained at his arraignment yesterday, pending a bail hearing on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Defreitas walked slowly into the courtroom, his face drawn, wearing a greenish-brown knee-length tunic and loose pants. His court-appointed lawyer, Drew Carter, told Magistrate Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto: 
 ''There's a lot more to the story. I don't want to get into this now, because it's not a trial.''
 One law enforcement official played down Mr. Defreitas's ability to carry out an attack, calling him ''a sad sack'' and ''not a Grade A terrorist.'' Comparing the case with the plot in which a group of men were arrested last month on charges of planning to attack soldiers at Fort Dix in New Jersey, the official said the New Jersey plotters ''were a bit further along.''
 But the official said that Mr. Defreitas's efforts to enlist Jamaat al-Muslimeen's aid could have had devastating consequences.
 ''They didn't have the money and they didn't have the bombs,'' the official said of the suspects, ''but if we let it go it could have gotten there; they could have gotten the J.A.M. fully involved, and we wouldn't know where it could have gone.'' 
 The official declined to be identified because he was not authorized to comment on the case. 
 Abdul Kadir, 55, a former mayor of a town in Guyana and a onetime member of Parliament in that South American country, was arrested in Trinidad on Friday. He helped Mr. Defreitas complete the plan and secure financing, according to the criminal complaint, which was unsealed yesterday. 
 Mr. Kadir was detained after boarding a flight on Aeropostal, a Venezuelan airline, which was to go to Caracas, an official briefed on the arrest said yesterday. The flight between Port of Spain and Caracas, which usually takes less than an hour, had taken off but the crew was told to return to Trinidad, the official said. 
 The third suspect, Kareem Ibrahim, 61, was arrested in Trinidad. The extradition of both Mr. Kadir and Mr. Ibrahim was being sought. 
 The fourth suspect, Abdel Nur, 57, remained a fugitive, the officials said, and was believed to be in Trinidad. 
 If convicted, all four suspects could face life in prison.
 The charges were announced by Mr. Mershon; the city's police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly; Roslynn R. Mauskopf, the United States attorney in Brooklyn; and other officials.
 According to the criminal complaint, which was sworn out by Robert Addonizio, an investigator with the Brooklyn district attorney's office assigned to the Joint Terrorism Task Force, the authorities became aware of the plot in January 2006; officials would not say how.
 An informant with a criminal history including drug trafficking and racketeering agreed to work with investigators on the case, in exchange for payments and a reduced sentence. 
 Last July, the informant, whose name was not released, befriended Mr. Defreitas, officials said. Mr. Defreitas said he recognized the informant from attending services at a Brooklyn mosque, took him into his confidence and slowly disclosed his plan to attack Kennedy, according to the complaint.
 Though Mr. Defreitas had lived in Brooklyn and Queens, he told the informant that his resentment of the United States hardened into hatred during his years as a cargo worker at the airport.
 ''He saw military parts being shipped to Israel, including missiles, that would be used to kill Muslims,'' the complaint read. Mr. Defreitas, who was secretly recorded by the informant, complained bitterly that he ''wanted to do something'' and that ''Muslims always incur the wrath of the world while Jews get a pass.''
 Mr. Defreitas envisioned ''the destruction of the whole of Kennedy'' and theorized that because of underground pipes, ''part of Queens would explode.'' He boasted that in addition to a huge of loss of life -- ''even the twin towers can't touch it,'' he said -- the attack would devastate the United States economy and strike a deep symbolic blow against a national icon, President John F. Kennedy, officials said.
 ''Any time you hit Kennedy, it is the most hurtful thing to the United States,'' he said in one of dozens of conversations secretly recorded during the 18-month investigation, according to the complaint. 
 ''They love John F. Kennedy,'' he said. ''If you hit that, this whole country will be in mourning. It's like you kill the man twice.''
 Mr. Defreitas worked as a contractor at the airport from 1990 to 1993, said officials with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the airport. Commissioner Kelly said he stopped working at the airport in 1995. The reason for the discrepancy was not clear. 
 In any event, the informant accompanied Mr. Defreitas on a series of trips between New York and Guyana, where the pair met with a number of co-conspirators, the authorities said. The group created code words like the ''Chicken Farm'' and ''Chicken Hatchery'' to refer to the plot. 
 As described in 33-page complaint, Mr. Defreitas seemed enraptured by the plot. He believed the informant had been ''sent by Allah to be the one'' and fantasized about the paradise that would await them after their martyrdom.
 Mr. Defreitas was intent on meeting leaders of Jamaat al-Muslimeen to finance the plot, and another co-conspirator, Mr. Nur, agreed to help arrange the meeting. The group gained notoriety for the failed coup attempt, in which 24 people died, but today, officials said, it is known more as a street gang involved in drug trafficking. Authorities in the United States and Trinidad have closely watched the group's activities since the Sept. 11 attacks, but in the United States it is not designated as a foreign terrorist organization. 
 A representative of Jamaat al-Muslimeen, who declined to be identified, said in a telephone interview from Port of Spain that the group would have no immediate comment on the allegations.
 In January of this year, Mr. Defreitas was back in New York, and over the period of a week he and the informant visited Kennedy Airport four times -- all the while being recorded, videotaped and followed by law enforcement authorities. 
 Mr. Defreitas pointed out fuel tanks on airport property, nearby gas stations, possible sites of lax security as well as possible escape routes, the authorities said. 
 Using video he shot at Kennedy, which he hoped would secure funds for the plot, Mr. Defreitas returned to Guyana in February and began meeting again with co-conspirators, including Mr. Kadir, who, along with being a former elected official, is an imam. 
 Mr. Defreitas and the informant traveled to Trinidad on May 20 and stayed for two days with Mr. Ibrahim; then, all three men met with Mr. Nur in a compound owned by a leader from Jamaat al-Muslimeen, the authorities said. That group was interested in the plot but first wanted to learn more about Mr. Defreitas and the informant. Mr. Ibrahim was worried about presenting the plan to the group, and advised Mr. Defreitas to present it instead to contacts overseas.
 Mr. Defreitas agreed, and he and the source returned to New York on May 26. 
 Less than a week later, believing they had enough evidence for a successful prosecution, the authorities picked him up.
 One friend of Mr. Defreitas's expressed shock at word that he had been arrested in a plot to attack Kennedy Airport. The friend, Trevor Watts, 65, described Mr. Defreitas as not dangerous.
 ''He's not that type of person,'' Mr. Watts said after learning of Mr. Defreitas's arrest. ''He's not smart enough.''
 Mr. Watts said he first met Mr. Defreitas years ago, when both men lived on Albany Avenue in Brooklyn. Mr. Defreitas was working at Kennedy Airport at the time. His brother helped him land the job there, filling out his job application for him because Mr. Defreitas had trouble reading, Mr. Watts said.
 Mr. Defreitas had been divorced and lost touch with his two children, Mr. Watts said. After leaving his Albany Avenue apartment, he moved from place to place and was homeless for a time, his friend said.
 He also lived alone for several years in an apartment on North Conduit Avenue, near the airport. The daughter of his landlord described him yesterday as a ''polite man'' who always paid his rent on time. When he finally ended up leaving, he told the landlord that the weather was rough on his health and the cold was tough on his arthritis, the daughter said.
 Mr. Defreitas was always thinking of ways to make money, Mr. Watts said. He had been in a car accident, and he spoke to Mr. Watts about his hopes of getting rich by winning a lawsuit. He sold books on a street corner in Queens and would ask his friends to give him their broken air-conditioners and refrigerators. He shipped the items to his girlfriend's sister in Guyana so she could repair and sell them, Mr. Watts said.
 After coming home from a series of trips to Guyana, Mr. Defreitas started dressing in traditional Muslim clothes and referred to himself as Mohammed, said Mr. Watts, an auto mechanic.
 Mr. Watts said Mr. Defreitas appeared to have adopted his fundamentalist beliefs only in recent years. He had previously embraced American culture, Mr. Watts said, and liked a particularly American brand of music, jazz, especially the saxophone. 
 In recent years, he lived in an apartment in a four-story building on Rockaway Avenue in Brooklyn, on a run-down block full of graffiti. Agents from the F.B.I.'s Joint Terrorism Task Force arrested Mr. Defreitas at the diner, on Linden Boulevard, about 10 p.m. on Friday. 
 ''When he was picked up last night, he was playing the guessing game about who the informant was,'' a law enforcement official said yesterday. ''He was cooperative at first, but he was not providing any information that we did not know.'' 
 When confronted by the authorities with information about the plot, however, Mr. Defreitas denied any involvement, the official said.
 Though the New York area has been the subject of several terrorist plots, Commissioner Kelly said this one was different because it was largely developed in the Caribbean. 
 ''This is an area in which we have growing concern and I think requires a lot more focus,'' Mr. Kelly said, echoing a concern law enforcement officials have reiterated in recent years.
 According to The Trinidad Guardian newspaper, Guyana's president, Bharath Jagdeo, said yesterday that he was unaware of the details of the arrests but that on Friday, the United States ambassador, Roy Austin, requested a meeting with him. He said he learned from Mr. Austin that Guyanese nationals were involved ''in some plot at the J.F.K.,'' but he said there was no Guyanese connection to the overall plot. He noted that Mr. Kadir was not a government official but was, until about two years ago, a member of parliament from the opposition party.
 Asked whether he believed that West Indians traveling to the United States would be subject to greater scrutiny, Mr. Jagdeo said, ''I hope there is no paranoia.'' 
 ''It's not as if it's a trend,'' he was quoted as saying. ''We are hoping there is no adverse reaction.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A timeline in some copies on Sunday about the events leading up to charges against four men in what the authorities said was a plot to blow up terminals and fuel lines at Kennedy International Airport misspelled the given name of one suspect in some copies. He is Russell Defreitas, not Russel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark J. Mershon, gesturing, head of the F.B.I. field office in New York, with other officials at a news conference in Manhattan yesterday. (Photo by Oscar Hidalgo/The New York Times)
Abdul Kadir was aboard a flight that was called back to Trinidad. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 40) Chart: ''An International Timeline'' Here are selected events in what the authorities describe as a plot that led to charges yesterday against four men: Russell Defreitas, a United States citizen
Abdul Kadir and Abdel Nur, citizens of Guyana
 and Kareem Ibrahim, a citizen of Trinidad and Tobago. 2006 July 13 -- A confidential source working with the Joint Terrorism Task Force first meets Mr. Defreitas. Aug. 1 -- Mr. Defreitas first tells the source he has a vision that would make the World Trade Center attack seem small. Oct. 10 -- The source first learns that the plan involves exploding the network of fuel lines that feed Kennedy International Airport. 2007 Early January -- Mr. Defreitas and the source conduct surveillance of the airport on four occasions, videotaping fuel tanks as possible targets and scouting escape routes. Feb. 19 -- Mr. Defreitas and the source travel to Guyana to meet Mr. Kadir and show him the videotapes of Kennedy Airport. They express interest in involving a Trinidadian Muslim group, Jamaat al-Muslimeen. Mr. Kadir says Mr. Nur can introduce them to the leader of the group. Feb. 28 -- On his return to J.F.K., Mr. Defreitas and his belongings are searched by customs agents. Mr. Defreitas becomes suspicious that the government knows about the plan. May 10 -- Mr. Defreitas and the source travel to Guyana for planning meetings and aim to travel on to Trinidad to meet with the leader of Jamaat al-Muslimeen. May 20 -- Mr. Defreitas and the source travel to Trinidad, with Mr. Nur following on a different flight. Mr. Defreitas and the source stay with Mr. Ibrahim. May 22 -- The suspects travel to a Jamaat al-Muslimeen compound, and Mr. Nur informs them that he has met with the leader of Jamaat al-Muslimeen. May 23 -- At a detailed strategy meeting in Trinidad. Mr. Defreitas says of the planned strike, ''even the twin towers can't touch it.'' May 26 -- Mr. Defreitas and the source return to the United States. June 2 -- Mr. Defreitas, Mr. Kadir and Mr. Ibrahim are in custody. Mr. Nur remains at large. Map of South America highlighting Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana. (Source by Criminal complaint)(pg. 40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COUPS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (74%); JET FUEL (73%); BAIL (72%); HEATING OIL (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (97%); GUYANA (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



76 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2259 words

HEADLINE: A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target

BYLINE: By ANDREW PARK

 BODY:
LAST February, Jim Zumbo, a burly, 66-year-old outdoors writer, got a phone call at his home near Cody, Wyo., from the rock star -- and outspoken Second Amendment champion -- Ted Nugent. ''You messed up, man,'' Mr. Zumbo says Mr. Nugent told him. ''Big time.''
 Two days earlier, Mr. Zumbo, a leading hunting journalist, outraged Mr. Nugent and many other gun owners when he suggested in a blog post that increasingly popular semiautomatic guns known as ''black rifles'' be banned from hunting. Mr. Zumbo, stunned that hunters were using the rifles for sport, also suggested giving the guns, prized for their matte black metal finishes, molded plastic parts and combat-ready looks, a new name: ''terrorist rifles.''
Gun enthusiasts' backlash against Mr. Zumbo was swift. He parted company with his employer, Outdoor Life magazine. Mr. Zumbo says on his Web site that he was ''terminated''; the magazine says that it and Mr. Zumbo agreed that he would resign. 
 But a week after hearing from Mr. Nugent, who has a devoted following among gun owners, Mr. Zumbo visited him in Waco, Tex., to make amends. For his part, Mr. Nugent was prepared to give Mr. Zumbo a lesson on the utility and ubiquity of black rifles. 
 ''These guns are everywhere,'' Mr. Nugent explained excitedly in a recent phone interview. ''I personally don't know anybody who doesn't have two in his truck.''
 Despite their menacing appearance -- and in some cases, because of it -- black rifles are now the guns of choice for many hunters, target shooters and would-be home defenders. Owners praise their accuracy, ease of use and versatility, as well as their potential to be customized with an array of gadgets. While the gun industry's overall sales have plateaued and its profits have faded over the last decade, black rifles are selling briskly, says Eric Wold, an analyst in New York for Merriman Curhan Ford. 
 Moreover, manufacturers say, for every dollar spent on black rifles, gun buyers spend at least another customizing the guns from an arsenal of accessories. All of this has combined to make black rifles a lone bright spot for long-suffering American gunsmiths.
 Yet Mr. Zumbo is not alone in finding the popularity of black rifles and the trade in them to be disquieting. 
 Gun-control advocates say black rifles are simply assault weapons under a different name -- and just as dangerous as they were when Congress instituted a ban on some of them in 1994. The ban did not eliminate black rifles; manufacturers were able to make minor changes to comply with the law and kept selling them. (The ban expired in 2004.) 
 ''What you have are guns essentially designed for close combat,'' says Dennis Hennigan, legal director of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence in Washington, who notes that a Beretta black rifle was among the weapons obtained by men suspected of plotting a terrorist attack on Fort Dix, N.J. ''If your mission is to kill a lot of people very quickly, they're very well suited for that task.''
 But efforts to ban black rifles seem to have only fueled their rise, analysts say. And while some major gun makers were reluctant to defy the spirit of the 1994 ban, dozens of small companies emerged, and their sales surged. (It didn't hurt that many gun owners feared greater restrictions down the road, a fear that manufacturers were more than willing to exploit.) 
 ''Whenever there's a push like this, business increases as people buy a firearm while they can,'' says Mark Westrom, president of ArmaLite Inc., a maker of black rifles in Geneseo, Ill. ''If you want to sell something to Americans, just tell them they can't have it.''
 EVEN as politicians debate increased gun regulation in the wake of the mass shooting at Virginia Tech in April, gun control advocates say they are pessimistic about the chances of reining in black rifles. Illinois legislators who were trying to pass a statewide assault-weapons ban this spring ran into fierce opposition from Mr. Westrom and several other makers of semiautomatics who argued that the proposed law would cost the state jobs and hurt the economy. (The measure is still under consideration.)
 The most popular black rifle has been in production since the early 1960s. In response to the Army's need for a lightweight infantry rifle, ArmaLite had developed the AR-15, which could switch between semiautomatic (only one round per pull of the trigger) and fully automatic firing (continuous firing when the trigger is pulled). The Colt Firearms Company bought the rights to the gun and the military soon adopted it, calling it the M-16. From Vietnam through the Persian Gulf war, the M-16 was the most common combat weapon, and it remains in use by many American forces.
 Because of restrictions on the sale of automatic weapons, civilians could buy the AR-15 only in a semiautomatic version. But in the 1980s, Colt drew unwanted attention when it was discovered that the gun, which had begun showing up in the arsenals of drug dealers, mobsters and antigovernment militias, could be easily converted to an automatic. 
 Colt redesigned the weapon to make converting it much more difficult, but when Congress passed the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, the AR-15 was banned alongside the AK-47, the TEC-9 and 16 other semiautomatic weapons. The act also prohibited semiautomatics that could accept detachable magazines from having more than one of five generic features that were believed to increase the likelihood that the gun would be used in a crime. The National Rifle Association lobbied hard against the bill, but many hunters agreed with the premise that assault weapons were of little use in their sport. 
 ''These killing machines are the weapon of choice of drug traffickers, violent youth gangs and the seriously deranged bent on revenge through mass murder,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, then a House member from New York who was one of the bill's champions, said in April 1994. ''They have no place in our society.''
 But if the spirit of the law was a blow to black rifles, the letter of it allowed them to live on and thrive. Colt focused on supplying weapons to the military and law enforcement. But competitors were already copying the rifle, since the original patents granted to ArmaLite had expired. All they had to do was rejigger their designs to reduce the number of offending features. 
 Demand for black rifles, meanwhile, began to grow. A new generation of hunters, many of whom had fired M-16s in the military, adopted them for shooting predators on rural property and stalking small game. The .223-caliber ammunition they used was inexpensive and easily found. The guns began to get a reputation for being durable despite their light weight; they also loaded automatically (unlike bolt-action hunting rifles) and their recoil was gentle enough for even novice shooters and children to withstand. Once the AR-15 was deemed accurate enough for use in high-powered rifle competitions, it soon became standard issue for target shooters.
 And with the basic design of black rifles open to industrywide adaptations, gun makers began adding their own innovations and accessories to refine and improve the AR-15's performance. By 2004, when the assault weapons ban expired, black rifles had emerged as a major category in firearms. But while Colt's sales had shrunk in the intervening years, output exploded for black-rifle specialists like Bushmaster, Rock River Arms and DPMS.
 ''The little guys perfected the platform,'' says Michael Bane, a gun blogger and writer who is the host of ''Shooting Gallery,'' a program on the Outdoor Channel on cable television. ''They had the 10 years of the ban to get their chops down.''
 But for most of those 10 years, these small manufacturers managed to fly under the radar of many gun owners, including Mr. Zumbo, a self-described traditionalist who says he had seen only one black rifle during a lifetime of hunting. ''I had absolutely zero idea of the number of people who are into these types of firearms,'' he says.
 Not so for Mr. Nugent, who stocked up on black rifles before the ban took effect and estimates that he now owns about two dozen. If the boom in black rifles began in spite of the federal assault weapons ban, it has accelerated only in the two and a half years since the ban expired. Manufacturers have been freed to revive once-prohibited features like collapsible stocks, flash suppressors and large-capacity magazines. 
 Analysts say that images from the Iraq war showing American soldiers armed with black rifles have also helped sales, as have concerns about domestic safety after Sept. 11 and Hurricane Katrina. ''People on the street want to use what the people in the military and law enforcement are using,'' says Amit Dayal, an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw in New York. 
 Based only on the volume of accessories sold -- such as high-powered scopes and flashlights -- Mr. Bane estimates that as many as 750,000 black rifles, including about 400,000 AR-15s, change hands each year. Brownells, a company in Montezuma, Iowa, a big seller of firearms parts and accessories, says AR-15 gear has become its best-selling product category.
 Because all but a few gun manufacturers are closely held private companies, overall sales figures for the black rifle industry are hard to come by. But companies are required to report their overall rifle production to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and based on that, many of the small manufacturers that have specialized in the guns are ''on the verge of being big,'' Mr. Bane says. One, Stag Arms of New Britain, Conn., opened in 2004 and is already producing 2,500 to 3,000 black rifles a month, according to the president and owner, Mark Malkowski. That would be 30,000 to 36,000 a year, roughly the same number that Colt was producing in the late 1990s.
 Buoyant demand has enticed a number of established gunsmiths into the market, too. Smith & Wesson, known for its revolvers, has made black rifles a strategic priority in its turnaround. It introduced its first model in early 2006. It was so popular that the company had to supplement manufacturing of the gun, which had been outsourced, just to meet consumer demand. 
 ''It's our hope that we would be the share leader in the category,'' says Leland A. Nichols, Smith & Wesson's chief operating officer. He said that in the company's own surveys of consumers, its brand outpolled all other black rifle makers before it even had a product on the market.
 A similar story is unfolding at the Remington Arms Company, long one of the strongest brands in hunting rifles. The company started its first line of black rifles earlier this year. In April, Cerberus Capital Management, the private equity firm that recently made a deal to buy Chrysler, agreed to acquire Remington for $370 million, adding it to the gun maker Bushmaster in the fund's portfolio and raising the possibility of collaboration between the two companies. 
 ''A month ago black guns were not a business opportunity,'' says Al Russo, a spokesman for Remington, citing the growth potential that the Cerberus deal offers. ''Now they are.'' 
 Despite their popularity, black rifles remain a target for advocates of gun control. Seven states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, as well as several major cities, including New York and Chicago, have enacted bans on certain firearms they have deemed assault weapons, including some black rifles. 
 In February, Representative Carolyn McCarthy, a New York Democrat, introduced a renewal of the federal ban on assault weapons that would greatly expand the measure. But few expect the bill to gain any traction.
 ''It's highly unlikely that any legislation to move an assault weapons ban is going to happen,'' says Kristen Rand, legislative director at the Violence Policy Center, a gun-control lobbying group. ''That's the sad reality on the Hill right now.''
 MS. RAND says it is hard to know how often black rifles are used in crime, because the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has not reported such statistics to the public since 2001. But based on anecdotal evidence, Ms. Rand says, criminals are favoring imported semiautomatics like AK-47s and SKS rifles, which are cheaper to obtain than AR-15s.
 ''We were never claiming that every buyer of an assault weapon is a criminal or is a potential mass killer,'' says Mr. Hennigan of the Brady Center. ''But the consumers of the assault weapons are going to include a higher percentage of violent criminals than other guns.''
 Gun rights advocates scoff, saying that a .223-caliber bullet that comes out of a black rifle is the same as one fired from other guns. Mr. Nugent scoffs as well.
 ''It's just a neat tool,'' he says. ''Black rifles are cool. Case closed. The more the better.''
 Mr. Zumbo, chastened by the outcry that his black-rifle comments set off, says he hopes to resume writing about hunting and to revive his popular cable television show, which was put on hiatus when it lost sponsors after the blog post. He says his time at Mr. Nugent's ranch reminded him that gun owners have to reject banning any firearm, lest it open the door to banning them all. He also says that, like it or not, black rifles are now mainstream. 
 ''Having met the people who shoot these things, they were regular folks; they weren't sinister people who were bent on causing harm, they weren't hostile people,'' he says. ''They were interested in the guns because they were fun to shoot.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: On his Texas ranch in February, Ted Nugent, left, showed an AR-15 rifle to Jim Zumbo, an outdoors writer. (Photo by Don Zaidle/Texas Fish & Game magazine)(pg. 1)
Leland A. Nichols, left, an executive at Smith & Wesson in Springfield, Mass., and John Kapusta, an engineering manager, with an M&P 15 rifle. Such rifles have been crucial to the company's turnaround plans. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)(pg. 7) Chart: ''The Tricked-Out Rifle'' Part of the allure of black rifles is how easy it is to customize them. Buyers can choose from a huge variety of accessories to go with their guns or, if they prefer, build one from scratch, using individual parts. Rifles able to accept detachable magazines and more than one of the features in *bold were defined as assault weapons and banned in the United States from 1994 to 2004. *COLLAPSIBLE STOCK Shortens the profile of the gun for greater comfort and easier transport. CARRY SLING For carrying on the back or shoulder. Three-point slings like those used by the military hold the rifle at waist level. *PISTOL GRIP Keeps the shooter's hand stable for greater accuracy and faster firing. *DETACHABLE MAGAZINE Holds each cartridge until it is delivered to the chamber. Magazines capable of holding more than 10 rounds were also prohibited under the federal assault weapons ban. VERTICAL HAND GRIP Stabilizes the gun and keeps hand away from barrel. May also provide storage for small parts or buttons for flashlight. MAGNIFIER Extends range of scope to allow for long-range shooting. Flips out of the way when shooting close-in targets. SCOPES Allows shooter to see a target up close. Popular varieties also place laser dots or holograms on targets. *FLASH SUPPRESSOR Reduces the burst of light after firing that can interfere with sighting and reveal shooter's location. Some black rifles now have a *BAYONET MOUNT and/or a *GRENADE LAUNCHER, features that were restricted under the assault-weapons ban. BIPOD Supports the barrel of the gun on the ground or other surface. LIGHT A flashlight with bulbs that won't shatter when the gun is fired. (Hannah Fairfield/The New York Times
 photographs by R. Jones/The Imagesmith) (Sources by Samson Manufacturing)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); SMALL ARMS MFG (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%)

COMPANY: MERRIMAN HOLDINGS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (74%) WYOMING, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



77 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Play; THE BUSINESS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: FIRST AND LONG -- VERY LONG

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Joe Nocera is a business columnist for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Bill Hambrecht is a rich old Wall Street guy who has made his money tilting at windmills and disrupting the establishment. ''That's what I do,'' he says. ''It's fun.'' Almost a decade ago, at 62, he founded WR Hambrecht + Company, whose fundamental premise is that companies don't need to use Wall Street investment bankers -- and pay their outrageous fees -- to go public. Hambrecht + Company has since become so threatening to traditional underwriters that they often refuse to be involved in any I.P.O. in which his firm takes part. 
 And now, at an age when most people are well into retirement, he has decided to tackle the establishment again. This time, though, the establishment isn't Wall Street. It's the National Football League. Bill Hambrecht, you see, is starting up a professional football league. So far, he and his partner, Tim Armstrong, a senior executive at Google, have pledged $2 million each. They've hired a C.E.O. and a C.O.O., both of whom cut their teeth at the National Basketball Association. They've got a name: the United Football League. And they've lined up a wealthy, well-known businessman as their first owner: Mark Cuban, the billionaire who owns the N.B.A.'s Dallas Mavericks. Like Hambrecht, Cuban loves nothing more than confronting the status quo.
Obviously, the U.F.L. is still in the early planning stages. It hasn't yet hired a single football person and is still hunting for seven more owners with Cuban's deep pockets and contrarian mindset, so that the league can begin with eight teams. It could easily fall apart before the first kickoff. Indeed, there has already been one setback: Boone Pickens, the oilman-turned-corporate-raider-turned-billionaire-hedge-fund-manager, recently abandoned his intention to buy a team. But Cuban remains committed, and if all goes according to plan, the U.F.L. will play its first preseason games in August 2008. I kid you not.
 Hambrecht has been thinking unconventional thoughts about pro football for a long time. Back in the early 1980s, he was a minority partner in the Oakland Invaders, one of the original franchises of the late, unlamented United States Football League, a spring league that played its games during the N.F.L.'s off-season. The U.S.F.L. folded in 1985, after three seasons. ''It was started by a bunch of guys who were riding high because of the S.&L. boom,'' Hambrecht recalls. ''As soon as the boom turned to bust, the league went broke.''
 Most of us would go through such an experience and conclude, Never again. Not Hambrecht. He was convinced that the U.S.F.L. could have worked with a smarter game plan and owners who were more patient. At various times he discussed a new league with NBC, CBS and Fox, but those talks went nowhere. Then one day last year, Hambrecht told Tim Armstrong, whom he met when his firm helped manage Google's initial public offering, about his dream of a new football league. The more Armstrong heard, the more excited he got. By October, the two men had committed their $2 million, hired their first three executives (Bill Daugherty, the C.E.O.; Jon Brod, the C.O.O.; and Andrew Goldberg, a senior analyst) and begun an extensive study to see if the idea was really feasible.
 Let's now take a moment to consider what the U.F.L. will be up against: a monopolistic sports league utterly unafraid to take advantage of its monopoly power. Over the years, the N.F.L. has squashed four competitors, most recently the NBC- and World Wrestling Federation-backed XFL in 2001. Right now, Arena Football is an alternate league, but it's a marginal thing, with negligible TV ratings and an average of 12,000 fans per game. And with eight players to a side, games in the N.F.L.'s off-season and a field that looks like a hockey rink, it's not exactly ''real'' football.
 Where others might be daunted by the N.F.L.'s success and power, though, Hambrecht came to believe its monopoly status gave him an opening. ''I really started thinking hard about this after the Los Angeles Rams left to go to St. Louis and the Houston Oilers went to Nashville,'' he told me over drinks recently. ''Why do you leave two of the top 10 TV markets in the country for these two smaller markets?''
 The answer, of course, is that the N.F.L. doesn't really have to worry about where its teams are located, since most games are televised and the bulk of the league's revenues come from its network contracts. What's more, with the right stadium deal and enough corporate sponsorship, team owners can make as much (or more) money in smaller cities as they can in larger ones. That's why the N.F.L. does just fine despite not fielding a team in 21 of the country's top 50 markets -- including such enormous metropolitan areas as San Antonio, Las Vegas, Orlando and (of course) Los Angeles. Nor does the N.F.L., which now has 32 teams, have much incentive to expand. On the contrary: expansion dilutes the TV money. (Greg Aiello, the N.F.L.'s spokesman, told me that ''expansion isn't on the table right now.'')
 So the first step in Hambrecht's plan is to enter big cities where the N.F.L. isn't. As Mark Cuban put it to me in an e-mail, ''There are quite a few good-sized non-N.F.L. cities that can support a pro team.'' So far, the U.F.L. has decided to put teams in Los Angeles, Las Vegas and Mexico City. (Cuban is considering taking the Las Vegas franchise.) Each owner will put up $30 million, giving him an initial half-interest in the team; the league will own the other half. But eventually the fans themselves will become shareholders -- because each team is going to sell shares to the public. Then the owner, the league and the fans will each own a third of every franchise.
 Hambrecht and his executives believe that the initial public offerings will raise, on average, another $60 million per team, giving it about $90 million in working capital. They also hope that the stock sale will create intense fan loyalty. ''This is going to be a very accessible league,'' says Daugherty, the C.E.O. ''Fans will own a piece of the team, and they'll get tickets at more affordable prices.''
 Hambrecht expects his owners to be wealthy -- and patient -- enough to absorb losses for up to five years. The league will need a television contract, of course, but its existence is not predicated on a megabucks deal, at least not at first. The U.F.L. is open to making a smaller deal with a cable network like USA, TNT or Comcast's Versus network (the former OLN). One mistake other leagues have made, Hambrecht believes, is counting on an upfront TV deal -- and bringing in owners who expect to make money instantly.
 One television advantage the U.F.L. will have is Friday night. Thanks to the 1961 Sports Broadcasting Act, the N.F.L. is prohibited from televising games on most autumn Friday nights. (The prohibition was meant to protect high-school football.) Any new league would have televised football all to itself on that evening.
 A new league's biggest issue, though, is whether it really can approximate the N.F.L.'s level of play. As Daugherty puts it, ''If you don't put a good product on the field, nothing else matters.'' When he first signed on, he and Brod immediately began looking into that question -- and they came away convinced they could land decent players right away, and very good players eventually.
 ''Bill Walsh used to tell me that the last 20 players cut from every team were almost interchangeable with the last 20 players to make the team,'' Hambrecht says. The new league will hire the best of those last 20 players -- along with the best of the Arena players, the Canadian Football League players and so on. Though the U.F.L. will have a salary cap, it will be able to pay those players more than they are making now. It won't be able to afford to sign marquee names like Peyton Manning or the biggest stars coming out of college, obviously. But the U.F.L. will be able to offer most rookies, who aren't top draft choices, far more money than the N.F.L. would give them. And since the N.F.L. salary cap has been negotiated with the players' union, it can't be unilaterally changed.
 ''The average career of an N.F.L. player is less than four years,'' Daugherty says. ''They have a huge incentive to maximize their income.'' The new league's officials think they'll be able to sign players drafted by the N.F.L. in the second round and later. And one former N.F.L. coach I spoke to -- who asked not to be named because he didn't want people to know he had spoken to the U.F.L. -- agreed. ''They are going to be able to get players and coaches,'' he said. ''That's not going to be a problem.'' It's also worth remembering that many late-round draft choices are good football players. Tom Brady, for instance, was a sixth-round draft choice.
 As U.F.L. executives see it, there has really only been one competing league that took the approach they want to take: the old American Football League. The A.F.L. played ''11 on 11'' football in the fall, mostly in cities where the N.F.L. did not. Its founder, Lamar Hunt, pioneered the concept of revenue-sharing and built a unified league with the staying power to last nine years before it merged with the N.F.L. That is the model the new league wants to emulate. Whether the ultimate goal is to merge with the N.F.L. or play alongside it -- well, that's the one place Hambrecht wasn't going to go with me. ''We'll just see how it plays out,'' he said.
 When I asked Roger Noll, a sports economist at Stanford University, whether it is possible to compete with the N.F.L., he laughed, but he didn't scoff. ''The crucial barrier to entry is finding stadiums in the biggest cities,'' he replied -- something U.F.L. executives insist is not a problem in the places they are considering. ''If you can do that, it would be easy to have a league.'' Noll pointed out that for wealthy people who want to own a football team, it is far cheaper to start a new league than to try to land an expansion team -- which, assuming that the N.F.L. were interested, would cost upward of $800 million. ''You need to have enough money to experience losses that will amount to 20 to 30 percent of revenue in the first three or four years,'' he said. It's much cheaper to lose money over that time than to purchase an N.F.L. franchise.
 When we met, Hambrecht said: ''A guy asked me, 'Why are you doing this?' '' He shrugged. ''I had trouble explaining, except that it made logical sense.'' On paper, it does. Whether it plays out that way in real life -- who can say? But it'll be fun to watch. Bill Hambrecht ventures usually are. . 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (74%); TIM ARMSTRONG (52%); DAVID S JOHNSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



78 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: A Day in the Life of an Interconnected World

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
DANIEL ALTMAN, a well-traveled columnist for this section, earned a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard. In ''Connected: 24 Hours in the Global Economy'' (Farrar, Straus, Giroux, $24), he promises to use his formidable knowledge and access to take readers beyond stock market indexes and into the inner workings of the global economy.
 The international economic system, Mr. Altman declares, is ''an enormous machine crammed with six billion interlocking cogs and wheels.'' That is, people. ''Not everyone's wheel is the same size,'' he adds, ''but everyone's wheel matters.'' Hmm. This is not a book about hierarchies. 
''Connected'' avoids the often wearying debate over globalization. The author writes that he does not identify either with the ''jingoistic pronouncements of a laissez-faire true believer'' or with ''the screams of a black-clad protester outside a major trade summit.'' Such evocation of extremes leaves him plenty of room.
 Mr. Altman grandly asserts that ''everything's connected, and every action by an individual instantly affects everyone else.'' Hyperbole aside, bringing alive the many links over vast distances turns out to be a killer task.
 To depict the world as he sees it, Mr. Altman uses a clever move: presenting a montage of 14 snapshots taken on June 15, 2005, from Damascus to Dili. He eschews straightforward narrative, favoring zoom-in, zoom-out impressions and lengthy quotations from a kaleidoscope of people. He also interjects tutorials on topics like the oil market or the global currency trade. ''Connections'' comes across as disjointed -- almost deliberately so.
 Chapters leap about. For example, the opening section on Ericsson of Sweden discusses a deal it proposes with Napster for downloading music on mobile phones. The chapter also takes in various corporate mergers and a downloaded ramble from a carbon emissions trader on a trip to Slovakia -- replete with ruminations on the author Dan Brown and the BlackBerry -- before snapping back to Ericsson-Napster. The takeaway point? ''It never stops.'' 
 In another chapter, riffs on postwar Japanese bureaucrats and Eliot Spitzer of New York, among other topics, suggest a need for international regulatory harmonization. But how? Elsewhere, a chapter on hedge funds indicates that global risk might be astronomical, so we need greater cooperation among banks in monitoring exposure. But what if they don't?
 Another chapter spotlights Mark Sobel of the United States Treasury Department, ''a believer in convergence of global financial regulation.'' Mr. Altman reveals that for Mr. Sobel, ''convergence'' entails other countries' adopting United States regulations. Americans, Mr. Altman says, almost never consider foreign practice to see whether it could be useful. (For good measure, he remarks that United States growth may not be so impressive, and that Americans are not happy.) 
 Seeking complexity, Mr. Altman poses excellent questions. But his jumping hypertext of a book (offline, as it were) does not seem to want to answer them systematically.
 Keep scrolling. A chapter that deftly illustrates the differences in the economies of a booming Turkey, which has a stock exchange, and an impoverished Syria, which does not, paradoxically ends up mentioning that China has achieved phenomenal growth with a very immature stock market. 
 More pointed is a finely wrought portrait of Intel's business in Vietnam, where Mr. Altman shows how this American company -- to mass Vietnamese benefit -- took full advantage of the Communist government's monopoly. ''Intel has succeeded in Vietnam,'' he elucidates, ''because its goal and the government's are roughly the same: more Vietnamese using computers.'' And if petty officials in Vietnam demand bribes from Intel, the company can rat them out to the central powers in Hanoi.
 In the same chapter, Mr. Altman observes that Beijing has invited foreigners to buy some Chinese companies to force domestic businesses to become more competitive, in effect using the barbarians as an arm of the Chinese state. The Communist leadership has also directed some state companies to sell shares on foreign exchanges before listing them at home, so they can hone international accounting practices.
 The bottom line: What partly distinguishes China and its emulators is that their rulers maintain political control while outsourcing crucial market reforms to foreigners who have the incentives and skill. (Then, in many cases, the Asian companies throw over the foreign partners like ballast.)
 This insight into authoritarian governments' use of Western-based multinationals links to a discussion of Western citizens' ability to influence the behavior of these companies abroad. It is hard to impose rules on them in their home countries, Mr. Altman observes, because evidence of wrongdoing must be collected far away. And companies can relocate offshore if pressured.
 Nongovernmental organizations and the media can still force change, he writes. He points to Gap Inc., which after being accused of using sweatshops now proudly promotes itself as the corporation with a conscience. The globe is a fishbowl.
 The globe can also be a bottleneck, when it comes to labor. Mr. Altman notes that amid xenophobia over immigrants, New Zealand and Canada, Poland and Ukraine, are scrambling to lure back expatriates. He refrains from inquiring whether workers might finally be reacquiring some leverage.
 IN an epilogue, he writes that ''there's still no substitute for real human contact.'' This seems strange in a book evidently filled with e-mail solicited from people asked to report on their June 15 activities as well as transcripts of cellphone conversations that day.
 Mr. Altman also states that ''the day when you could sit at home and think only of your own little circle, your own work and your own neighborhood has clearly passed.'' This for a readership in a country that is fighting two wars, in Afghanistan and Iraq, but where the vast majority of citizens can tune out those complications.
 Perhaps his most revealing moment, as a journalist covering the global beat, lies in his assertion that just keeping abreast is tantamount to some kind of mastery of global forces. If you pay attention, he advises, ''you'll start to feel your cog or wheel getting a bit more purchase on the big machine.''
 ''In short,'' he adds, ''you'll be making connectedness work for you.'' If only globalization were actually that easy. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MERGERS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); EMISSIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); MOBILE MEDIA (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); INTERNET AUDIO (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (82%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (52%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (82%); ERIC.A (STO) (82%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (82%); RIM (TSX) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (53%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SLOVAKIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



79 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; EVENING HOURS; Pg. 13

HEADLINE: The Art of Living

BYLINE: By Bill Cunningham

 BODY:

GRAPHIC: Photos: May 30: The Kaufman Center held its annual benefit awards dinner at the Mandarin Oriental hotel. Five hundred guests attended, and it raised more than $800,000. The evening included a performance by young students at the center, an arts institution on West 67th Street. 1. Some of the students who performed. 2. ELAINE KAUFMAN, left, and BETHANY MILLARD. 3. From left, PAUL INGRASSIA, BRUCE MOSLER and JOHN SCHAEFER, all of whom were honored. 4. From left, TOM and ANN JOHNSON and HENRY KAUFMAN. 5. YVES ISTEL and KATHLEEN BEGALA. 6. From left, NICKI TANNER, JOYCE COWIN and LYNN TOBIAS.
May 31: The Alliance for the Arts had an awards dinner at the Tavern on the Green attended by 330 guests and raising over $700,000. The alliance publishes information on New York cultural events and researches the contribution of the arts to the economy and education. The evening honored Joan, Laurie and Jonathan Tisch. 7. CAROLYN, left, and EMILY SUSSMAN. 8. From left, LIZZIE RUDNICK
JONATHAN TISCH
his mother, JOAN TISCH
and his sister, LAURIE TISCH.
May 29: The Police Athletic League had its annual ''Superstar'' awards dinner at the Pierre. The event, which honored United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, was attended by 350 guests. The league was founded in 1914
it provides recreational, educational and cultural activities for New York children. 9. From left, CHARLES B. RANGEL, ARTHUR BARNES, DAVID N. DINKINS and Dr. R. CHESTER REDHEAD. 10. DONALD J. TRUMP and ROBERT M. MORGENTHAU. 11. LUCRETIA OBOLENSKY, left, JULIET HANLON and IVAN OBOLENSKY.
May 31: The New York City chapter of the Alzheimer's Association had a benefit dinner at the Pierre. Five hundred guests attended, and it raised more than $1 million. Eleanor Perfetto, Sylvia Mackey, and the National Football League and N.F.L. Players Association received awards. 12. From left, ELEANOR PERFETTO, SYLVIA MACKEY and LOU-ELLEN BARKAN.
May 30: The Russian Children's Welfare Society held a benefit reception after a Carnegie Hall concert featuring Anna Netrebko and Dmitri Hvorostovsky with the Orchestra of St. Luke's
Asher Fisch conducted. The group helps children in Russia. 13. ANNA NETREBKO and DMITRI HVOROSTOVSKY. 14. DIANA VISHNEVA, left, and BEATRICE M. FEKULA. 15. JENNIFER SMALL, left, ADAM WOLFENSOHN and his mother, ELAINE WOLFENSOHN.
May 29: The Museum of Modern Art celebrated the exhibition ''Richard Serra Sculpture: Forty Years,'' which opens today. More than 500 guests attended the dinner. The monumental steel sculptures are seen in the garden and the second- and sixth-floor galleries. 16. RICHARD SERRA embracing CLARA SERRA, his wife, with KYNASTON McSHINE. 17. Some of the sculptures, on the second floor. 18. MARLENE HESS, left
JERRY I. SPEYER, who will become the museum's chairman on July 1
 and PAULA CROWN. 19. MARNIE PILLSBURY and DAVID ROCKEFELLER. 20. DONALD MARRON, left, and ROBERT B. MENSCHEL. 21. RENEE PRICE and FRANK STELLA. 22. AMANDA BURDEN and CHARLIE ROSE. 23. Dr. CORDIA BEVERLEY, left, Dr. STUART W. LEWIS and AGNES GUND. 24. RICHARD E. SALOMON and MIMI HAAS. 25. DOROTHY CULLMAN and DANIEL SHAPIRO. 26. TOM LEVINE and JENNIFER RUSSELL. 27. JONI WEYL and SIDNEY FELSEN. 28. From left, DELPHINE GANCIA, VERONICA HEARST and FABIOLA BERACASA. 29. PEGGY COOPER DAVIS and THELMA GOLDEN. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); ALLIANCE FOR THE ARTS (59%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (89%); DONALD TRUMP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



80 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Reviving a Birthplace of Civil Rights

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
J. W. ROBINSON, 80, remembers when the Sweet Auburn neighborhood in Atlanta was a mecca for aspiring African-American professionals like himself. Just out of college in the early 1950s, Mr. Robinson, a fledgling architect, used to frequent the stylish establishments along the 1.5-mile-long stretch of Auburn Avenue -- among them the Royal Peacock, a nightclub that featured Ray Charles and well-known jazz performers of the day.
 ''Back when I was in my early 20s, Auburn Avenue was a street that had everything a person could need -- fine restaurants, the best stores and great entertainment,'' said Mr. Robinson, who is now one of the architects charting a $48.5 million revitalization of the neighborhood.
Situated several blocks from Atlanta's downtown, the area known as Sweet Auburn has been called the cradle of the civil rights movement and has since received national and local historic landmark designations. Auburn Avenue was the birthplace of Martin Luther King Jr., and he is buried there. 
 But as the rest of the city opened up its neighborhoods to blacks as well as whites, successful residents tended to move away, and the area deteriorated economically. It also suffered when a highway connector at Interstates 75 and 85 split the neighborhood in two. These days it is pockmarked with empty stores and vacant lots and plagued by crime. 
 At the same time, the historic designations ''put a damper on new construction, because of the limits they place on certain changes,'' said A. J. Robinson, the president of Central Atlanta Progress, a downtown business improvement group. (He is not related to J. W. Robinson, the architect.) Until the recent creation of a special tax district, ''there were no incentives for developers,'' he said.
 Now city officials, a private developer and leaders of the Big Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Atlanta are trying to reverse that downward trend by building housing and commercial space on one block of Auburn Avenue, hoping that will inspire change in the neighborhood.
 In a joint venture of the church, located on Auburn Avenue since 1847, and the Integral Group, a local development company, the partners are building Renaissance Walk at Sweet Auburn. On three acres, it will include 30,000 square feet of retail space and condominiums and lofts selling for $250,000 to $600,000, all scheduled to open this fall.
 Since its inception, the church -- where President William Howard Taft spoke in 1911 and Nelson Mandela appeared in 1990 -- has played a significant role in the social, political and economic life of its congregation, said the Rev. Gregory V. Eason Sr., the current pastor. Even after congregants move to other parts of Atlanta, many return on Sundays to the church, which also runs a high-rise housing project in the neighborhood and housing for recovering addicts. 
 The church began buying parcels as they came up for sale in the years after desegregation. Its goal with Renaissance Walk, Pastor Eason said, is to bring the middle class back to live in Sweet Auburn.
 About $9 million in private equity for the project has come from the Integral Group, with the remainder being financed through the Bank of America, said Egbert L. J. Perry, an Atlanta resident and the chief executive of the Integral Group. The company was a developer of nearby Centennial Place, which was nationally recognized as a model for urban mixed-income, mixed-use neighborhood revitalization. 
 So far, two-thirds of the one- and two bedroom condos at Renaissance Walk have been sold, Mr. Perry said, noting that the buyers are primarily young African-American professionals and empty nesters, some of whom work in downtown Atlanta, which is within walking distance from the new residences.
 Rodney Lee, an African-American businessman, bought a one-bedroom condo at Renaissance Walk and is moving from College Park, a suburb of Atlanta, to Sweet Auburn with his wife, Tyesha, and two sons. ''We want to be part of everything that's going on there in terms of reclaiming the spirit of this place,'' said Mr. Lee, who is reopening a floral shop that had gone out business in the blighted neighborhood. 
 David M. Hamilton, an architect for the project, said his company, Praxis3, designed Renaissance Walk around the shells of several one- and two-story buildings, including the now-defunct Mutual Federal Savings Bank of Atlanta, one of the first black-owned banks in the nation. The older structures, dating from the first half of the 20th century, will house most of the retail space and some of the lofts. Although they were gutted and renovated, their exteriors remain essentially unchanged, Mr. Hamilton said. 
 A new seven-story brick and precast stone structure, which includes most of the condos and is designed to harmonize with the existing architecture, ''blends in but doesn't mimic what is there,'' said Stuart Romm, another principal of Praxis3, which is based in Atlanta. 
 J. W. Robinson, who renovated Dr. King's birth home and is the lead architect for his family-owned architectural firm, J. W. Robinson & Associates in Atlanta, has overseen construction of a six-level parking garage and replacement of the old sewer system, which was built in the late 1800s out of hand-chiseled stone.
 ''It's been a most complex site to build on,'' Mr. Robinson said, ''mostly because of the very high water table in the area and the poor soil. And while we put in the new sewer system, we had to keep the old one functioning.'' 
 The city, Fulton County and the Atlanta Public Schools district created a special tax district and issued about $50 million in bonds for a variety of projects -- including the new sewage system in Sweet Auburn -- in several economically depressed areas of the city. Traditionally, the amount of such a bond is based on how much a project will generate in taxes over a longer-term period, in this case 25 years, said A. J. Robinson of the Central Atlanta Progress. The project is the ''largest and most significant investment in terms of private capital in the Auburn Avenue district in three decades,'' according to Mr. Robinson. 
 Kwanza Hall, a city councilman whose district includes Auburn Avenue and whose late father, Leon Hall, worked with Dr. King, said that since construction began on Renaissance Walk, Georgia State University began building a 2,000-bed dormitory in the Sweet Auburn district. The dormitory project, Mr. Hall said, will most likely lead to a big increase in the number of people using the businesses along Auburn Avenue. 
 Some community activists, however, are concerned that the area will become gentrified and out of the reach of many working-class African-Americans, even though 20 percent of the units have been designated as affordable and are selling for less than $200,000. 
 At the Historic District Development Corporation, Joan P. Garner, the president and chief executive, explained that preservation and affordability are two main goals of her nonprofit group. ''We're glad to see development happening in the area,'' she said, ''but we were concerned to see some old buildings torn down in the process.'' 
 Mr. Perry of Integral Group defended the 20 percent set-aside of below-market-rate units, saying: ''If that percent of all new residential construction was affordable, so many cities wouldn't be seeing such a severe crisis of work-force housing. Renaissance Walk should serve as a good model for others to follow.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: REBUILDING SWEET AUBURN -- The Rev. Gregory V. Eason Sr., standing in Renaissance Walk in Atlanta, hopes that the mixed-use project, shown in a rendering at top, will bring back middle-class residents. A Renaissance Walk condo, above, overlooks the skyline. (Photographs by Tami Chappel for The New York Times
 top right, David Harmon) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); RELIGION (67%); TRENDS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



81 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: In Silicon Valley, the Crash Seems Like Just Yesterday

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
GRANDPA lived through the Depression, and life thereafter was indelibly shaped by haunting memories of soup kitchens and hobos. Similarly, the digerati of Silicon Valley endured the 1990s dot-com bubble, and since then have lived with the psychic shock of its ignoble end. 
 The average valley entrepreneur tends to spot bubbles everywhere, much the way granddad feared financial ruin every time a grandchild carelessly scraped leftover food into the trash. 
''There's such a heightened sense of bubble awareness in Silicon Valley that people confuse any expression of enthusiasm for a bubble,'' said Paul Kedrosky, the executive director of the William J. von Liebig Center for Entrepreneurism and Technology Advancement at the University of California, San Diego. 
 ''It's like people in the valley had bombs dropped on their heads six or seven years ago,'' he said, ''and now they're so hyperaware that if they even hear what they think is a lit fuse, they're scurrying for the exits, yelling, 'Bubble, bubble, bubble.' ''
 Yes, Silicon Valley is back, and one might think that its residents would see that as a good thing. The venture-capital money is once again flowing, and the entrepreneurial spirit is now so robust that the joke of the moment is that people can't find anyone to work at their start-ups because everyone is too busy working on their own. But a once cocksure region is also displaying a deep-seated insecurity -- raising the question of whether there's really a bubble about to pop or whether Silicon Valley is just suffering from post-traumatic stress.
 The latest display of self-flagellation in Silicon Valley was sparked by a jeremiad posted May 22 by Michael Arrington, who since 2005 has edited a popular blog, TechCrunch. He titled his lament, ''Silicon Valley Could Use a Downturn Right About Now,'' and over the next week readers added more than 200 postings. Most agreed with Mr. Arrington, who wrote that the ''madness'' started about a year ago. 
 ''It's just like the old days again, and Silicon Valley is no longer any fun,'' he wrote. ''It may be time for some of us to leave for a while and watch the craziness from the outside.'' 
 Many children of the boom often romanticize the early days of Silicon Valley as a period of pure, nonentrepreneurial geekdom. But it might be time for Mr. Arrington and those who agree with him to embrace the effervescent nature of Silicon Valley, a place that Paul Saffo, a technology consultant who saw the rise of the P.C., is inclined to describe as a ''cappuccino economy.'' 
 ''We always have lots of little bubbles in Silicon Valley,'' Mr. Saffo said. ''It's like the froth on cappuccino. A little froth is a very good thing. A lot of froth, especially if you mix in a lot of inexperienced people, that's a bad thing.''
 That's exactly what happened in the second half of the 1990s, and once again that corner of the valley universe is abuzz about the preposterous prices some are paying to own a small slice of a start-up that has no clear plan for making money. 
 A certain business sector suddenly becomes the rage -- green energy, say, or social networking -- and venture capitalists, eager to say they have a ''play'' in a particular ''space,'' stumble over one another to finance every copycat company. And even if few Internet companies are going public nowadays, the striving entrepreneur can find inspiration in companies like YouTube, the video-sharing Web site, which had yet to celebrate its first anniversary (or its first profits) when Google bought it last fall for $1.65 billion. 
 Yet old hands say these are hardly the ''spray and play'' days of the late 1990s. Venture capitalists are investing a small fraction of the money they committed during the boom. They collectively invested $62.7 billion in technology start-ups in 2000, according to VentureOne, a financial research firm, compared with $14.3 billion last year and $3.1 billion in the first three months of 2007. 
 ''So far we haven't seen any of these loonier deals like during the bubble,'' said Scott C. Dettmer, a founding partner of Gunderson Dettmer, a Silicon Valley law firm, who serves as a kind of consigliere to entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. 
 Another difference: Those seeking little else but gold are not descending on Silicon Valley in great numbers as they did in the late 1990s. 
 ''The same carpetbaggers who came to Silicon Valley to hit it rich last time are now looking for jobs with hedge funds,'' said Mark J. Pincus, an entrepreneur working on his fifth start-up.
 Talk of a new bubble has burbled off and on for the last couple of years. Lips were flapping, for instance, two years ago when Accel Partners, a Palo Alto-based venture firm, paid $12.2 million for a stake of about 15 percent in Facebook, a social-networking site. 
 ''I was one of the people saying that deal was crazy,'' said David Sze, a partner at Greylock, a venture capital firm. But the following year, Mr. Sze convinced his partners to kick in a large portion of the $25 million Facebook raised in a second round of venture financing. 
 ''Everyone who was giving me a hard time about that investment has come back to me and said, 'Wow, we were wrong,' '' Mr. Sze said.
 Yet whether a venture capitalist makes a particular foolish investment is mostly beside the point. The pros know that failure and the boom-bust cycle are an inherent part of tech innovation. It's half-baked companies going public that can affect 401(k)'s and the wider economy.
 ''Bubbles become bad only when bystanders get involved,'' Mr. Saffo said. ''The problem with the bubble in the late 1990s is that everyone's grandmother got involved, and that was bad because it made the bubble too big, and it made the price of failure too high.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Guy Billout) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (79%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (63%); CHILDREN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL ARRINGTON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



82 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Play; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 5329 words

HEADLINE: Cast Off, Characters!

BYLINE: By JOHN TAYMAN. 
John Tayman is the author of ''The Colony,'' about the leper colony of Molokai, and a contributing writer to Play. He lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
If everything proceeds as planned - not that it ever does - late on the afternoon of July 7, in the Mediterranean waters fronting the ancient Spanish city of Valencia, one middle-aged man's $100 million, four-year-long campaign to win the America's Cup will explode in his face. Precisely to whom this will occur has yet to be decided. Word along the waterfront identifies several good candidates. Larry Ellison, the billionaire software magnate behind the American entry, BMW Oracle, is a popular choice. Another is Patrizio Bertelli, the head of the Italian effort and the C.E.O. of the design house Prada, his boats's main sponsor. Then there is Ernesto Bertarelli, an elegant 41-year-old billionaire from Geneva who is the current holder of the Cup, which his team, Alinghi, wrested away from New Zealand in 2003. 
 One man happily exempt from this specter of sudden heartsick, however, is Xavier de Lesquen, a former French naval officer who, as the executive manager of China Team, oversees that nation's fledgling effort to win the oldest trophy in sports. Cup dreams tend to sour swiftly, with stunning, tearful finality, and it is considered bad juju to prognosticate. Even so, several outcomes are already certain. By the time you read this, China Team will have taken its lumps and been eliminated from the competition, transforming de Lesquen's role from that of participant to interested observer. China's departure will have surprised no one, not even de Lesquen. The campaign started tardily and was woefully underfunded; for every dollar that a superteam like Alinghi or BMW Oracle had to spend, China had only a dime. Lacking the wherewithal to build a team from scratch, the Chinese absorbed a French team, taking possession of most of its assets. These included an America's Cup-class racing yacht, a support staff, several French crew members and de Lesquen. Because China is home to few world-class yachtsmen -- and those who might be said to qualify were focused on the Beijing Olympics -- it took some effort to assemble the 17-man crew required to sail an America's Cup yacht. Officials of the Chinese Yachting Association fanned out across the country and plucked unsuspecting sailors from provincial teams. After congratulating the young men for having achieved their theretofore unknown dream of competing in an America's Cup, the officials hustled them off to Valencia, where they bivouacked in communal flats and communicated with their teammates, who are primarily French, via translators. ''I think our Chinese friends are a little bit homesick, yes,'' de Lesquen admitted when I visited Spain in April. ''It's a very strange thing for them.''
De Lesquen is fair-skinned for a sailor, with a nest of peach-colored hair and the bemused look of a man uncoupled from all expectations. This is his third go-round in the America's Cup, and he exudes a charming (and useful) Continental unflappability. During its first months in competition, China Team was comically inept: snapping spars, ripping sails and bungling the most basic racing strategy. Once, while enjoying a rare lead, the boat's bowman tumbled over the side and vanished, prompting the race announcer to cry, ''There he goes!'' Of late, though, de Lesquen's men had begun to find an awkward rhythm. ''Every day we gain a lot,'' he said. ''They are learning.'' Though he wasn't expecting any victories in the upcoming Louis Vuitton Cup, the round-robin tourney that would decide who challenges Alinghi for the Cup, de Lesquen could report to his Chinese backers that their campaign was proceeding well, all things considered.
 De Lesquen led me on a brief tour of China Team's base, which sits at the southwest edge of Port America's Cup, the venue built by the city of Valencia for the event. Each team maintains a base, in which they work, eat, train and entertain. China's is the most humble: a latticework of iron scaffolding shrouded in plastic sheeting. Within this greenhouse are a series of stacked metal shipping containers, of the type used on ocean freighters and by international smugglers, although in this instance they serve as the team's lockers, offices and kitchen. Atop the base is an outdoor terrace with a dragon-themed bar -- an homage to the team yacht, which they call Longtze, or ''son of dragon.'' The name, the team literature says, evokes ''speed and elegance at the same time.''
 Perhaps the kindest thing that can be said of China Team's facility is that it commands a fine view of the other bases. After we had climbed to the roof, I joined de Lesquen in gazing out over the harbor. Directly across the water stood Alinghi's base. Had it not pre-dated China Team's base, the Alinghi facility would seem to exist simply to mock it. Approximately the size of a small urban mall, it contains a basketball court, cinema, bandstand, gymnasium, gift shop and multilevel hospitality area known as Club Alinghi, which is furnished in a Euro style familiar to anyone who has ever received a catalog from Design Within Reach. The base cost almost as much as China Team's entire budget.
 In hopes of winning the 32nd America's Cup, which begins on June 23, Ernesto Bertarelli and his Alinghi syndicate will spend an estimated $135 million. Larry Ellison and BMW Oracle will spend $175 million, much of which comes from Ellison personally. Patrizio Bertelli's Prada team, known as Luna Rossa Challenge, will spend $135 million, and Emirates Team New Zealand will spend a relatively modest $100 million. By July 7, one of these four teams will hoist the America's Cup, having expended a combined $545 million -- almost $100 million more than it costs NASA to mount a space shuttle mission.
 De Lesquen turned from the view. An afternoon breeze had arrived, lofting a flock of cocktail napkins toward the sea. China Team's base was not yet complete; the thin plastic walls kept peeling free, and base security remained a strand of rope clipped to a plywood desk. But de Lesquen appeared untroubled. He stood smiling on the roof in the sun. ''At the end of the day,'' de Lesquen announced, ''this is a nice place to be.''
 The America's Cup has always been about money, even before it was the America's Cup. Origins of the contest trace to a taunt, made in 1850 by a now forgotten English merchant, which asserted that British boats were better than American boats. The merchant, so the story goes, dared anyone to prove otherwise. When this challenge reached the ear of John Cox Stevens, a millionaire and the first commodore of the New York Yacht Club, he assembled a syndicate of peers and hired a 31-year-old boat builder named George Steers to build the swiftest yacht possible. Seeking to stoke Steers's competitive fire -- or perhaps simply out of sheer deviousness -- Stevens's syndicate shifted its economic risk onto the naval architect. Payment for the $30,000 yacht, the contract stated, was conditional upon the boat's being ''faster than every vessel brought against her,'' in the United States or in England.
 Undaunted, Steers fashioned a yacht unlike any seen before. At the time, design theory held that a ship should have ''a cod's head and a mackerel's tail,'' meaning that the bow should be round and blunt and the stern narrow to a point. Steers reversed these conventions. His ship -- which would be christened America -- showed first as the blade of a sword, thickened gracefully at its midpoint, then fattened to a well-balanced finish. Also, British yachts of the era were typically rigged with a multitude of small, squarish sails made from flax, a troublesome material that required continual dousing with seawater to tighten the weave. America, in contrast, sported massive, asymmetrical sails constructed of machine-woven cotton duck, which more easily caught and held the wind, supplying the boat with astounding power. When Steers's masterpiece glided into English waters, the reaction of the British fleet was, as The Times of London reported, like one that ''the appearance of a sparrowhawk in the horizon creates among a flock of woodpigeons.''
 On August 22, 1851, America entered the Royal Yacht Squadron's annual regatta, challenging 14 boats on a 53-mile race to circumnavigate the Isle of Wight. It was hardly a contest. Though America became entangled in its anchor chain at the start, within 90 minutes it had outdistanced the field -- at one point building a seven-and-a-half-mile lead. America crossed the finish line alone, untested, as a band played ''Yankee Doodle Dandy.''
 Almost before the music faded, however, the unsentimental syndicate sold America to a British Army captain, earning a $1,750 profit. The trophy that Steers had won for them -- a homely silver ewer that would become known as the America's Cup -- was carried to New York and unveiled at a celebration in Astor House, where it was displayed among roast quail and dessert crafted in the shape of the America. No one bothered to invite George Steers.
 In the years to follow, the trophy remained mostly forgotten. The syndicate's members discussed melting it down and recasting it as medals they might wear while lounging in their club, but the scheme never developed. Eventually, the surviving members gave the trophy to the New York Yacht Club, yoked to a deceptively clever document known as the Deed of Gift, which stated that ''this Cup is donated upon the conditions that it shall be preserved as a perpetual Challenge Cup for friendly competition between foreign countries.'' A variety of other reasonable-sounding requirements were set forth, none of which seemed especially onerous until it dawned on the careful reader that the Deed's net effect was to rig the game in favor of whoever holds the Cup -- a wily bit of odds stacking that enabled the N.Y.Y.C. to retain the trophy for 132 years.
 ''The reason this sport is so unfair -- and there's nothing fair about it -- is because it's a winner-take-all game,'' explained Bill Koch, a self-described nerd from Kansas who spent $68 million to win the Cup in 1992 aboard America3. ''The winner gets the Cup, gets to set the venue, gets to pick the racecourse, gets to select the umpires and gets to select the judges.'' The rules have been made slightly more fair since Koch's campaign, but he does have a point. If the Deed of Gift was bound to the Lombardi Trophy, for instance, then the Indianapolis Colts could demand that the next Super Bowl be played in 2011, at Yankee Stadium, using flag-football rules, and be officiated by members of the Manning family.
 An M.I.T. grad, Koch once did the math and determined that any one challenger has only a 5 percent chance of stealing the Cup from the defender. (''It's just crazy!'' Koch shouted.) Yet despite these odds, a certain class of people will seemingly spend anything, and endure anything, in the attempt. Ted Turner, who won the Cup in 1977 aboard Courageous, described the experience as ''the closest I shall ever get to heaven.'' Sir Frank Packer, another media titan who sought the Cup -- twice, without success -- blamed his costly quest on ''alcohol and delusions of grandeur.'' Baron Marcel Bich, the inventor of the Bic pen, spent an estimated $4 million of his fortune, only to end up as the lone competitor ever to become lost during a race. (After being towed to safety, Bich punched a cameraman documenting his rescue.) The baron made three more runs at the Cup, losing ingloriously every time, but he reportedly considered his investment well spent, as it offered a nifty branding opportunity for his line of disposable pens and razors. (Such marketing tactics do have their limits. Yves Rousset-Rouard, who headed a French campaign in 1983, likely saw little benefit to his signature product, a series of soft-core motion pictures featuring an adventuresome young woman named Emmanuelle.)
 In the end, the rationale for competing in the Cup remains personal and even egotistical -- which, fortunately, tends to ensure the presence of oddballs in the mix. One favorite among Cup cognoscenti is William Henn, whose Galatea sailed in 1886 with a crew that included a raccoon, dogs, cats and a monkey named Peggy, who assisted in the lowering of sails and also served as team cheerleader, racing to the bowsprit and screeching and jumping with delight whenever Galatea took the lead.
 If one thing is missing from this America's Cup, it's the enlivening presence of a truly eccentric character like Turner or Bich or Henn. The person who comes closest is Ellison, a complex man with an intriguing irascibility. (During the lead-up to the 2003 Cup, his skipper actually booted him off the yacht.) But he's too seldom seen around Port America's Cup to truly engage the masses. A week after I departed Valencia, Ellison finally joined his team for its stretch run. Precious few locals ever got a good look at him, though. ''Larry's feet never touch the ground,'' a BMW Oracle team member explained. ''He goes right from the chase boat to the yacht and then back onto his own yacht.'' (His own yacht being the $200 million Rising Sun, which at 453 feet is too long to dock in Port America's Cup.)
 As reigning champion, Ernesto Bertarelli is more visible. To date, however, he has failed to exhibit any memorable quirkiness, beyond, perhaps, being married to a former Miss United Kingdom. Bertarelli is slender and fine-featured, with perfect skin and a tan deep enough to touch bone. In 1996, he took over Serono, his family's pharmaceutical firm, which had grown rich by developing the fertility drug that enabled the birth of Louise Brown, the world's first test-tube baby. Bertarelli steered the company into the American market, doubled its sales and then, earlier this year, sold the company to Merck for more than $13 billion. He is personable and polite. But he has never caught fire in the public imagination the way some of his flamboyant predecessors did. People magazine covered Bill Koch's rollicking chase for the Cup. Bertarelli's 2003 campaign was the subject of a case study by Babson College's William F. Glavin Center for Global Management.
 ''You gotta be willing to spend your last penny,'' Koch told me, explaining how to make a splash. ''And you gotta be willing to put every conceivable effort in it and be willing to sacrifice everything to win. It led to my divorce, and it led to my 6-year-old son hating sailing. And it's basically a silly sailboat race, and its only importance is in the minds of the participants.''
 Like many sports subcultures -- curling comes to mind, as does biathlon -- professional yachting can seem inscrutable and slightly ridiculous to outsiders. It's a sport lacking a fan base, failing even to command the attention of the approximately one million amateur sailors in the United States. Few people wake in the morning with the thought, I need to see some sailing. When the Outdoor Life Network (now Versus) aired portions of the 2003 America's Cup preliminaries, the broadcast garnered a dismal rating of 0.1: fewer than 60,000 people. (Although, to be sure, that tiny audience is very wealthy and a desirable demographic to team sponsors and to advertisers.)
 Even before he won in 2003, Bertarelli was contemplating ways to increase the Cup's popularity. One bothersome aspect of the sport was that it vanished from the public eye for years at a time before magically reappearing, like a cloud of cicadas. Working with Larry Ellison, Bertarelli began to systematically modernize the sport, in part by remaking it in the image of other, more visible professional sports. He added 13 regattas, known as ''acts,'' to serve as a sort of four-year-long regular season. (And also to keep the yachts, which function as floating billboards, in front of the cameras.) These 13 acts lead to a playoff, called the Louis Vuitton Cup, from which a challenger emerges to duel the champion in the America's Cup. (The Louis Vuitton Cup is taking place now, and will end no later than June 12.)
 Just as the N.B.A. and the N.F.L. administer all aspects of their respective sports, Bertarelli created A.C.M., America's Cup Management, to coordinate promotion of the America's Cup, strike television deals, arrange revenue sharing and oversee the venue, which, for the first time, was put out to bid. (Valencia beat out Naples and Marseille, among others, by promising to spend 500 million euros on the event.)
 It is said that Bertarelli won his Cup -- and with it the ability to reconfigure the sport -- mainly by hiring the best match racer in the world to be his skipper. This was Russell Coutts, a lantern-jawed New Zealander who had won the trophy in 1995 (skunking Dennis Conner in the best-of-nine event) and again in 2000. Following Coutts's second victory, Bertarelli reached out to him, saying he was interested in buying one of New Zealand's yachts. The two hit it off and soon after met in a New York City hotel room, where Bertarelli offered Coutts a job. By checkout time, Coutts had agreed to skipper Alinghi, for a salary reported to be $5 million a year. New Zealanders responded to Coutts's career move by branding him a traitor, plastering anti-Coutts billboards in Auckland and issuing death threats. Coutts answered with a five-nil thrashing of his former team. 
 Though the two men have since had an ugly falling out -- reportedly over control of A.C.M. -- the poaching of Coutts rearranged the economics of the sport. ''All of a sudden it became the big leagues,'' explained Peter Isler, BMW Oracle's navigator and a veteran of four campaigns. ''And not just for the Russell Coutts and Dennis Conners and those types of folks, but for the grinders, who were all of a sudden in six figures.'' America's Cup sailors now command as much as $1 million a year, a pay scale that allows wealthy campaigns to corner the market on elite talent, while handicapping poor campaigns.
 In theory, such concentration of free-agent skill makes for better racing (at least in matches between wealthy teams). But it also dilutes a campaign's identity. Should they face each other in the America's Cup, BMW Oracle, the American boat, will likely have only three Americans aboard, including Ellison, and Alinghi, representing Switzerland, will probably have only one Swiss sailor -- Bertarelli. Meanwhile, more than half of the remaining crewmen on the two boats will hail from New Zealand. ''For most teams here the national image is less than the sponsor images,'' said Isler, an American. ''But I would say to all those who cry, 'Crass commercialism, nationalism is gone,' you'll be the first one on the parade when the Cup comes home.''
 The type of Cup fever that manifests as a parade, however, is rare. Most people simply understand too little about the sport to become infected. The teams, well aware of this dilemma, put a premium on newbie education. In Valencia, BMW Oracle maintains a sort of classroom at its base, where visitors receive instruction in boat building, match racing and the various responsibilities of the crew. (Quick lesson: imagine the team as characters in a Pixar film, with the nimble bowmen scampering the foredeck and shinnying the mast; mammoth grinders cranking the winches; and alert and clever members of the afterguard, the boat's brain trust, driving the yacht and orchestrating it all.) The atmosphere is intended to be one part Epcot and one part ESPN Zone, although the kid-pleasing experience suffers when it's time to learn more about Larry Ellison. ''As client/server computing becomes increasingly popular,'' we are told, ''Oracle rolls out Oracle Version 5 . . . one of the first RDBMSs to operate in the server mode.'' At this point the class usually abandons Larry and makes for the Alinghi base, where the educational offerings include an America's Cup arcade game and a full-scale simulator yacht that bucks and pitches and yaws.
 And for most spectators, Alinghi's simulator is as near as they'll get to the action. Last month, in a charity auction, a Chicago businessman paid $102,600 for the right to ride aboard the BMW Oracle yacht during an America's Cup race (if the team makes it that far). As this suggests, proximity to the sport's central drama is usually determined by the thickness of a person's wallet. For $750, fans can purchase seats on one of the spectator boats operated by A.C.M., which bounce along in the distant wake of the competitors. A private yacht ensures a better spot in the spectator flotilla, and one can be chartered for the duration or, of course, purchased outright -- although berthing fees at the Port America's Cup ''superyacht'' marina can approach a million dollars. 
 The easiest route to a decent vantage point is to own or be employed by a sponsoring corporation, which can land you on a team's hospitality boat. One afternoon, I finagled my way aboard Alcor, the 115-foot yacht that BMW Oracle uses for entertaining, and spent an impossibly pleasant day on the water, eating tournedos of Argentine beef and drinking champagne, while the captain kept us within spitting distance of the racers. Such plums are portioned out to high-powered executives or to whatever celebrity ambles through Valencia -- Demi Moore was a recent recipient. On other teams they serve as management perks, used by a sponsor to reward star performers. After scoring an invitation to the Alinghi hospitality boat, I found myself surrounded by several dozen mid-level managers from UBS, the Swiss financial-services firm that sponsors Alinghi.
 To prepare the bankers for their role as America's Cup fans, Jochen Schuemann, Alinghi's sports director and one of its helmsmen, gave a seminar on match racing. Schuemann, a commanding three-time Olympic gold medalist, loomed over a small whiteboard, carefully diagramming match strategy and the tactical geometry that a skipper might employ during a race. Fifteen minutes into this tutorial, one of the bankers shot up his hand. 
 ''Which is starboard again?'' he asked.
 ''Alinghi'' is a nonsense word, invented by Ernesto Bertarelli as a child. In past interviews he has said that he simply enjoyed the sound it made. Of late, he claims the word is a brand, connoting freedom, determination, partnership and cutting-edge technology. (As you might suspect, Bertarelli is a business school graduate.) Because brands require visuals, Bertarelli commissioned a logo in the form of a stylized letter ''a,'' its serif stretched into a pair of circling yachts, representing the portion of a match known as a pre-start. America's Cup racers attach an almost mystical importance to the pre-start. Often described as a boxing match, it more closely resembles a game of musical chairs with mixed-up rules: rather than sprinting to the center when the music stops, the boats break frantically for the starting line, each hoping to nab the side with the better wind.
 As the current champion, Alinghi did not participate in the Louis Vuitton Cup, having earned a sort of bye. Thus its last opportunity to compete one-on-one against the competition was in a series of races held in Valencia almost a year ago, known as Act 12. In one of Alinghi's last matches of this act, it happened to face New Zealand. Most veteran Cup handicappers I spoke to in Valencia believed that New Zealand would win the Louis Vuitton Cup, and thus meet Alinghi in a rematch of 2003. Should New Zealand win back the America's Cup -- and with it the Deed of Gift -- the speculation is that the team will undo the many changes made by Bertarelli over the past four years. This subtext injects a certain zing into contests between the two teams, and the Act 12 pre-start featuring the two boats was typically dramatic.
 Dean Barker, a 34-year-old Tom Brady look-alike, skippers New Zealand. In 2003, Barker helmed the New Zealand boat when it lost the Cup; lately, however, he has had success, winning half of his races against Alinghi. With less than 60 seconds remaining in the pre-start, and the boats circling warily, Barker abruptly tacked, taking Alinghi by surprise. He swept behind the Swiss boat, timed the starting gun perfectly and secured the favored side of the course. Alinghi broke for the line as well. Soon the boats, as the race announcer described it, were ''stuck together like a piece of bungee.'' 
 Brad Butterworth, an avuncular New Zealander who had been Russell Coutts's second-in-command and is now Alinghi's skipper, inched closer to Barker. (Bertarelli, by the way, is a runner/grinder on the boat -- a situation roughly analogous to Mark Cuban playing power forward for the Dallas Mavericks.) The skippers carved their way upwind, pursued by a chaotic armada of spectators. When they rounded the windward marker, New Zealand held a lead of eight seconds.
 In racing, the object is not to go fast, exactly, but to make your opponent go slow. One weapon skippers use to achieve this is their boat's wind shadow: the pie-shaped wedge of disturbed air that spills off a yacht. On upwind runs the leading boat uses this weapon to spoil the trailing boat's air. On downwind legs the advantage flips, and the trailing boat tries to steal the leading boat's wind. What typically follows in such situations is a tacking duel, a spectacular stretch of action in which one boat veers wildly, attempting to break free of the other. A duel can require as many as 50 tacks in a single leg, rocketing grinders' heart rates to 200 beats per minute and severely testing a crew's stamina. Boats also suffer horribly, struggling to remain intact as their massive sails fight the 20-ton keel. Yachts signal their distress with a loud array of cracks and pops, and with long, mournful moans. ''They really cry for help, these boats,'' said Christoph Erbelding, an engineer with BMW Oracle. (After a ride aboard an American boat in 2003, Robin Williams remarked that the sound was like that of ''an old man trying to have sex.'')
 Races are 14 miles, with four roughly equal legs. They last about 75 minutes. Alinghi and New Zealand clashed for almost an hour, speeding down the course, rounding and fighting their way upwind, then rounding a final time. In theory, an America's Cup race tests the skill of the crew (on the upwind legs) and the speed of the boat (on the downwind runs). But the reality is more simple, as Koch explained: ''Only fast boats win. And the team that wins is not the most brilliant, but the one that makes the fewest mistakes.''
 As it prepares to defend the Cup, Alinghi drills six days a week, on the water and in the classroom, learning how to react to every conceivable racing situation. Team members practice a method of speaking on the boat, using specific syntax and shifts in tone to signal changes in tactic or an increased level of urgency. They codify a system of making decisions, so that if the strategist clinging to the mast 90 feet in the air spots a stain moving across the water, his message that the wind is about to shift will speed without error through the crew's nervous system and arrive at its brain. ''Nothing's taken for granted,'' Alinghi's John Russell, a boat builder, told me. ''Everything's checked off, everything's looked at, everything's investigated. It's a pretty clinical kind of a team.'' 
 All the while, Alinghi's scientific advisers -- a Ph.D.-laden bunch from Geneva's renowned Acole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne -- works to replicate George Steers's feat from 146 years ago. (''It's a technology contest,'' one Cup veteran said. ''As it has been since 1851.'') The trick is to build a boat forever on the verge of breaking. ''To make it as light as possible,'' BMW Oracle's Erbelding explained, ''but as strong as possible, too.'' Teams construct their boats to suit the conditions that historically prevail at the venue. But weather is increasingly fickle and forecasting imprecise. In 2003, New Zealand staked the Cup on a boat designed to sail best in light wind and flat water. Conditions, however, turned out to be atypically harsh. During the first race, New Zealand's boat took on so much water it almost sank. In the fourth race, the mast snapped. In the fifth race, the spinnaker broke. Alinghi arrived in Auckland with a boat that happened to be better for the conditions as they existed at that fleeting moment. Because of this good fortune, Bertarelli won his Cup.
 Ten minutes offshore of Valencia, Alinghi and New Zealand entered the final leg of their match. Barker had fought Alinghi through three-quarters of the race, and still held a boat's length advantage. Both crews struggled to find hidden speed. ''Expect kitchen sinks and all sorts to be thrown!'' the announcer said.
 The boats had sailed far to the opposite sides of the course, hunting clear air. Now they turned toward each other, roaring at full power toward a likely collision. 
 ''Last-chance leg!'' the announcer cried. ''What happens now?'' 
 Bertarelli was poised at his station, calmly focusing his breath before the final charge.
 ''Here they go!''
 Alinghi bore down on New Zealand from the starboard side, the boats almost close enough to touch, Butterworth pressuring Barker to make a move. New Zealand jibed to block, but Alinghi countered perfectly and slid smoothly past. New Zealand's crew scrambled to regain its advantage. Races hinge on the most minor of miracles -- a shift of wind, a slip of a hand. Barker's boat began to slow. 
 ''Crew error!''
 A moment later New Zealand's spinnaker spilled its air, sagging sadly from the mast. Alinghi sped across the finish line. ''That's the first time the pressure has gotten to the New Zealand team,'' the announcer said. ''Brilliant sailing by Alinghi.''
 The America's Cup is the only sport in which a team, if it fails to win the championship, often ceases to exist. (Imagine 31 N.F.L. teams disbanding after the Super Bowl.) Historically, only about one in 10 campaigns continues after a loss. The others vanish, their accounts emptied and syndicates dismantled. Cup historians speak of a ''curse of the America's Cup.'' Men who failed in their quest have lost their families and their fortunes. At least two have committed suicide. ''It's such a public event,'' Bill Koch explained. ''And when you lose, it breaks you.'' Larry Ellison has said, ''All these guys are not exactly having fun. This is extremely stressful stuff. It is a lot more fun to watch than it is to do.'' One team's psychologist told me, ''It's four years of their lives. And it all comes down to whether you win a race or not. That's a terrible thing.''
 Early one morning in Valencia, I went to see Bertarelli at the Alinghi base. He was seated at a low white table set with fresh strawberries and cream, orange juice and croissants. Bertarelli didn't eat anything, merely sipping his coffee while he piloted a strawberry on a plate.
 ''The last time,'' he said, ''winning the Cup was a bonus. This time there is no other alternative but winning. No matter how well we would have done in regard to many other aspects of our campaign, we would still be judged a failure. It's what makes sports what it is. It's binary -- you win, you lose. Here, you win, you're on top of the world. You lose, you're nothing. You're gone. You don't exist anymore.''
 Bertarelli's summary seemed a little dire, as did the other all-or-nothing sentiments voiced by those teams who truly expected to win the Cup. It got me wondering. A few weeks after I left Valencia, I sent an e-mail to Xavier de Lesquen, to see how he and his Chinese friends were faring. His reply arrived in the middle of the night. ''Part of the team has left,'' he wrote. ''We keep at Valencia a core team of people to operate the base and welcome the guests. Maybe some days of sailing on Longtze with guests. . . .
 ''As far as I am concerned -- In Valencia until end of the AC, then jump to Brittany, my home place, to enjoy the life in my small house in front of a lonely beach with my old wooden dinghy. . . .
 ''Kind Regards! Xavier.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (PHOTOGRAPHS: LEFT, BY FERNANDO BUSTAMANTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RIGHT, BY MIKE HEWITT/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. 58)
HEY, SAILOR! ERNESTO BERTARELLI, ALINGHI'S OWNER AND DECKHAND
 THE GOOD LIFE IN PORT AMERICA'S CUP. PRECEDING PAGES: LOWERING THE SPINNAKER ABOARD SWEDEN'S VICTORY CHALLENGE AND ALINGHI IN PURSUIT OF EMIRATES TEAM NEW ZEALAND, IN APRIL. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLIAN LAUB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pgs. 60,61) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (89%); SAILING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BOATING & RAFTING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (71%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); SPAIN (91%); MEDITERRANEAN (88%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



83 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Genius and Misfit Aren't Synonyms, or Are They?

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE story of the college dropout who became the world's richest man still has the power to inspire us. It affirms our deeply engrained view that rejecting the received wisdom (do my own thing!) is a path to creativity and wealth.
 As Walt Whitman famously wrote 150 years ago, ''I celebrate myself, and sing myself.'' In our individualistic country, the strong, lone voice is often viewed as the animating force behind every kind of success. 
This drive appears to power many technological innovators. In an era where one-size-fits-all solutions take hold for reasons of efficiency and winner-take-all economics, ''misfits can thrive, because start-up companies are how misfits express themselves,'' says Howard Rheingold, the author of ''Smart Mobs,'' which is about how the Internet allows strangers to act in concert.
 Google, the hottest company on the planet as measured by media ink, is one of the latest examples of the power of the misfit. One co-founder, Larry Page, is enamored with the notion of ''space elevators.'' The other co-founder, Sergey Brin, is using $3.9 million of Google's money to finance a genetic mapping company started by his wife. The two men are said to have outfitted a private company jet with hammocks and king-size beds. In short, these billionaires are hardly men in gray flannel suits.
 I come today to praise the misfit innovator, ''the loser now,'' in Bob Dylan's venerable lyric, who ''will be later to win.'' 
 Back to the dropout (from Harvard, no less), who is, of course, Bill Gates, a co-founder of Microsoft. His story is repeated again and again by weary innovators facing failure and by fresh-faced geeks just striking out for the endless frontier.
 ''The Gates example is so interesting because we Americans like to tell stories that remind us that establishments are close-minded,'' says David A. Hollinger, a historian at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 The identification of technological innovators who have a rebellious streak -- resenting and resisting established authority and its prejudices -- took root in the 1960s counterculture. The '60s-inspired inventors of personal computers and software, like Mr. Gates and Steven P. Jobs, co-founder of Apple (and an outright hippie in his youth), were bent on destroying a technological priesthood that stifled innovation. 
 At first, ''I never expected to amount to anything,'' says Steve Wozniak, who was languishing as a low-level engineer at Hewlett-Packard when he teamed up with Mr. Jobs to design Apple's first computer. 
 Alienated by Hewlett-Packard's emphasis on large, expensive and forbidding technical systems, Mr. Wozniak took hardware that was used to power toys and calculators and created a rival approach, personal computing, that ultimately took over the world. ''All the ideas that mattered to me came from outsiders,'' he recalls. 
 While inventive, these men did not create their sensibility out of whole cloth. They received a crucial assist from a historian of science named Thomas Kuhn, whose seminal 1962 book, ''The Structure of Scientific Revolution,'' neatly mapped the anti-establishment landscape of innovation.
 Kuhn's central insight, which fast became a cliche, was to identify ''paradigm shifts'' as the key to advances in science and technology. 
 Scientific world views were belief systems first and proved empirically only later. Facts had meaning only in relation to a ''world view.'' When world views were overthrown by rebels, new paradigms could be constructed, opening the way for new theories, new facts, new technologies. 
 As the London-based writer Ziauddin Sardar has noted, in the popular mind, Kuhn reduced science to ''nothing more than long periods of boring conformist activity punctuated by outbreaks of irrational deviance.''
 For people like Mr. Gates and Mr. Jobs, Kuhn's attack on conformity in science and technology provided a moral and intellectual foundation that still survives. 
 Echoes of the Kuhnian sensibility can be heard around any corridor in Silicon Valley, any day of the week. In fact, misfits now rule Silicon Valley and its sibling, Seattle.
 Sean M. Maloney, chief of sales and marketing at Intel, reminded me of this last month as he recalled a dictum that Andrew S. Grove, the company's former chairman and chief executive, often invoked. When everyone says that something is true, be very skeptical, Mr. Grove advised. Question the obvious.
 THAT is easier said than done, especially when corporations become so invested in their own ''paradigm'' that they grow blind to signs that ''the times they are a-changin'.'' How else to explain that Mr. Gates, writing in the first edition of his 1995 treatise on the future of computing, made no mention of the Internet, the very force that began to disrupt (and is still disrupting) his company's core business from virtually the day the book appeared? 
 Similarly, Google must struggle to avoid falling so much in love with its wildly successful online search and advertising technologies that it misses the next inevitable and disruptive paradigm shift. ''The reality is that world-changing amounts of money are earned by people who question orthodoxies,'' Mr. Maloney said.
 Does this mean the misfit is always worth betting on? Not really. The often-ignored side of the Kuhn theory is that for long stretches of time, the frontier of science and technology is ruled by diligent people who are quietly filling in the grand vision that spawned a new paradigm in the first place. 
 These people are heroes of their own sort, keeping the home fires burning until the reigning paradigm is played out. ''The celebration of misfits promotes a worrisome anti-intellectualism and presents a distorted picture of the innovation process,'' says Mr. Hollinger, the historian. 
 Indeed, technological innovation -- not to mention new scientific knowledge -- is increasingly a result of large teams, working in routine, predictable ways. Individuals matter, but their contributions often can no longer be measured, nor can credit be accurately apportioned -- even by the people working closest with them. 
 Perhaps the steady rise in power by faceless teams of engineers, technicians and scientists explains the persistent romantic appeal of the lone misfit. 
 By any measure, successful misfits are the exception, and there is no handy tool for distinguishing the next college dropout with a bright and wealthy future from the dropout who faces a heap of woe. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James Yang) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HISTORY (72%); STARTUPS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (51%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); APPLE INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (82%); BILL GATES (78%); SERGEY BRIN (52%); LARRY PAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



84 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: First, Cure Malaria. Next, Global Warming.

BYLINE: By JASON PONTIN. 
Jason Pontin is the editor in chief and publisher of Technology Review, a magazine and Web site owned by M.I.T. E-mail: pontin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AMYRIS BIOTECHNOLOGIES has almost finished developing a cheap cure for malaria that could save the lives of millions of the poor. Now, using the same technology, this start-up in Emeryville, Calif., wants to create new biofuels that may help save the planet.
 Even in an industry much attached to hyperbole, few companies have excited such high hopes. Investors include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which granted the Institute for OneWorld Health $42.6 million to finance Amyris's antimalarial drug, and two princes of Silicon Valley venture capital, John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and Vinod Khosla of Khosla Ventures, who, with the private equity group of Texas Pacific Group Ventures, invested $20 million.
Explaining his interest in the start-up, Mr. Khosla told me: ''Amyris was using a very sexy technology and applying it in a radical way to malarial drugs. When I asked the question, 'Can you do the same for energy?' the surprising answer was, 'Yes, we can.' ''
 Mr. Doerr said he thought that green technologies ''could be the largest economic opportunity of the 21st century.'' He called Amyris ''the best team to do this kind of work.'' 
 Amyris's technology derives from the research of Jay D. Keasling, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, and the director of the synthetic biology department of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. Mr. Keasling's lab is widely credited with making commercially practical an emerging technology called metabolic engineering.
 Until recently, genetic engineering of the sort associated with traditional biotechnology has been limited to modifying a cell's processes by inserting, mutating or deleting a single gene or a few significant genes. Genetic engineering has coaxed microorganisms like the common bacterium E. coli to produce drugs like human insulin, but has produced little else besides such protein drugs and a few antibiotics. 
 Mr. Keasling's metabolic engineering is farther-reaching and, potentially, much more productive. His lab has invented techniques that rewrite the metabolisms of microorganisms. By modifying the structure of a microorganism's proteins and adding genes from other organisms, Mr. Keasling has designed microbial factories that can produce a tremendous variety of drugs, biofuels and other chemicals.
 Amyris was founded in the summer of 2003 by Mr. Keasling and three young postdoctoral students from his lab: Neil Renninger, Kinkead Reiling and Jack D. Newman. They received the large grant from the Gates Foundation a little more than a year later. 
 To create an antimalarial drug, Amyris engineered bacteria to excrete a drug called artemisinin. Artemisinin is 100 percent effective against malaria, but it derives from a weed called sweet wormwood that only grows in China and Vietnam and costs $2.40 for a course of treatment -- a steep price for the world's poor. 
 Every year, 300 million to 500 million people become infected with malaria, according to the World Health Organization; more than 1.5 million of those infected will die, most of them children in Africa and Asia. Amyris's technique would reduce the cost of artemisinin to less than 25 cents for a course of treatment, according to the company. OneWorld Health, a nonprofit pharmaceutical company, has pledged to give away the drug to poor countries. Amyris says the drug will be ready for mass production in 2008.
 It wasn't until January 2006, when a presentation by Mr. Keasling at the World Economic Forum in Davos caught the attention of Mr. Doerr and Mr. Khosla, that Amyris's founders began to consider seriously what other compounds their bioengineered bugs might produce. The two venture capitalists encouraged the scientists to think ambitiously.
 ''At nights and on weekends we'd been working on what our for-profit projects could be at the end of the Gates grant,'' Mr. Reiling, the company's vice president for development, told me. ''One of those projects was using our engineering know-how to come up with novel biofuels.''
 Mr. Doerr said: ''When I met them, it was truly an open question. Should they work on other pharmaceuticals? Chemicals? And while my passion -- and theirs -- was for fuels and solving global warming, it wasn't at all obvious that they could make a better fuel.'' 
 Cheap biofuels could eliminate or reduce the use of the fossil fuels whose combustion contributes to climate change. So far, most biofuel ventures have tried to create better ethanol fuels by converting different kinds of ''biomass'' -- everything from corn to sugar cane to switchgrass and jatropha trees -- to fermentable sugars. These sugars can then be brewed and distilled into conventional ethanol. 
 Amyris chose to ask something more basic and more interesting: What would perfect fuels look like if they were designed from scratch? The start-up decided to concentrate on the second stage of creating a biofuel: fermenting sugars into fuel.
 The company wanted chemical compounds that could be fermented from sugars derived from any biomass. The fuels had to have an energy content higher than ethanol and be useable in today's automobile, diesel and jet engines. Finally, the company wanted fuels that were insoluble in water, and hence could be transported through the same pipelines that now move oil. 
 Over the last year and a half, Amyris has created in its labs microorganisms whose metabolic pathways are yielding alternatives to diesel, jet fuel and gasoline. Now the company is working to make the conversion from sugars to fuel more efficient. 
 ''If you can get above 90 percent efficiency, you're competitive with ethanol and oil,'' Mr. Reiling explained.
 Most synthetic biologists familiar with Amyris's research say that while the company may have created some promising compounds, the real challenge will be achieving these efficiencies of conversion. 
 Mr. Doerr expresses the economics more bluntly. ''If you're smart enough,'' he said, ''you can make a better fuel. But to have a business, you have to make it at the right yield and at the right cost.'' Mr. Doerr says he believes Amyris's fuels will need to cost around $30 a barrel (at the moment, less than half the price of crude oil).
 Some environmentalists worry that the adoption of biofuels could lead to the diversion of agricultural land from food to biomass production, raising food prices and further despoiling the environment. In March, the British environmental activist George Monbiot warned in The Guardian that government programs to encourage biofuels were ''a formula for environmental and humanitarian disaster.'' There is some justification for such worries. Earlier this year, increases in the price of maize, caused by swelling demand for corn for ethanol production, led to food riots in Mexico. 
 But Amyris's fuels can be fermented from sugars derived from a variety of feed stocks, including switchgrass and jatropha, that are grown on marginal soil that cannot be used for food production. So cultivation of such crops in poorer parts of Africa and Asia might represent an enormous economic opportunity for the regions' farmers. 
 Amyris's new chief executive, John G. Melo, who was previously British Petroleum's president for fuel operations in the United States, said that Amyris plans to begin selling biodiesel in 2010, and biofuel replacements for jet fuel and gasoline sometime after that.
 Mr. Melo would not explain in detail how Amyris planned to sell its products. He says the biogas and biodiesel may be sold, blended with gasoline, in gas stations (as ethanol is sold today). But Mr. Melo said he hoped to sell biofuels through alternative channels like large retail chains like Costco. Richard Chavez, a senior vice president of Costco, confirmed that he and Mr. Melo are discussing using Amryis biofuels as an alternative to ethanol for blended fuels. Most intriguing, Mr. Melo also suggested that the Virgin Group, with which Amyris has been negotiating, might sell the start-up's biofuels under its own brand. 
 WHILE it is Mr. Melo's job to make Amyris into a big business, Mr. Doerr says the company's scientists are not motivated solely by a desire to enrich themselves; instead, they are excited about Amyris's innovative science and the importance of curing diseases and developing renewable fuels.
 ''They haven't been entrepreneurs before and so there's a nobleness and commitment they bring to these problems that I find really inspiring,'' Mr. Doerr said. ''If you told any of them, 'Guess what? You'll only make one-tenth of what you might,' they would continue to do this work.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil Renninger, left, and Kinkead Reiling are among the founders of Amyris Biotechnologies. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (89%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); BIOLOGY (87%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (87%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (86%); BACTERIA (86%); BIOCHEMISTRY (86%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (76%); ANTIBIOTICS (75%); BIOFUELS (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (70%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); E COLI (62%)

COMPANY: AMYRIS INC (84%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (71%); TPG CAPITAL LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

TICKER: AMRS (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (71%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (74%); VINOD KHOSLA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



85 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Preston Martin, 83, Economist And Former Fed Vice Chairman

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 2 

 BODY:
Preston Martin, the onetime No. 2 officer at the Federal Reserve who advocated for fair lending practices, died Wednesday at his home here. He was 83.
 The cause was cancer, a stepdaughter, Margaret Lowrie Robertson, said. 
Mr. Martin served as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board from 1982 to 1986. He was also the first central bank governor appointed by President Ronald Reagan. He had been California's top savings and loan regulator when Mr. Reagan was the state's governor.
 President Richard M. Nixon named Mr. Martin chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, a government agency providing financing to savings and loans.
 ''He was a very public man, very interested in low-cost housing for the poor,'' his wife, Genevieve, said in a telephone interview. ''In speeches, he always urged young people to do public service and to take summer jobs with the government -- to contribute.''
 As a federal official in the early 1970s, Mr. Martin helped create Freddie Mac, a government-sponsored agency that bought mortgages and packaged them for sale to investors. After leaving government in 1972, he founded the PMI Mortgage Insurance Company. 
 During his years at the Fed, Mr. Martin was known as a Reagan loyalist who challenged the tough anti-inflation policies of the chairman, Paul A. Volcker. Mr. Martin had been regarded as a possible successor to Mr. Volcker as Fed chairman. But Mr. Volcker was a Wall Street favorite, and Mr. Reagan appointed the economist Alan Greenspan to replace Mr. Volcker in 1987.
 Mr. Martin was also one of the first federal financial regulators to make fair lending a top priority. As chief of the Federal Home Loan Bank, he took a tough stand against redlining, the policy of steering credit away from poor and minority communities.
 He was a member of the board of trustees of Neighborhood Housing Services of America, a nonprofit group, when it was founded in 1974, and he was a founding director of Operation Hope, an economic development organization serving minority communities.
 In addition to his wife and stepdaughter, he is survived by a son, Pier; two granddaughters; two other stepdaughters; and five step-grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); CANCER (72%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); GOVERNORS (56%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); PMI MORTGAGE INSURANCE CO (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%); MURRAY D MARTIN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007



86 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Former Leader Talks of Return To Pakistan, and Maybe Power

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, June 3 

 BODY:
Former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto is stirring up Pakistani politics by quietly talking through intermediaries about a power-sharing deal with the president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, and suggesting in an interview that she could return to Pakistan before the end of the year. 
 Threatened with arrest and dogged by corruption charges, Ms. Bhutto has sat out the last eight years in self-imposed exile in London and Dubai, while still leading what is arguably the country's largest opposition party. In that time, she has seen General Musharraf, her former chief of military operations, seize power in a coup. She has watched the political turmoil build as Pakistanis grow restless under military rule, galvanized most recently by General Musharraf's ouster of the chief Supreme Court justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.
Her party, the Pakistan People's Party, was heavily represented in a peaceful rally for Mr. Chaudhry in Abbottabad on Saturday, just weeks after more than 40 people died in Karachi in clashes related to his ouster. 
 As Pakistan veers toward elections this year, General Musharraf has run into mounting opposition over his plans to seek a second term. Ms. Bhutto, 53, is raising her profile once again and positioning herself as savior of the nation, someone who can lead Pakistan back to democracy and provide a more reliable ally than General Musharraf, whose performance she criticized in fighting terrorism and extremism. 
 Under General Musharraf, she noted, Al Qaeda and the Taliban have used lawless areas of northern Pakistan to regroup and cause havoc in neighboring Afghanistan and within Pakistan itself. Yet Washington continues to support General Musharraf, she said, giving him billions of dollars in assistance since 2001.
 Despite his repeated insistence that Ms. Bhutto will not be allowed to participate in the elections, General Musharraf, according to aides and diplomats, has been conducting discreet negotiations for some kind of deal that would allow her to return and him to stay on as president. The corruption charges, which Ms. Bhutto says are politically motivated, might then be dropped. ''General Musharraf says that he wouldn't allow me back and I interpret that to mean that he would then arrest me and prevent me from having freedom of movement and freedom of speech and freedom of association,'' Ms. Bhutto said in the interview, which took place recently at one of her homes outside Pakistan. ''In any event I'd like to go back, and I'm looking at the window between September and December to do that.''
 To some, the prospect of Ms. Bhutto's return confronts Pakistan with an unsavory choice, one it has faced before. Since its independence in 1947, this nation of 149 million that now has nuclear weapons has alternated between rule by generals who have fronted for a domineering military and civilian politicians who have won an enduring reputation for corruption. They have by turns worn out their welcomes. The country has had no fewer than four Constitutions, four military takeovers of government, and never experienced a constitutional transfer of power. 
 General Musharraf seized power in a coup in October 1999, overthrowing Ms. Bhutto's successor, Nawaz Sharif, who also lives abroad to avoid prosecution on corruption charges. General Musharraf was at that time embraced by much of the population, wearied by turbulent years of short-lived, self-serving civilian governments. Yet today, Ms. Bhutto, part of a storied family dynasty, is probably the most popular politician with national appeal. If allowed to return, she may well be in a position to form the next government and serve again as prime minister, even if General Musharraf remains as president, if both agreed. 
 The daughter of a politician executed by the military, educated at Harvard and Oxford and the first woman to serve as prime minister in the Islamic world, at age 35, Ms. Bhutto captivated supporters in the West as well as many Pakistanis in her early days. She was twice prime minister, from 1988 to 1990 and then from 1993 to 1996, when her personal and political fortunes unraveled.
 She left Pakistan eight years ago under a cloud. She was embroiled in a family feud when her brother, Murtaza, tried to claim leadership of the party their father founded, the Pakistan's People's Party. 
 Her brother was shot dead in 1996. Ms. Bhutto's husband, Asif Ali Zardari, was jailed on suspicion of the murder, though the case was never proved. Ms. Bhutto says the killing was a plot by Pakistani intelligence to divide and weaken her family. 
 That same year, Ms. Bhutto's three-year-old government was dismissed amid accusations of mismanagement and corruption. Three months later she suffered a resounding defeat in elections. While she says the balloting was rigged, the polls also reflected the disillusion and anger of Pakistanis over a deteriorating economy, rising violence and a leadership that many here felt was concerned only with itself. 
 Though she has lived in self-imposed exile since 1999 to avoid prosecution for corruption, she denies wrongdoing. Her party fared badly in the previous two elections, after she and her husband left the country, but it remains politically strong. 
 No date has been set for the next elections, but the voting must take place by the end of the year. ''Ultimately, for the elections to be credible, it is important that the participation should not be denied to a leader of a party, and a party which is the most popular party in the country,'' Ms. Bhutto said.
 For the general's part, after a series of political missteps in recent months, including the suspension of the justice, he finds himself in ever greater need of allies if he is to win re-election by Parliament. Some of his supporters see Ms. Bhutto as the preferred moderate partner. 
 The violence in Karachi that left more than 40 people dead on May 12 occurred after parties backing General Musharraf clashed with members of the Pakistan People's Party and other opponents as the justice flew in to make a speech. After that, Ms. Bhutto declared that all negotiations with General Musharraf were off. But in the interview she made clear that she still wanted to find a smooth transition to democracy. 
 ''The fact that he was ready to engage with the P.P.P. was positive,'' Ms. Bhutto said. ''I think he toyed with the idea of moderate forces getting together.'' Ms. Bhutto presents herself now as a leader who not only can help Pakistan thread a potentially treacherous course back to civilian rule, but also as someone who can stem a tide of extremism, a claim that opponents say she is exaggerating to gain favor in the West. 
 Two battle lines are being drawn in Pakistan, she said, military dictatorship versus democracy, and moderate Islam versus extremism. While General Musharraf is her most obvious foe, she says the elections may also be Pakistan's last chance to choose a moderate path. ''My fear is if we don't act in these elections, by the next elections it might be too late,'' Ms. Bhutto said. 
 ''Anyone who has lived in Pakistan knows very well that there is a group of people who believe in a war against the West,'' she added, referring to religious extremists both in the government's intelligence agencies and in jihadi groups. ''And it is not just that, it is the hatred that they preach.''
 A negotiated transition to democracy remains her preferred option, she said, because violent confrontation could quickly be usurped by extremists. ''If the streets hold sway, then it is anyone's guess who actually captures the movement,'' she said. ''After all, when there was a revolution in Iran, nobody expected the religious parties to triumph.''
 But Ms. Bhutto warned that while General Musharraf may speak in favor of moderate Islam, the advisers and the military and intelligence extremists around him, who hold the strings of power, were working against it. ''The country is actually run by military hard-liners,'' she said. ''It remains my concern that these hard-liners want to destabilize democracy in Pakistan because their agenda is to bring about a soft Islamic revolution,'' she added. ''They are building secretly on their militant cells across the country.'' 
 She pointed out that despite the general's declared policy of leading Pakistan toward ''enlightened moderation,'' Al Qaeda and the Taliban had used northern Pakistan to regroup, and the Taliban influence was seeping into other parts of the country. She said she was appalled that the government had made deals that allow foreign militants sway in parts of the country. She pointed out that the building of madrasas, religious schools that have been used to recruit militants, had increased.
 Critics have long charged that the situation was not wholly different even under her government, when Pakistan backed the Taliban and used Islamic extremist groups as levers against its neighbor, India, in their dispute over the border territory of Kashmir. But Ms. Bhutto defended her government's performance in fighting terrorism, saying that even though she supported the Taliban in their early days, during her time in office there were no Qaeda terrorist training camps in Pakistan, and no terrorist acts anywhere in the world connected to Pakistan. 
 She said she had collaborated with the F.B.I. in the arrest of Ramzi Yousef, the man behind the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, and had cracked down on extremist groups. At least six terrorist plots, including the London transit bombings, have been traced to Pakistan since General Musharraf took power.
 ''Look at what there was in 2002, and see how much worse the situation has got by 2007,'' she said. Despite her alarm, Ms. Bhutto said she believed that the religious extremists in both the intelligence circle and jihadi groups were running out of options. And open and fair elections would show just how little support the religious parties and extremists actually had in the country, she said. ''Elections are important because at the end of the day when we empower the people, the minority extremists will get totally marginalized and sidelined; their strength is being disproportionately blown up,'' she said.
 ''It is a battle for the heart and soul of Pakistan,'' she said. ''It is also a battle for the rest of the Muslim world and the world at large. It is not just Pakistan. What we are doing in Pakistan has much larger implications not only on Afghanistan and India, but in my view for the larger world.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistani prime minister, has been in self-imposed exile for the last eight years. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); COUPS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); AL-QAEDA (65%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (65%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (60%); SUPREME COURTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%) PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



87 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Obama In Second Place

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
One of the lessons journalists should have learned from the 2000 election campaign is that what a candidate says about policy isn't just a guide to his or her thinking about a specific issue -- it's the best way to get a true sense of the candidate's character. 
 Do you remember all the up-close-and-personals about George W. Bush, and what a likeable guy he was? Well, reporters would have had a much better fix on who he was and how he would govern if they had ignored all that, and focused on the raw dishonesty and irresponsibility of his policy proposals. 
That's why I'm not interested in what sports the candidates play or speculation about their marriages. I want to hear about their health care plans -- not just for the substance, but to get a sense of what kind of president each would be. Would they hesitate and triangulate, or would they push hard for real change?
 Now, back in February John Edwards put his rivals for the Democratic nomination on the spot, by coming out with a full-fledged plan to cover all the uninsured. Suddenly, vague expressions of support for universal health care weren't enough: candidates were under pressure to present their own specific plans. 
 And the question was whether those plans would be as bold and comprehensive as the Edwards proposal. 
 Four months have passed since then. So far, all Hillary Clinton has released are proposals to help reduce health care costs. It's worthy stuff, but it's hard to avoid the sense that she's putting off dealing with the hard part. The real test is how she proposes to cover the uninsured. 
 But last week Barack Obama, after getting considerable grief for having failed to offer policy specifics, finally delivered a comprehensive health care plan. So how is it?
 First, the good news. The Obama plan is smart and serious, put together by people who know what they're doing. 
 It also passes one basic test of courage. You can't be serious about health care without proposing an injection of federal funds to help lower-income families pay for insurance, and that means advocating some kind of tax increase. Well, Mr. Obama is now on record calling for a partial rollback of the Bush tax cuts. 
 Also, in the Obama plan, insurance companies won't be allowed to deny people coverage or charge them higher premiums based on their medical history. Again, points for toughness.
 Best of all, the Obama plan contains the same feature that makes the Edwards plan superior to, say, the Schwarzenegger proposal in California: it lets people choose between private plans and buying into a Medicare-type plan offered by the government. 
 Since Medicare has much lower overhead costs than private insurers, this competition would force the insurance industry to cut costs -- making our health-care system more efficient. And if private insurers couldn't or wouldn't cut costs enough, the system would evolve into Medicare for all, which is actually the best solution. 
 So there's a lot to commend the Obama plan. In fact, it would have been considered daring if it had been announced last year. 
 Now for the bad news. Although Mr. Obama says he has a plan for universal health care, he actually doesn't -- a point Mr. Edwards made in last night's debate. The Obama plan doesn't mandate insurance for adults. So some people would take their chances -- and then end up receiving treatment at other people's expense when they ended up in emergency rooms. In that regard it's actually weaker than the Schwarzenegger plan.
 I asked David Cutler, a Harvard economist who helped put together the Obama plan, about this omission. His answer was that Mr. Obama is reluctant to impose a mandate that might not be enforceable, and that he hopes -- based, to be fair, on some estimates by Mr. Cutler and others -- that a combination of subsidies and outreach can get all but a tiny fraction of the population insured without a mandate. Call it the timidity of hope.
 On the whole, the Obama plan is better than I feared but not as comprehensive as I would have liked. It doesn't quell my worries that Mr. Obama's dislike of ''bitter and partisan'' politics makes him too cautious. But at least he's come out with a plan. 
 Senator Clinton, we're waiting to hear from you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); INSURANCE (87%); MEDICARE (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); FAMILY (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); TAX INCREASES (64%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



88 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words

PERSON: Ed Yost 

HEADLINE: Ed Yost, 87, Father of Modern Hot-Air Ballooning, Dies

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Ed Yost, who fastened two propane tanks to what essentially looked like a lawn chair, attached that contraption to a 40-foot-diameter orange-striped nylon balloon and sailed above the Nebraska plain on a brisk fall day in 1960, becoming ''the father of modern hot-air ballooning,'' died May 27 at his home in Vadito, N.M. He was 87.
 The cause was a heart attack, his son Greg said. 
By using propane, rather than the far more combustible hydrogen (witness the Hindenburg disaster), Mr. Yost was the originator of a sport that now has thousands of aficionados around the world. And his feats, often with balloons far larger than that first propane-powered craft, included measuring cosmic rays in the stratosphere, crossing the English Channel and barely missing becoming the first balloonist to traverse the Atlantic -- he came down 700 miles from the coast of Portugal.
 It was on Oct. 22, 1960, on a farm in Bruning, Neb., that Mr. Yost strapped himself into that chair, placed his feet on a dowel dangling from ropes, ignited the propane tanks to heat air that had been pumped by fan into the balloon, and lifted off. The flight lasted 25 minutes, reached 500 feet and covered three miles.
 ''It changed ballooning forever,'' said Becky Wigeland, curator of the National Balloon Museum and the Ballooning Hall of Fame in Indianola, Iowa. ''It started the modern sport of hot-air ballooning.''
 The first human-bearing balloon flight -- in fact, the first human flight in history -- occurred in Paris on Nov. 21, 1783, when Jean-Francois Pilatre de Rozier and Francois Laurent, the Marquis d'Arlandes, lighted a pile of wood and straw on a small platform to lift their silk balloon 500 feet in the air. 
 In the 177 years between that first flight and Mr. Yost's propane-propelled launch, the rare balloonist either pumped helium, at great expense, into the balloon or used hydrogen to heat the fanned-in air. Most people could share the experience only by buying a ride at a carnival, Ms. Wigeland said, and rising ''maybe 20 feet'' in a balloon tethered to the ground. ''Ed's flight showed you could fly from place to place,'' she said. ''Balloon manufacturers got into the business, and now flying hot-air balloons is a growing passion throughout the world.''
 Mr. Yost would eventually hold 26 patents dealing with ballooning equipment, including inflation mechanisms, balloon body structures and gondola designs. In 2003, he was the first inductee into the National Ballooning Hall of Fame, and last year the British Balloon and Airship Club presented him with the Lipton Award.
 Paul Edward Yost, who preferred to be called Ed, was born in Bristow, Iowa, on June 30, 1919. Besides his son Greg, of Houston, he is survived by another son, Dale, of Singapore, and a granddaughter. His wife, Suzanne Robinson, died in 2001. Mr. Yost's first marriage, to Charmian Kilson, ended in divorce.
 After graduating from the Boeing School of Aeronautics in Oakland, Calif., in 1940, Mr. Yost was hired as a civilian employee of the Army and assigned to balloon technology. One device he worked on was a box sealed with dry ice to be lifted by a black balloon that would drop propaganda leaflets into occupied lands when the ice evaporated.
 Mr. Yost was a bush pilot in Alaska for several years after the war. In 1949, he was hired as an engineer by General Mills, which at the time had a high-altitude research division doing contract work for the Navy. In 1952, Mr. Yost's team sent a 3.3 million-cubic-foot balloon into the stratosphere to study cosmic rays; his first balloon had held 30,000 cubic feet of heated air.
 When General Mills stopped working for the Navy, Mr. Yost and three colleagues started Raven Industries, in Sioux Falls, S.D., to work on government contracts; the military was then interested in the potential of balloons to lift equipment behind enemy lines. After Mr. Yost's propane-powered flight, the company also produced balloons for the growing commercial market.
 Mr. Yost did not just manufacture balloons. On April 13, 1963, he and another Raven partner, Don Piccard, became the first hot-air balloonists to cross the English Channel. The flight took three hours and 17 minutes, with the balloon narrowly missing power lines in its rapid descent.
 Thirteen years later, Mr. Yost set records for distance and time aloft in his solo attempt to cross the Atlantic. His balloon -- with a boat-shaped gondola -- flew farther than the distance to Europe, but was blown too far south. Leaving Bar Harbor, Me., on Oct. 6, 1976, Mr. Yost was in flight for 107 hours and 37 minutes and traveled 2,740 miles before hitting the sea 200 miles east of the Azores. The balloon, called the Silver Fox, was featured on the cover of National Geographic.
 Two years later, Ben Abruzzo, Maxie Anderson and Larry Newman completed the first balloon crossing of the Atlantic, landing in France. Their balloon, the Double Eagle II, had been designed by Mr. Yost. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on June 4 of Ed Yost, considered the father of modern hot-air ballooning, referred incorrectly to his use of hydrogen before air inside a balloon was heated with propane. He used hydrogen, which is lighter than air, to fill balloons -- not to heat air that had been fanned into balloons.
 The obituary also included erroneous information from the National Balloon Museum about two of Mr. Yost's balloon flights and the Navy research contract under which Mr. Yost worked, and it referred incorrectly to an associate, Don Piccard. The balloon Mr. Yost flew on Oct. 22, 1960, was not orange striped, it was all white. The Navy research contract that Mr. Yost worked on was held by a company that Mr. Yost and three colleagues from General Mills formed, Raven Industries -- not by General Mills, for which he went to work in 1949. Mr. Piccard, who flew with Mr. Yost on April 13, 1963, in the first hot-air balloon to cross the English Channel, was an employee of Raven Industries, not a partner in the company. On the balloon's descent during that crossing, it flew between newly erected power line poles, but did not narrowly miss power lines, because no lines had yet been strung on the poles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Yost in the Silver Fox in 1976. (Photo by Vera Simons/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (90%); PROPANE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); PATENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

CATEGORY: Astronautics and Aeronautics

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



89 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEW ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN; Mark Landler contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
President Bush's shift last week toward cutting worldwide emissions linked to global warming was greeted with widespread skepticism. But mixed in with the doubts was a substantial dose of support, albeit conditional. 
 To some scientists, officials and experts immersed for years in troubled treaty talks under the United Nations, the president's new plan is a potentially useful tool for gaining new consensus. The plan calls for rounding up the world's biggest emitters of greenhouse gases and, in 18 months, settling on nation-by-nation programs for slowing emissions and on a long-term common goal for reducing them.
The value, those supporters say, comes from working with relatively small groups of countries and industries to iron out particular issues -- say, how to limit tropical deforestation or clean up heavily emitting industries. Such talks could make it easier to find consensus in the formal rounds of United Nations treaty negotiations among nearly 200 nations, they say. 
 But supporters say that will work only if Mr. Bush sticks to his administration's pledge to have its efforts feed into United Nations climate discussions, which resume in Bali in December. They say that the formalized process of treaty making is the only way of assuring accountability. 
 For the moment, skepticism about Mr. Bush's commitment still rules. After all, for six years Mr. Bush insisted the science was too iffy and the costs of change too high to justify more than mild steps to blunt growth in greenhouse gas emissions, which come mainly from using coal and oil, the fossil fuels that underpin modern economies. 
 And his representatives in international climate talks, as recently as last month, rejected any new negotiations under international climate treaties. 
 Nonetheless, David G. Victor, a law professor and director of Stanford University's program on energy and sustainable development, said he was cautiously optimistic that the president's project could help end policy deadlocks. 
 The main forum for common climate policy is the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which set nonbinding goals for cutting emissions to avoid ''dangerous'' climate change, but never defined how much warming was too much. 
 Emissions rose relentlessly, leading to fresh talks culminating in the Kyoto Protocol, negotiated in Japan in 1997 and enacted in 2005, which has binding limits on emissions for three dozen industrialized countries. But those limits expire in 2012. 
 The Kyoto pact was signed under President Clinton but never sent to the Senate for approval, then rejected outright by Mr. Bush in 2001. And the Kyoto Protocol looks easy compared with what comes next. The idea was that after the Kyoto pact each subsequent step in the treaty process would bring stricter and broader limits on emissions. 
 ''Much of the world is skeptical because the Bush administration has such a poor track record on this topic,'' Professor Victor said. ''But on the face of it, this initiative does not undermine Kyoto. If the initiative leads to more serious efforts by the U.S. and by key developing countries, it will in fact breathe life into the whole enterprise aimed at protecting the planet, including Kyoto.''
 Mr. Bush's new proposal starts with a summit meeting in the United States this fall, gathering up to 15 countries responsible for 85 percent of the emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases. Mr. Bush plans to invite several developing countries, including China and India, to the talks; developing countries will soon be the main source of greenhouse emissions.
 By the end of 2008, he said, the countries would forge national plans for slowing emissions from 2012 through 2030 or so, devise uniform methods for measuring progress, increase research and testing of nonpolluting energy options, and settle on a common, but nonbinding, target for eventual large reductions in emissions decades out.
 It is a piecemeal strategy that, in theory, builds the means for curbing the gases from the bottom up.
 In contrast, the strategy pursued by European leaders and environmentalists for the period after 2012 works from the top down, framed around a broader Kyoto-style cap on emissions. European officials have largely panned Mr. Bush's offering, saying it could well undercut talks aimed at new, binding restrictions.
 But some important figures in Europe are tentatively embracing the move by Mr. Bush. 
 Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, the chief climate adviser to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, said the president's bottom-up approach has legitimacy among scientists.
 ''Each nation tries to set up its own road map, with short- and midterm goals for decarbonization,'' he said last week. ''You collect these road maps into a global atlas.'' 
 He and some other climate-policy experts said that both approaches would probably be needed given the wide range of conflicting interests, emissions sources, economic circumstances and energy choices in countries contributing to the greenhouse buildup; deforestation is the main concern in Brazil and Indonesia, vast heaps of coal the main issue in the United States and China, and fast growth in emissions in poorer parts of Europe.
 And on Friday, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon -- who plans his own push on climate action within the United Nations this fall -- endorsed Mr. Bush's proposal, particularly if it is tied into talks aimed at invigorating the treaty. 
 ''I think it is a positive statement, in the sense that the United States, at the level of President Bush, has realized the urgency and importance of climate change,'' Mr. Ban said. ''I hope such an effort by the United States will be mutually reinforcing the international community's efforts, particularly led by the United Nations.''
 James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said the world should embrace several simultaneous efforts to avoid dangerous climate change and at the same time boost nonpolluting energy supplies.
 ''We need it all,'' he told reporters last week. ''And those who suggest there's one approach versus another, they're not facing reality.''
 Still, many say Mr. Bush will have to work hard to overcome strong doubts.
 Michael K. Dorsey, an assistant professor of environmental studies at Dartmouth College, said Mr. Bush would have to show concrete progress in the fall to overcome ''a legacy of stalling, back-pedaling and undermining of international talks.'' 
 ''Give us a press conference to say what you've done yesterday,'' he said. ''Don't tell us any more what you're going to do tomorrow.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DEFORESTATION (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007



90 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: A Point System For Immigrants Incites Passions

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4 

 BODY:
Ekaterina D. Atanasova, a civil engineer from Bulgaria who lives in southern Maine, wants to bring her husband to the United States. Under the Senate immigration bill, he would get high marks -- at least 74 points -- because he too is a civil engineer, has a master's degree and is fluent in English.
 But Herminia Licona Sandoval, a cleaning woman from Honduras, would have no hope of bringing her 30-year-old son to the United States. He works as a driver at an oil refinery, lacks a high school diploma, speaks little English and would fare poorly under the Senate bill, earning fewer than 15 of a possible 100 points.
The point system, one of the most significant features of the Senate immigration bill, will be at the heart of the debate as Congress resumes work on the legislation after a weeklong recess. It has already stirred passions because it would profoundly change the criteria for picking future immigrants. 
 President Bush and some senators champion the point system as a way to select immigrants most likely to make long-term economic contributions to the United States. Supporters say it would be the most systematic effort in the nation's history to evaluate would-be immigrants, using objective criteria to measure job skills, education and other attributes.
 But the plan is provoking strong opposition from leading Democrats, who say it smacks of social engineering and reflects a class bias.
 Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said, ''The point system would have prevented my own parents, a carpenter and a seamstress, from coming to this country.''
 This week, the Senate is expected to vote on an amendment offered by Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, to end the point system after five years. Senators will also vote on a Republican proposal to eliminate ''bonus points'' that could be given to many illegal immigrants who gain legal status and then seek green cards.
 The bill, written by the White House and a bipartisan group of a dozen senators, would establish ''a merit-based system'' to evaluate people seeking the green cards, as permanent-residence visas are known.
 An applicant could receive a maximum of 100 points. Up to 75 points would be allocated for job skills and education, with 15 for English-language proficiency and 10 for family ties.
 The criteria favor professionals with graduate degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. But the point system would also reward people who work in 30 ''high demand'' occupations, like home health care and food service.
 Spouses and minor children of United States citizens would still be allowed to immigrate without limits. But siblings and adult children of citizens and lawful permanent residents would be subject to the point system. They could get a maximum of 10 points for family ties, provided they had already earned 55 points for job skills, education and English language ability.
 Under the bill, Congress would set the number of points for each attribute. The selection criteria could not be changed for 14 years. Decisions on individual cases would be within the ''sole and unreviewable discretion'' of the secretary of homeland security.
 Supporters of the point system say it would make the United States more competitive in a global economy by admitting people with skills needed in the American workplace -- people who might otherwise go to work for foreign companies.
 Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''America needs an immigration system that can compete for the best minds that exist in the world. The new system does it better than the old system.''
 But Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who is chairwoman of the Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said she had found no one in her Silicon Valley district who thought it was a good idea.
 ''The point system is like the Soviet Union,'' Ms. Lofgren said. ''The government is saying, in effect, 'We have a five-year plan for the economy, and we will decide with this point system what mix of skills is needed.' That is not the way a market-based capitalist economy works best.'' 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, has also expressed ''serious objection to the point system,'' saying it could split families. 
 As the Senate resumed debate Monday on the point system and other features of the immigration measure, the leadership explored whether to try to force a final vote by the end of the week or let lawmakers continue to propose changes.
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said, ''We need to have the maximum opportunity for the largest number of amendments to be considered before we entertain the notion of shutting down debate on this important measure.''
 But prolonging debate provides opponents of the measure more opportunity to win changes that could shatter the bipartisan coalition behind it. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a chief Republican architect of the bill, warned of looming ''killer amendments'' on issues like guest workers and family migration that, if adopted, would lead him to oppose the bill. 
 Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader, said he and Mr. McConnell were still trying to devise an end game for the legislation. ''Everyone has been home and has been barraged on all sides of this issue,'' Mr. Reid said Monday.
 The debate has major implications for the economy. About 23 million workers -- one in seven -- were born abroad. In the last decade, foreign-born workers accounted for half of the growth in the labor force. The Labor Department says the nation will need immigrants to meet looming labor shortages.
 Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell University, said: ''A key theoretical advantage of a point system is the ability to respond to changing economic needs. Unfortunately, the Senate bill would lock in the criteria for at least 14 years. The economy changes much faster than that.''
 The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research center, analyzed the likely effects of the Senate bill by examining Census Bureau data. It reached these conclusions:
 Immigrants from many Asian countries would do well. In the last 15 years, more than three-fourths of immigrants from India, and more than half of those from China, the Philippines and South Korea had bachelor's degrees or higher. Most immigrants from India and the Philippines report speaking English well.
 Immigrants from Latin America would ''face more difficulties'' in getting green cards. More than 40 percent of recent immigrants from this region are in the preferred age range, 25 to 39, but many lack educational credentials and English language skills. More than 60 percent of adult immigrants from Mexico have not completed high school. Just 5 percent have college degrees. Only 15 percent of recent Mexican immigrants are proficient in English.
 The United States has received comparatively few immigrants from Africa, but many of them have characteristics that would help them earn points.
 About two-fifths of recent African immigrants are in the preferred age group. Two-thirds are proficient in English. And 38 percent have a bachelor's or higher degree.
 The proposed point system would help people like Ms. Atanasova, who is not yet a citizen, and her husband, Nikola K. Nikolov, both 29 years old. 
 Mr. Nikolov could get 20 points because he has a specialty occupation, an additional 8 points because he is an engineer, 28 points because he has a master's degree in engineering, 3 points because he is in the preferred age group and 15 points because he is fluent in English.
 Reached at his home in Bulgaria, Mr. Nikolov said he believed he could ''manage quite well'' in the United States.
 But the point system would adversely affect people like Ms. Licona Sandoval, the Honduran who cleans government offices at night. ''It will be impossible to bring my son, Jose Lionel Duron Licona,'' she said. 
 Australia, Britain and Canada use point systems. But experts in Australia and Canada said the United States was ignoring lessons that could be learned from their experience.
 Arnold J. Conyer, a lawyer who is president of the Migration Institute of Australia, said it was important to accept some immigrants specifically sponsored by employers, a feature of current law that would be largely replaced by the point system.
 ''Employers with an immediate need can sponsor a particular person for a particular job opening,'' Mr. Conyer said. ''On the other hand, the point system is used to build up a supply of good-quality stock that will be available to Australian employers in the future.'' 
 Howard D. Greenberg, an immigration lawyer in Toronto, said Canada's experience showed the risks of relying too heavily on a point system.
 ''A candidate can succeed under the Canadian point system without having a job offer,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''As a result, we have some professionals, like doctors, who perform low-skill occupations such as driving taxis until they can find more appropriate work.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A point system at the heart of the immigration bill before Congress would bode poorly for Herminia Licona Sandoval, above, but well for Ekaterina D. Atanasova, left. Ms. Atanasova wants her husband to come the United States, and Ms. Licona Sandoval, her son. (Photo by Cheryl Senter for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)(pg. A18) Chart: ''Rating The Immigrants'' The Senate immigration bill would eventually allocate 380,000 visas a year under a merit-based point system. Applicants with the highest number of points, out of a possible 100, could obtain permanent residence visas, or green cards. MAXIMUM POINTS 47: Employment 20: Specialty occupation 16: High-demand occupation 8: STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathemetics) or health occupation 6: Job offer or recommendation from a U.S. employer 2: For each year of work for a U.S. company (10 points maximum) 3: Worker's age from 25 to 39 years 28: Education 20: M.D., M.B.A. or other graduate degree 16: Bachelor's degree 10: Associate's degree 6: High school diploma or G.E.D 8: Degree in STEM or health occupation 8: Completed apprenticeship program 5: Completed Perkins vocational education program 15: English and civics 15: Native English speaker or has score of 75 or higher in TOEFL, an English proficiency test 10: Has a score of 60-74 in TOEFL 6: Pass citizenship tests for English and civics Following can be applied if the applicant has 55 points from categories above: 10: Extended family 8: Adult child of a U.S. citizen 6: Adult child of a U.S. permanent resident 4: Sibling of U.S. citizen or permanent resident (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); HISTORY (51%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); BULGARIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



91 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: When Fakery Turns Fatal

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: WUDI, China 

 BODY:
They might be called China's renegade businessmen, small entrepreneurs who are experts at counterfeiting and willing to go to extraordinary lengths to make a profit. But just how far out of the Chinese mainstream are they? 
 Here in Wudi in eastern China, a few companies tried to save money by slipping the industrial chemical melamine into pet food ingredients as a cheap protein enhancer, helping incite one of the largest pet food recalls ever.
In Taixing, a city far to the south, a small business cheated the system by substituting a cheap toxic chemical for pharmaceutical-grade syrup, leading to a mass poisoning in Panama. And in the eastern province of Anhui, a group of entrepreneurs concocted a fake baby-milk formula that eventually killed dozens of rural children.
 The incidents are the latest indications that cutting corners or producing fake goods is not just a legacy of China's initial rush toward the free market three decades ago but still woven into the fabric of the nation's thriving industrial economy. It is driven by entrepreneurs who are taking advantage of a weak legal system, lax regulations and a business culture where bribery and corruption are rampant. 
 ''This is cut-throat market capitalism,'' said Wenran Jiang, a specialist in China who teaches at the University of Alberta. ''But the question has to be asked: is this uniquely Chinese or is there simply a lack of regulation in the market?''
 Counterfeiting, of course, is not new to China. Since this country's economic reforms began to take root in the 1980s, businesses have engineered countless ways to produce everything from fake car parts, cosmetics and brand name bags to counterfeit electrical cables and phony Viagra. Counterfeiting rings are broken nearly every week; nonetheless, the government seems to be waging a losing battle against the operations.
 Dozens of Chinese cities have risen to prominence over the last two decades by first specializing in fake goods, like Wenzhou, which was once known for selling counterfeit Procter & Gamble products, and Kaihua in Zhejiang province, which specialized in fake Philips light bulbs.
 For a time, people even derided the entire province of Henan as the capital of substandard or fake goods, like medicines that could make you miraculously grow taller.
 But the discovery of dangerous ingredients in foods and drugs has raised more serious questions.
 One such operation is centered here in Wudi, about five hours southeast of Beijing. This is where the trail of the American pet food recall leads.
 Regulators came to Wudi in early May and shut down one of the region's biggest feed exporters, the Binzhou Futian Biology Technology Company. They also detained its manager, Tian Feng, after American officials identified Binzhou Futian as one of two Chinese companies responsible for shipping contaminated pet food ingredients to the United States. 
 Chinese authorities said that Binzhou Futian and a company in bordering Jiangsu province had intentionally doctored feed ingredients to generate bigger profits. Regulators in China called it an isolated incident.
 But agricultural workers and experts in this region tell a different story. They say the practice of doctoring animal and fish feed with melamine and other ingredients is widespread in China. And Wudi, they say, has long been known as a center for such activity.
 ''Wudi became famous for fake fish powder almost 10 years ago,'' said Chen Baojiang, a professor of animal nutrition at the Agricultural University of Hebei. (Fish powder is used as a protein additive to animal feed, including fish feed.) 
 ''All kinds of fillers have been used. At the beginning it was vegetable protein, then urea. Now it's feather powder.''
 In small village workshops on the outskirts of Wudi, residents say hundreds of workers make animal feed doctored with fish scraps and cheap ingredients that are then packaged for sale to unsuspecting farmers and fish farms.
 Much of the fish scrap comes from the nearby Bohai Bay area or imported from Peru and then blended with cheap fillers to bolster profits. 
 ''About 90 percent of the fish powder on the market is fake,'' said Xue Min, who works at the Feed Research Institute, a division of the China Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing. ''When it reaches the customer, he doesn't know how many kinds of filler have been added.''
 But recently, residents say more buyers have turned skeptical of Wudi's fish powder. And that has forced some local manufacturers to switch to vegetable protein and search for new buyers.
 ''Customers are now suspicious about fish powder,'' says Sun Hong Qiang, who operates a fish scrap supplier in Wudi. ''Everyone knows there's some fake fish powder out there.''
 To reach bigger customers, feed producers from Wudi recently began calling themselves ''technology'' companies that sell protein powder. And they are using online trading Web sites like Alibaba.com to sell their goods.
 But few companies here were as successful as Binzhou Futian, which in 2006 won contracts to ship pet food ingredients to major suppliers in the United States and South Africa.
 The American and South African middlemen say that they found Binzhou Futian through online advertisements and commodity-trading Web sites. The companies did not bother to visit Binzhou's factories or to investigate its background or its export record.
 ''I'm not sure of the introduction, but I think it was through Google search,'' said Leon Ekermans, a marketing director at Bester Feed and Grain, a South African grain trader. ''We were told by an intermediary that they were once a government company and made good feed.''
 Asked whether Bester had researched the supplier's record or visited China, Mr. Ekermans acknowledged that the answer was no. ''We tested samples,'' he said, ''but it was very difficult to test for melamine.''
 When investigators from the United States Food and Drug Administration visited China in early May, hoping to determine why melamine ended up in pet food ingredients, they saw little more than a shuttered Binzhou Futian factory.
 ''They've all been closed down, machinery dismantled, nothing to get access to,'' said Walter Batts, an F.D.A. official.
 Binzhou Futian was run by Tian Feng, a small-town entrepreneur who started out producing fish powder but later moved into vegetable protein, according to local residents.
 Mr. Tian's company shared a building with the county government's cereal and grains bureau, an indication of its close ties to the government.
 ''Futian didn't have any actual factory here,'' said a guard who works at the Binzhou headquarters. ''They hung a banner here because they wanted to look good in front of visitors. They had countless suppliers from the countryside.''
 A spokesman for the county cereal bureau, however, denied having any relationship with Binzhou Futian and Mr. Tian, who has been detained by the authorities. Mr. Tian has denied knowing anything about melamine or how it got into the feed he exported.
 And while the government said that it had not found any other companies exporting melamine-tainted goods overseas, regulators shut dozens of fish feed producers near Wudi.
 Investigators say Mr. Tian's company engaged in fraud: it mislabeled its feed exports as nonfeed goods, possibly to avoid food inspection; it also exported tons of pet food ingredients labeled as corn gluten and rice protein concentrate. Actually, they say, it was low-protein wheat powder. Analysts say Binzhou's case is not unusual. This is how the counterfeiting system often evolves, they say.
 For decades, small entrepreneurs have started out counterfeiting in emerging industries in China, seeking an early advantage and their first pot of gold.
 Often, they try to get around regulations, or simply believe small-time cheating that involves adding cheap substitutes or low-grade ingredients will not cause much harm.
 ''Basically, for entrepreneurs, if something is not explicitly banned -- it's not banned,'' said Dali Yang, who teaches at the University of Chicago and has studied China's food safety regulations. ''As long as people are not sick or dying, it's O.K.''
 Experts say counterfeiters are now moving to outlying areas of the country, where it is easier to evade regulation. The counterfeiters are also moving into food and agriculture, which are difficult to monitor because they involve small farmers and entrepreneurs. 
 Small-time entrepreneurs have played the same game over and over with other products, experts say, adding cheap substitute chemicals to toothpaste; using lower-grade materials to produce car parts, batteries and cellphones; and creating factories that specialize in counterfeit goods.
 Last year, for instance, pirates were caught faking an entire company, setting up a ''branch'' of the NEC Corporation of Japan, including 18 factories and warehouses in China and Taiwan.
 ''We have to bear in mind they probably don't think about the consequences at all,'' said Steve Tsang, a China specialist who teaches at Oxford University. ''They're probably only thinking of making a fast buck.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Wudi region of China is known for producing fake pet food. Clockwise, from top left: Bags of fake fish feed at a factory in Tian village on the outskirts of Wudi
a locked storage room at the factory
spilled feed
storage houses for the feed
and equipment at the factory, now closed. (Photographs by Ryan Pyle for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
In January 2005, workers at a thermoelectricity factory in Xuchang, Henan province, unloaded confiscated cigarettes and destroyed them. Henan was once known as the capital of substandard goods. (Photo by China Newsphoto/Reuters)
A vendor in Beijing with a bag intended to look like a product from the luxury retailer Louis Vuitton. Last year, Louis Vuitton won a trademark infringement lawsuit against a Chinese manufacturer. (Photo by Peter Parks/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Fake Viagra that was seized during a raid at a factory in Beijing. (Photo by Peter Parks/Agence France-Press -- Getty Images)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PET FOODS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOOD RECALLS (76%); PRODUCT RECALLS (76%); POISONINGS (75%); TOILETRIES MFG (74%); CHILDREN (74%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (74%); MILK (71%); COSMETICS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (54%); BRIBERY (51%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (94%); HENAN, CHINA (88%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



92 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: China Stocks Extend Loss, Falling 8.3%

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 4 

 BODY:
China's stock markets tumbled again on Monday, worsening one of the biggest sell-offs in years after the government's move last week to impose a higher tax on stock trades.
 There was little effect on markets outside China. Shares in Tokyo and Hong Kong closed up. Stock prices in Europe were modestly lower and in New York a little higher.
 But in China, stocks have fallen by a total of about 15 percent in the four sessions since the government announced last Wednesday that it would triple the stock-trading stamp tax, to 0.3 percent from 0.1 percent. 
 Monday's drop of 8.3 percent in the benchmark index, raised the fear of a wave of panic selling in China's financial markets after an extraordinary bull run in which share prices have climbed by more than 300 percent in the last two years. 
 Indeed, after the authorities in Beijing announced the new transaction fees last week, they have grown increasingly concerned that investors may become too pessimistic.
 And so front-page editorials were published in Chinese financial newspapers calling on investors to act calmly in the wake of the decision, which the editorials argued was intended to promote a healthier development of the stock market.
 ''Investors should be rational and understand the policy,'' The China Securities Journal, one of the government-guided papers, said in its editorial. But markets, as the Chinese are discovering, are not always rational. Indeed, for months officials have been warning investors about the risks of a sharp downturn, trying to calm the markets with official statements. So far, the downturns have been brief. 
 But the most recent trajectories of the country's two main stock markets have been unsettling. On Monday, the Shanghai Stock Exchange index plunged 330.34 points, to close at 3,670.40. The other major index, for the Shenzhen exchange, fell 7.9 percent, to 1,039.90. 
 [The sell-off continued Tuesday morning with shares in Shanghai down almost 6 percent just before midday.]
 Monday's decline, after notable drops two of three days last week, represented one of the largest share price declines in more than a decade and was nearly comparable to the drop late in February, when the Shanghai composite lost 8.8 percent on a single day. That plunge, which came after a huge run-up in prices, touched off a wave of selling around the world, including New York.
 The biggest concern this time seems to be how the gyrating stock market may affect ordinary Chinese. For much of this year, the stock market has been a great concern for the government because of reports that retirees, students and factory workers were plowing much of their savings into stocks, threatening to create a speculative bubble that could end in a damaging and politically explosive crash.
 Many experts have been warning that stock prices are rising much too fast and that stock valuations are far above historical or global norms. Analysts say the government wants to cool the market, but hopes to do so in an orderly way.
 ''This is somewhat expected,'' said Frank Song, director of the Center for China Financial Research at the University of Hong Kong. ''Last week's policy change is a strong signal that the government will no longer tolerate this rising bubble.''
 But many individual investors have been betting on the market's reaching ever new highs because of an influx of just-opened stock accounts, often as many as 400,000 on a single day. 
 A lot of Chinese have indicated belief that the government would not do anything drastic to shake up the stock market before 2008, when Beijing is to play host at the Summer Olympics, out of a fear that a plunge could lead to public protests and even social unrest. 
 Just before the finance ministry's announcement on the trading tax early last Wednesday, officials said there were no plans to increase it. But then they reversed course. Shares tumbled 6.5 percent on Wednesday, then bounced back slightly on Thursday before falling again Friday.
 The reopening of the market after the weekend was a kind of black Monday here, with a further downturn in prices that reversed weeks of huge gains. Few analysts are forecasting a full-scale bear market, but many experts have been warning of more government measures and the end of the boom.
 And there are fears among both government officials and private analysts that a severe downturn in prices can lead to a further rout that would wreak havoc with the finances of ordinary Chinese. 
 Indeed, when the government imposed higher transaction fees on stock trades, investors vented their anger online, and there were reports that several government Web sites, including a finance ministry site, had been hacked into and taken down for a time. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The continued drop in Chinese shares yesterday was noticed not just in Shanghai and Shenzhen, but in interior centers like Wuhan in Hubei Province, where people watched developments on an electronic board. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C4) Graph tracks the Shanghai composite index since Jan. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); HUBEI, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



93 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Cheated of Future, Iraqi Graduates Want to Flee

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Ahmad Fadam and Diana Oliva Cave contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Baghdad, Hilla, Kirkuk, Mosul and Basra.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, June 4 

 BODY:
They started college just before or after the American invasion with dreams of new friends and parties, brilliant teachers and advanced degrees that would lead to stellar jobs, marriage and children. Success seemed well within their grasp. 
 Four years later, Iraq's college graduates are ending their studies shattered and eager to leave the country. In interviews with more than 30 students from seven universities, all but four said they hoped to flee immediately after receiving their degrees. Many said they did not expect Iraq to stabilize for at least a decade.
''I used to dream about getting a Ph.D., participating in international conferences, belonging to a team that discovered cures for diseases like AIDS, leaving my fingerprint on medicine,'' said Hasan Tariq Khaldoon, 24, a pharmacy student in Mosul, in the north. ''Now all these dreams have evaporated.''
 Karar Alaa, 25, a medical student at Babil University, south of Baghdad, said, ''Staying here is like committing suicide.'' 
 The class of 2007 came of age during a transformation that according to students has harvested tragedy from seeds of hope. They are the last remnants of a middle class that has already fled by the tens of thousands. As such they embody the country's progression from innocence to bitter wisdom amid dashed expectations and growing animosity toward the Americans. 
 They said would leave their country feeling betrayed, by the debilitating violence that has killed scores of professors and friends, by the growing influence of Islamic fundamentalism and by the Americans, who they say cracked open their country, releasing spasms of violence without protecting the moderate institutions that could have been a bulwark against extremism. 
 ''I want to tell them thanks for liberating us, but enough with the mistakes,'' said Abdul Hassein Ibrahim Zain Alabidin, a Shiite Turkmen studying law at Kirkuk University, in the north. The errors, he said, ''led to division and terrorism.'' 
 Iraq's roughly 56,000 graduates began their college careers under far different circumstances. With the world's strongest power expected to democratize and modernize their country, they said, they felt special, chosen, about to be famous on the worldwide stage. 
 ''I thought we would be like stars,'' said Ahmed Saleh Abdul Khader, 21, a biology student in the southern city of Basra. 
 ''I was thinking that Iraq would be like Las Vegas, especially Kirkuk, which has oil,'' Mr. Alabidin said. Instead, after an initial period of hope after the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's government, the students said they watched in awe as Iraq's underlying sectarian and ethnic conflicts emerged and flourished. 
 At the country's 21 universities, the decline started with chaos. Looters stole ancient artifacts and destroyed buildings at Basra University, for instance, only days after British troops reached the area in 2003.
 Violence followed. In June 2004, a geography professor at the University of Baghdad was killed after leaving the campus. He would not be the last.
 ''We've lost over 200 professors, being killed,'' said Abed Thiab al-Ajili, Iraq's minister of higher education. ''A number of others have been kidnapped.'' 
 Scores more have fled, he said, leading the perpetually upbeat Mr. Ajili to spend much of his time trying to persuade those still here to stay. It is a particularly difficult task; in November, dozens of ministry employees were kidnapped in broad daylight by gunmen wearing police uniforms. 
 ''I'm not going to say we are in a good position,'' Mr. Ajili said. ''We are surviving. We are trying our best to have an educational system to be as good as we can.'' 
 Students said Iraq's university system had significantly declined, dragged down by chronically canceled lectures and decrepit equipment, all in an atmosphere of growing terror and violence. 
 Mr. Alabidin said his class of law students in Kirkuk had shrunk to just 30 at graduation, from 85 in 2003, because of the bloodshed and fear. He acknowledged that more Shiites were entering college than before. He was even one of the students who said he did not plan to leave, declaring that ''I am no better than those who have suffered or been killed.'' 
 But he could not contain his frustration with the country his class would inherit. He said he and his friends constantly discussed ''the ugliness of terrorism, the free-for-all of killing in Iraq, Americans' mistakes, the way they humiliate Iraqis, the shameful stance of neighboring countries and the loss of the Iraqi identity to divisions by sect and ethnicity.''
 ''I blame Saddam because he sold Iraq and was behind the coming of the occupiers,'' Mr. Alabidin said. ''I blame the American administration for its mistakes in dealing with Iraqis.''
 The mood was even darker last week at Mustansiriya University in Baghdad. In January, two car bombs and a suicide bomber killed at least 70 people at the school. A month later, a woman laced with explosives blew herself up at the university entrance, killing 40 more. 
 In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, charred metal, bloodied notebooks, glass, fingers and makeup cases littered the ground. Students later buried the detritus of the attack in a courtyard where they regularly gathered.
 The memorial, a mound of dirt with banners containing the names of those who died, now acts as a constant reminder of the horrors this year's graduates have endured.
 ''We even have a mass grave now in the university,'' said a student who would give only his first name, Saif, for fear of retribution. ''Imagine flesh and body parts -- we buried that here at Mustansiriya University. Imagine how bad our situation was.''
 Several students about to graduate said the attacks had only hardened their resolve to complete their studies. Indeed, at a number of universities in Baghdad the class of 2007 has tried to make the best of a difficult situation. 
 At a graduation party at the University of Technology here in April, students sprayed silly string on each other near cardboard simulations of mortar tubes and rockets -- macabre parodies of Iraq's situation. 
 At Baghdad University, students shared jokes about the violence over their cellphones. Graduates from the dentistry department recorded a song with verses that poked fun at each student for his or her quirks. 
 Three of the song's subjects, Mudher Rafid, 22, Ahmed Bahir, 22, and Hasan Haitham, 22, said humor had helped them stay sane through the chaos. On a recent afternoon in eastern Baghdad, speaking English well and wearing T-shirts with brand names like Diesel and Ecko, they said they wished the world would remember that not all young Iraqis wanted to kill one another. 
 They acknowledged that some of their classmates supported jihad against Americans as part of what they called ''the resistance.'' But they said most Iraqi college students did not participate, because they wanted the same things every student wants: a job, a family, a little fun, the opportunity to look cool. 
 Iraq, Mr. Rafid said, ''is like any other country.'' Then he caught himself. ''Well, the bombings aside,'' he said, ''it's just like any other country.'' 
 In fact, he and his peers risked their lives to complete their studies. 
 Mr. Haitham, wiry and soft-spoken, with sensitive eyes, enrolled at Mosul University but transferred to be closer to his family. In Mosul, he said, his car was shot full of holes on his way to and from class. Baghdad is not much better, he said: on some days his mother has seen bodies in the road seconds after dropping him off.
 ''I had a plan one day to have a wife and kids and my own dental clinic,'' he said. ''They were good dreams. They're gone.''
 For most of the past four years, he said, his schedule has been limited to attending school and returning home. His dentistry class has shrunk to 200 students from 315. A Sony PlayStation soccer game -- ''a single-player game,'' he said -- has often been his only companion. 
 For Mr. Haitham and his classmates, the decision to leave Iraq was confirmed by an attack on campus in April. Just before 8 a.m., with a lesson just beginning, a bomb exploded in a locker. 
 Mr. Haitham rushed to the scene and saw a student lying flat on the ground. When he put his hands under the victim's back to carry him to safety, he felt shrapnel and mangled flesh. The blast had torn through the student's organs from behind. 
 ''He couldn't breathe, but he was still alive,'' Mr. Haitham said, adding, ''We carried him to the doors of the college, where he died.'' 
 Another student, the son of a government minister, appeared to have been the target of the attack. He lost four toes. 
 The explosion altered the class's plans. University officials canceled a graduation party, fearing more violence. The students were granted one concession: they could take a class photo. At the event last month, their proud parents snapped pictures as they held up a poster of the student who had been killed. Most mothers and fathers looked relieved to see their children graduating. 
 The wounded student and his family did not attend. It was unclear if he would be able to finish his studies. 
 ''He had just a few days to graduate,'' Mr. Rafid said, ''and they took all this away from him.''
 Mr. Rafid said the decision to leave Iraq was wrenching but unavoidable. ''This is my country,'' he said. ''Of course I will feel sad to leave my family and my friends who cannot go with me somewhere else. But it's my security. It's my life. I think after what I saw, there is no more future here.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraq's universities are no haven from the violence of war. At left, men carried a student at the economics and administration college of Mustansiriya University in Baghdad who had been wounded in a suicide bomb attack in February. At right, on May 13, students walked around large barriers of concrete placed around Mustansiriya to protect against car bomb attacks. The university has been the target of a number of such attacks. (Photo by Ali Yussef/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
(Photo by Kareem Raheem/Reuters)
 Ahmed Bahir, left, and Mudher Rafid are dentistry students at Baghdad University. A classmate of theirs was killed by a bomb in a locker. (Photo by Diana Oliva Cave for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AIDS & HIV (70%); FUNDAMENTALISM (69%); TERRORISM (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); SUICIDE (67%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



94 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: China Issues Plan on Global Warming, Rejecting Mandatory Caps on Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York.

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 4 

 BODY:
With global warming high on the agenda for the world's industrial powers gathering later this week in Germany, China staked out its position on Monday by releasing its first national strategy on climate change, a plan that promises to improve energy efficiency but rejects any mandatory caps on greenhouse gas emissions.
 The 62-page plan, two years in the making, served at least partly as a rebuff to separate efforts by President Bush and European nations to draw China and other developing countries into a commitment to reduce emissions, which was expected to be a focal point at the expanded summit meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations.
China has resisted mandatory reductions in emissions, arguing that it is still a developing country and needs to balance environmental improvements with maintaining economic growth. 
 President Bush, trying to blunt criticism of his own record on global warming, proposed last Thursday a new negotiating framework in which the 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions would meet this fall in Washington. Each country would establish its own targets and plan to slow emissions in the next 10 or 20 years, while the group would work to set a long-term global goal for substantially cutting emissions.
 But some experts say the Bush administration's approach is compromised because, like China, the United States opposes a mandatory cap on its emissions. 
 ''China is not going to act in any sort of mandatory-control way until the United States does first,'' said Joseph Kruger, policy director for the National Commission on Energy Policy, a bipartisan group in Washington. 
 Along with India and other large developing countries, China has long maintained that the established industrial powers need to act first because they built their wealth largely by burning fossil fuels and adding to the atmosphere's blanket of greenhouse gases. 
 ''Our general stance is that China will not commit to any quantified emissions reduction targets, but that does not mean we will not assume responsibilities in responding to climate change,'' said Ma Kai, head of China's powerful economic planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
 The report unveiled by Mr. Ma emphasizes trying to control greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy efficiency by 20 percent by 2010. But, in broad terms, the plan merely restates Beijing's position that mandatory emissions caps are unfair to China and other developing countries still trying to modernize and improve living standards.
 China, with the world's fastest-growing major economy, had been projected to surpass the United States by 2009 or 2010 as the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide, which scientists say cause global warming. But China's coal-based, high-polluting economy is growing so rapidly that the chief economist for the International Energy Agency is now predicting the country could become the global emissions leader as soon as this year. 
 Fatih Birol, the agency's chief economist, warned that China must begin curbing its current rate of emissions. If not, he predicted that within 25 years China's output of carbon dioxide emissions could amount to twice the combined emissions of the world's richest nations -- including the United States, members of the European Union and Japan.
 At his news conference on Monday, Mr. Ma applauded Mr. Bush's proposal but emphasized that any effort in Washington should complement, not replace, the existing framework, including the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, sponsored by the United Nations. Under the Kyoto Protocol, participating industrialized nations are subjected to caps on carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, while developing countries, including China and India, are exempt. 
 The Bush administration rejected the agreement because of those exemptions, and said the cuts would harm its economy.
 Mr. Ma stressed that as a latecomer to industrialization, China had produced only a small fraction of the world's greenhouse gases, and that its current per capita emissions equaled a small fraction of the rate in the United States. 
 Mr. Birol, the I.E.A. economist, agreed that the developed world was responsible for the bulk of emissions and should play a leading role in finding a solution. But he said that no plan could succeed without a major role for China and that making distinctions between ''total emissions'' and ''per capita emissions'' obscured the larger point.
 ''The atmosphere does not make a distinction if it is cumulative or a per capita emission,'' Mr. Birol said in a telephone interview. ''Either way, it is a problem for all of us.''
 The centerpiece of China's approach to controlling emissions is an existing plan that calls for a 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency between 2006 and 2010. Mr. Ma noted that China had passed new laws on environmental protection and energy efficiency, and that factories across the country were beginning to improve. He said fiscal and tax policies were being revised to reward clean industry and punish high-polluting factories.
 But given China's high economic growth rate, the energy efficiency program would, at best, slow increases in emissions rather than reduce them. And it is far from certain that China will be able to meet the 20 percent goal. Under the plan, China should have netted a 4 percent reduction in 2006 in the amount of energy needed to generate each unit of gross domestic product. Instead, environmental officials announced earlier this year that the country had failed to meet that goal. 
 China is heavily dependent on coal, which currently accounts for about 68 percent of its energy. Under the climate change program, China is planning a major expansion of nuclear power, as well as renewable energy sources. The plan calls for renewable energy to account for 10 percent of the country's power supply by 2010. China is also in the midst of a nationwide reforestation program to help absorb greenhouse gases.
 Jonathan Lash, president of the World Resources Institute, said that while it was clear that China was aware of looming climate risks, the central government lacked the legal structures and institutions to enforce a mandatory emissions cap. 
 ''The central government can't control what gets built,'' he said, noting the example of illegal factories for making coke used by the steel industry that were closed and repeatedly reopened.
 James L. Connaughton, the lead White House official on the environment, said last week that a central goal of the Bush administration's new plan is to reach out to China, India, Korea and other fast-growing Asian countries to help eliminate barriers to emissions cuts, including the high tariffs China now charges on imported pollution-controlling technology.
 In return, he said, wealthy countries could offer developing countries new energy technologies created with government research money at a discount. 
 Mr. Connaughton said that one vital tool, particularly given China's exploding use of coal, would be the development of systems for capturing carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas from burning fuel, and pumping it underground. 
 ''China will use four times more coal than the United States by the end of 2020,'' he said. ''We have to accelerate producing power from coal without emissions.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's coal-fired economy is growing so rapidly that it could become the world's No. 1 producer of heat-trapping gases by this year. China derives 68 percent of its energy from coal
 this mine is in Ningxia Province. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NINGXIA, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



95 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Gates Says Arms Go to Taliban, But Iran's Role Is Not Certain

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, June 4 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Monday that Iranian weapons were being smuggled into Afghanistan and into the hands of Taliban fighters, but that it was unclear whether Iran's government was behind the arms shipments. 
 But President Hamid Karzai, standing next to Mr. Gates after the two met at the presidential palace here, seemed little concerned about Iranian meddling in his country. He said relations between Iran and Afghanistan had ''never been as friendly as they are today.''
Mr. Gates's comments about the arms shipments echoed those made by top military commanders in recent weeks. American intelligence officials are trying to determine what role, if any, the Iranian government has had in arming the Taliban. 
 ''There clearly is evidence that some weapons are coming into Afghanistan destined for the Taliban,'' Mr. Gates said. He also raised the possibility that drug smugglers or other criminal networks could be behind the flow of weapons. 
 American officials say that even as Iran pledges its support for the Karzai government, it is possible that it is trying to destabilize its neighbor to the east to tie down American forces in the country. American military officials have said they believe that a large part of the arms shipments has been material to make roadside bombs. 
 Afghanistan is dependent on Iran for economic development and reconstruction projects in the western part of the country, and Mr. Karzai was generous in his praise for Iran, saying, ''It is in the interest of our brothers in Iran to have a stable and prosperous Afghanistan.'' 
 ''We don't have any such evidence so far of the involvement of the Iranian government in support of the Taliban,'' he said. 
 Both men said they were optimistic that NATO-led combat operations since the beginning of the year had significantly impaired the Taliban's ability to carry out large-scale attacks and, in Mr. Gates's words, ''put them off their game.''
 Gen. Bismullah Khan, the leader of the Afghan Army, told reporters after escorting Mr. Gates around a training camp on Monday that the United States had set a goal of having 70,000 equipped Afghan troops in place by the end of next year -- and having the force fully trained three years after that. 
 General Khan, a famous mujahedeen commander who helped defeat the Soviet Union in the 1980s, was asked whether an army of 70,000 was large enough to protect the country, especially with powerful neighbors like Iran and Pakistan.
 He smiled and said that it was not large enough. But then he ended his answer with a phrase his interpreter said could best be summed up by a familiar English expression: ''Beggars can't be choosers.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates yesterday with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. (Photo by Musadeq Sadeq/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (93%); SMUGGLING (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); HAMAD KARZAI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



96 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: In Camden, Campbell Co. Says It May Go if Sears Building Stays

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
For decades after it was built in 1927, shoppers drove to the Sears, Roebuck & Company store on Admiral Wilson Boulevard just beyond the center of town. A colonnaded temple to both commerce and the automobile, the store, in the classical revival style, had a lot with parking spaces for about 600 cars.
 But in 1971, as the middle class fled the city, the store closed, and reopened at a mall in nearby Moorestown. In the years afterward, most of the drivers who stopped by this despondent stretch of freeway were visiting seedy strip joints. And the old Sears building went on to become a car dealership, then an office. Today it is vacant, vandalized and in need of repair.
 Now, amid an effort to revive a city mired in a crippling cycle of crime and unemployment, the Campbell Soup Company, Camden's longtime and most prominent corporate resident, has proposed expanding its presence and transforming the area where the empty store sits into an office park. 
 The soup company is prepared to spend $72 million to improve its headquarters, and has also promised to help lure developers to an adjacent office park with the help of $26 million in state funds. But the company's pledge comes with one nagging caveat: The Sears building, which is listed on state and national historic registries, must come down. If not, Campbell Soup, which has been an enormous presence in the city since 1869, may abandon Camden and go elsewhere.
 Thousands of the city's residents worked at the factory on the Delaware River, producing the famous condensed soup invented by John T. Dorrance, until the plant closed in 1990. The company still employs 1,200 workers at its corporate headquarters here, and its soup cans, which captured Andy Warhol's fascination with the American marketplace, are visible everywhere in this city -- on wall murals, hanging in courthouses and, most prominently, on the front of a downtown baseball stadium.
 Leveraging that reputation, the soup company says it could lure investors to the office park. But the Sears building, with its wide footprint, would thwart the effort, blocking the views of all the proposed development, including a view of the Campbell headquarters, the company said. 
 ''If you're leaving Philadelphia, you would like that office park to be visible for potential occupants,'' said Anthony J. Sanzio, a Campbell Soup spokesman. ''This structure is completely inconsistent with what one would expect in a 21st-century office park.''
 In mid-May, the city's planning board narrowly approved the soup company's application to raze the yellow brick building. Local leaders, ranging from the mayor to the heads of community groups, said it was important for Camden -- one of the nation's poorest cities, according to recent census figures and studies -- to look forward, especially when the past and the present look the way the old Sears building does.
 As if to emphasize that point, in the past few days the front door of the building has been ripped down, exposing the building's moldy innards.
 Those opposed to the demolition are a small but committed group that includes a former owner of the building, preservationists, a local activist, a Camden historian and the head of the local N.A.A.C.P. branch. They have asked questions about a city's connection to its past, and about the influence of corporations on development.
 ''I'm not submitting to blackmail from anyone,'' said Frank Fulbrook, an activist here who has a filed a lawsuit against the soup company as well as the heads of the local planning board and the redevelopment agency, saying the planning board violated procedures when it approved Campbell's demolition plans.
 ''I want Campbell's to stay, but I'm not going to beg them,'' said Mr. Fulbrook, who owns a few properties in Camden.
 For the city, the importance of the company -- the only Fortune 500 corporation operating here -- is hardly disputed. In fact, it is spelled out in the development agreement for the proposed 110-acre office park, which notes that the soup company is one of the largest taxpayers in Camden and contributes millions to local charities. 
 In its odd but not-so-subtle vernacular, the agreement spells out the stakes: It says that if the soup company ''were to relocate its headquarters out of the city, it is probable that these numerous public benefits derived by citizens of the city, county and the State of New Jersey would be severely reduced if not eliminated.''
 The importance of the faded Sears building, surrounded by abandoned buildings, overgrown lots and roads riddled with potholes, is less clear. But Paul W. Schopp, a consultant hired by the building's previous owner -- who in 2000 wrote the successful application for its designation as a historic site -- sees it differently.
 Mr. Schopp said that Charles W. Leavitt, a New York landscape architect and planner, conceived the whole area in the 1920s around what was then called Bridge Boulevard, as what he hoped would be Camden's civic center. And Mr. Leavitt insisted that the architects design the Sears building accordingly. 
 ''He designated it in the classical revival style, as an interpretation of the City Beautiful movement,'' Mr. Schopp said. ''They acquiesced.'' 
 The architects, Nimmons, Carr and Wright, had designed other Sears stores, including landmark buildings in Chicago and Boston that have been preserved. Their Camden store, a few miles from the Benjamin Franklin Bridge linking Camden to Philadelphia, was a destination for drivers at a time when America's love affair with the automobile was blossoming. In the 1930s and '40s, families from southern New Jersey and Pennsylvania flocked to the nation's first drive-in theater, on nearby Crescent Boulevard, and to the Whoopee Coaster, a Depression-era amusement for automobiles and passengers on undulating wooden tracks.
 ''There was a drive-in boxing arena, and White Tower, a drive-in restaurant,'' Mr. Schopp said. ''At one time, the Admiral Wilson Boulevard was a source of car culture, perhaps more so than Los Angeles.''
 The supporters of Campbell's plans have focused not only on the importance of keeping the food giant in the city, but also on picking battles wisely as the city makes hard choices.
 ''Look, if it was a beautiful building downtown, that would be one thing,'' said Caren S. Franzini, the chief executive of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority. ''It creates new tax ratables in the city. It enhances a neighborhood in terms of new development. It provides opportunities for new jobs for Camden residents. Those are all fantastic things.''
 In addition, Thomas P. Corcoran, the president of the Cooper's Ferry Development Association, which focuses on the city's waterfront, said that the soup company's demands, despite what detractors say, were not unreasonable. ''I think if I were Campbell's, I would insist on the same thing,'' he said of the building's demolition. ''They've got to present a vision of the future.''
 The shaping of that future is still bitterly contested in Camden. Some opponents of the demolition have also complained about the proposed office park, saying it will create an enclave of nonresident workers rather than employing locals. 
 They have urged the city to take a closer look at other options, like the bid by the businessman Ilan Zaken, who is trying to create an outlet of his Dr. Denim clothes store in the old Sears building. ''It would employ more than 100 people, most of them Camden residents,'' Mr. Zaken said, adding that he hoped the office park would be built.
 There have been other recent attempts to demolish the building, including an unsuccessful effort in 2000 by Gov. Christie Whitman, who sought to clean up Admiral Wilson Boulevard, which had become an eyesore.
 For now, Mr. Fulbrook's lawsuit and several other obstacles could get in the way of the Campbell plan. The state's Historic Sites Council will make a recommendation to the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection for a final decision. And the Camden City Council may still have to vote on parts of the plan.
 Howard Gillette Jr., a historian and a professor at Rutgers-Camden, who opposes the demolition, said: ''That building is one of the few links to the old city. Camden was once the height of the region, and it's been severed from the region. You need lines of continuity.'' 
 But underscoring the problem, he added, ''The presence of Campbell Soup is one of those lines.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former Sears, Roebuck building in Camden is a designated historic site, but the door has been ripped off and the interior is rotting. The Campbell Soup Company says it interferes with its redevelopment plans.
 The Campbell Soup Company wants to demolish a 1927 building that housed a Sears, Roebuck & Company store in Camden, N.J., and use the site to upgrade its headquarters, above, and create an office park. (Photographs by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); APPROVALS (68%); BASEBALL (61%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); CENSUS (50%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (85%)

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (85%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



97 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Venture Fund To Seek Out Cost Cutters In Health Care

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Venture investment in the health business typically chases miracle cures and high-technology gadgets, like bioengineered drugs and new medical devices. They promise much but cost a lot.
 Dr. David J. Brailer, a former senior health official in the Bush administration, is starting a $700 million private equity fund, Health Evolution Partners, with a different mission. ''We're going to be investing in things that can reduce the crushing costs of health care,'' said Dr. Brailer, who was the administration's national coordinator of health information technology.
At the outset, the sole investor will be Calpers, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the largest public pension fund in the United States with assets of $240 billion. Calpers funds form the basis for pension and health benefits for 1.5 million workers, retirees and their families. 
 So as Dr. Brailer's equity fund pursues investments in cost-effective, high-quality health care, the impact on Calpers could extend beyond its balance sheet. 
 ''Those businesses could meaningfully affect how you care for the insured,'' said Fred Cohen, a doctor and a partner at the Texas Pacific Group, a large private equity group. ''Calpers and David Brailer have done a lot of thinking about how one does good and how one does well.''
 Calpers, Dr. Cohen added, is ''big enough to be able to use its financial resources to do clever things to try to change the health system.'' 
 Health Evolution Partners, Dr. Brailer said, would look to invest in companies with new ideas in fields like remote monitoring of patients, the management of chronic diseases, telemedicine, predictive genomics to tailor drug doses and eBay-style Internet marketplaces for services like reading chest X-rays.
 During his two years in the administration, which ended in May 2006, Dr. Brailer championed the adoption of electronic patient records to improve the quality of care and cut costs. But his investment firm, he said, has no plans to invest in electronic health records, which he termed a ''saturated market.''
 Today, Dr. Brailer said, the opportunity lies in linking health information technology to services. As an example, he mentioned the possibility of putting inexpensive remote sensors in the home of a person with early-stage Alzheimer's disease, so a doctor or nurse could monitor the patient's condition and activities. The patient, Dr. Brailer explained, could live more independently for a time and delay going into a nursing home, which can cost several thousand dollars a month.
 Dr. Brailer said that he would not rule out an investment in a company offering technology or service to a hospital. ''But mostly, we're going to invest in things that keep people out of institutions,'' he said. 
 The challenge to that investment strategy is that payment in America's health care system is typically on a fee-for-service basis. So doctors, hospitals, clinics and drug companies are paid more for doing more -- more tests, more surgeries, more pills.
 Medical experts and economists have routinely criticized fee-for-service incentives for encouraging an unnecessary run-up in costs that can produce worse health outcomes. Dr. Brailer, who is both a medical doctor and an economist, calls it ''high-volume, procedure-churn med-icine.''
 He says that the system and its incentives are beginning to change, as insurers become convinced that preventive medicine, disease management and other long-term cost-cutting steps are both cost-effective and better medicine.
 Health Evolution Partners, Dr. Brailer said, is the start of a 10-year strategy that assumes such approaches will increasingly move into the mainstream of health care.
 Calpers will be the only investor for a year, with $500 million earmarked for direct investments and joint venture investments, and $200 million more for investments in other health funds.
 After a year, the fund will be open to other investors. ''We want to create an ecosystem to help change health care,'' Dr. Brailer said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. David J. Brailer, a former Bush administration official, will emphasize investments linking information technology to patient service. (Photo by Jerry W. Hoefer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); TELEMEDICINE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TELEHEALTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); RADIOLOGY (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

COMPANY: TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



98 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: April Factory Orders and Capital Goods Send Mixed Signals

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Orders placed with American factories rose less than forecast in April, while gains in capital-goods spending might presage stronger business investment in coming months. 
 Bookings increased 0.3 percent, after a 4.1 percent gain in March, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Excluding transportation equipment, orders gained 0.7 percent, after a 2.4 percent gain in March.
The slowdown in orders may be temporary, economists said. Demand is likely to pick up as the economy recovers from the slowest expansion in more than four years, they added. The signs of a rebound in business spending are consistent with the Federal Reserve's projection of faster growth later this year and into 2008.
 ''There's been a lot of concern about business spending, but it seems like we're slowly inching away from the cliff,'' said Drew Matus, a senior economist at Lehman Brothers Holdings in New York. ''These numbers support the idea of better growth in the second quarter, and if this continues it supports the Fed's view of a better second half.''
 Factory orders were forecast to rise 0.7 percent, according to the median estimate in a survey of 66 economists. Forecasts of the gain in orders ranged from 0.2 percent to 2 percent.
 Orders for durable goods, which make up about 55 percent of factory demand, rose a revised 0.8 percent after a 5.1 percent increase in March. 
 Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military equipment, a measure of future business investment, increased 2.1 percent after a 4.6 percent gain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



99 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Shares Post Slight Gains as Slide in China Is Shrugged Off

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street recovered from a mostly down session yesterday, eking out a gain as investors brushed off another slide in Chinese stocks.
 The market had little in the way of corporate or economic news to give it direction, but while it was in negative territory for much of the day, in the end it shook off an 8.3 percent slide in the benchmark Shanghai composite index. That index had its biggest one-day drop since the Feb. 27 plunge that set off a brief global market sell-off as the Chinese government continues to try to cool the country's market boom.
Investors used yesterday to adjust positions after the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average surged to record closes on Friday, partly encouraged by last week's economic data. 
 Yesterday, however, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders were weaker than expected in April. Investors might find some data to trade on with today's release of the Institute for Supply Management's service sector index . 
 ''I think you're seeing a combination of investors wanting to take some profit on a Monday morning, and some fear because of what happened in China,'' said Ryan Detrick, a senior technical strategist for Schaeffer's Investment Research. 
 The Dow rose 8.21 points, or 0.06 percent, to 13,676.32. Broader indicators were also up slightly. The S.& P. 500 index rose 2.84 points, or 0.18 percent, to 1,539.18, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.37 points, or 0.17 percent, to 2,618.29.
 Though small, the gains meant that the Dow and the S.& P. closed at record highs again yesterday.
 The bond market moved higher as well. The 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32 to 96 21/32 and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.93 percent from 4.95 percent late Friday. 
 The Commerce Department report had some impact on the bond market, encouraging some hope that weaker data will mean an interest rate cut this year. The report showed that manufacuring grew 0.3 percent in April after a 4.1 percent increase in March.
 The dollar slipped against major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Oil prices rose, even though a Nigerian militant group announced a one-month cease-fire and a gasoline pipeline in the United States was restarted. A barrel of light crude rose $1.13, to $66.21 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In corporate news, deal making continued. Palm, the maker of Smartphones, said it got $325 million from a private equity firm, Elevation Partners, and announced a shake-up of its board. Palm rose $1.48, or 9.2 percent, to $17.57.
 Dow Jones fell $1.04, to $60.16, as its principal owners met with Rupert Murdoch about the possibility of an acquisition. Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation has bid $5 billion for the company.
 The oil and natural gas producer Anadarko Petroleum said late Sunday that it was selling systems for gathering natural gas and processing plants to Atlas Pipeline Partners for $1.85 billion. Anadarko rose $2.30, or 4.6 percent, to $51.95; shares of Atlas Pipeline Holdings, the partner of Atlas Pipeline Partners, rose $8.14, or 26 percent, to $39.56.
 Solectron, a contract electronics maker, rose 51 cents, or 15 percent, to $3.88 after a rival, Flextronics International, announced a bid worth about $3.6 billion in cash and stock. Flextronics fell 16 cents to $11.54.
 Apple announced that its highly anticipated iPhone will be available June 29. Its shares rose $2.93, or 2.5 percent, to $121.33.
 Wal-Mart Stores rose $1.74, or 3.5 percent, to $51.21 after being upgraded by analysts at Wachovia and JPMorgan Chase. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction for three- and six-month bills: (000 omitted in dollar figures)
 20,20,20


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.809	97.578	High Rate	 4.710	 4.790	Investment Rate	 4.846	 4.991	Low Rate	 4.680	 4.750	Median Rate	 4.700	 4.770	Total applied for	$61,030,831	$49,059,064	Accepted	$23,446,751	$20,697,947	Noncompetitive	$1,864,363	$1,750,880	 Both issues are dated June 07, 2007. The three-month bills mature on September 06, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on December 06, 2007. (000 omitted in dollar figures) Price -- 99.858 Investment Rate -- 5.182 High Rate -- 5.090 Low Rate -- 5.055 Median Rate -- 5.080 Total applied for -- $44,845,000 Accepted -- $12,000,564 Noncompetitive -- $-0- The 10-day cash management bills mature June 15, 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); SMARTPHONES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



100 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Pinch, Racetrack Casinos Again Seek Lower Tax Rate

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Michelle York contributed reporting from Tioga Downs in Nichols, N.Y.

 BODY:
Lucy DePadova, a retired jewelry saleswoman from New Jersey, paused a moment to assess the casino floor at Yonkers Raceway, where rows of 5,500 high-tech slot machines, or video lottery terminals, ran the length of three air-conditioned football fields. 
 The place felt empty, as a couple dozen other patrons dutifully pushed the buttons on the machines. ''It's beautiful outside, to look at the racetrack,'' Ms. DePadova said over the dings and dongs from the slots and the pop music coming from overhead speakers. ''If they had more comps, it'd be more of a draw.''
Many of the track operators agree. For the third time since the state approved video lottery terminals six years ago, the operators are in Albany fighting to lower the state's effective tax rate on racetrack casino revenues -- a sliding scale from 60 to 70 percent that is the highest in the nation. 
 The operators of the state's eight racetrack casinos contend that they do not make enough money to pay for the kinds of advertising, prizes, buffets, entertainment and free promotions -- or ''comps'' -- needed to attract gamblers and compete with Indian casinos or gambling operations in surrounding states. More promotion will mean more gamblers, and more gamblers will increase the state's revenue for education, even at a lower tax rate, operators assert. 
 ''We believe that additional marketing dollars will translate into increased dollars flowing into state coffers for education,'' said Tim Rooney Jr., whose family owns Yonkers Raceway and invested $290 million in its casino. 
 The operators have found significant support in the State Senate, where Senator William J. Larkin Jr., of the Hudson Valley, has introduced a bill that would help racetrack casinos, or racinos, finance marketing and capital improvements. The bill would also reduce the effective tax on tracks in less populated areas or where they face stiff competition from casinos in New York, Connecticut and Atlantic City.
 But critics of the proposal say the state should not have to keep bailing out failing racinos, which will face ever growing competition as more casinos open. They also contend that reducing taxes will hurt education. Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow, who represents Westchester County and is chairman of the committee on racing and wagering, said his preliminary analysis indicated that the bill would ''decrease aid to education by 20 percent.'' 
 ''The purpose of this was to increase the amount of aid the state gives to education,'' Mr. Pretlow said. ''The lottery was not devised to enrich facility operators. No one was forced to introduce V.L.T.'s at their tracks,'' he said of the video lottery terminals.
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer has taken no position. ''When it passes both houses,'' Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for the governor, said, ''we'll take a look at it.''
 Jeffrey Gural, a New York real estate executive who owns two small upstate racinos, Vernon Downs and Tioga Downs, said he would be forced to close the tracks if he did not get a better advertising allowance and if the tax rate did not go down.
 ''We lose $12 million a year,'' Mr. Gural said. ''I don't want to threaten, but I'd have to close. How can you have a casino in the middle of nowhere and pay the highest tax in the country?''
 He asserted that tax revenues from racinos rose by more than 20 percent after he helped persuade the Legislature in 2005 to reduce the tax rate and provide the tracks with an 8 percent marketing allowance. 
 Under the terms of the Senate bill, the marketing allowance would rise to 10 percent for most tracks. The operators of small tracks would also be allowed to keep 40 percent of the first $50 million in revenues, up from 32 percent. The rate would fall to 29 percent on revenues over $50 million.
 At Tioga Downs on Friday afternoon, about 150 people passed through the casino, which has 750 machines. The crowd was overwhelmingly made up of retirees.
 Eleanor Shaffer, 72, of Horseheads was playing one of the machines. She comes once a month, limiting herself to $100 in gambling money. ''If you're here to win, you'd better go home,'' she said with a chuckle.
 Like Ms. Shaffer, Mike Vascello, 37, and his wife, Denise, 39, come for entertainment, not with the expectation of making a fortune. ''It's really good for the area,'' Ms. Vascello said. ''There are not a whole lot of things to do around here.''
 But Tioga, like the Buffalo Raceway or Monticello Raceway, does not do as well as racinos in Yonkers, Saratoga or Pennsylvania. 
 In April, Tioga's average daily ''win'' per machine was only $159, far below the $262 average of the nine states on the East Coast that have machines and well behind Yonkers's $192 and Saratoga's $258, according to the Gaming Industry Observer, a consulting company. The ''win'' is the 8 percent of the money gambled at each machine after 92 percent is paid out in prizes.
 The racinos were supposed to be a gold mine for operators, the flagging horse racing industry and especially for education. Indeed, the gambling machines at the state's eight racinos generated $219.3 million last year, up from $117.4 million in 2004, according to the New York State Lottery, which oversees the money. 
 At the same time, the horse racing industry and the breeders, which get roughly 9 percent of the video lottery revenues, are doing better. As a result, the purses are bigger. But the horsemen do not support the bill, said Joseph A. Faraldo, president of the Standardbred Owners Association, in large part because it does not specify their share of the revenues. 
 Mr. Faraldo, who has clashed with Mr. Gural, says it was a ''bad business decision'' to open the Vernon and Batavia racinos so close to Indian casinos. He added that the state should not have to bail them out.
 At the urging of the operators, the Legislature has increased their share of the revenues over the past six years, in a competitive and balkanized gambling market. Not only are there casinos in Atlantic City and in Connecticut, there are also racinos in Delaware, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. The racino at Monticello felt the pinch of competition when Yonkers opened last year. Yonkers, in turn, will feel the heat if video lottery terminals are installed at Belmont or Aqueduct.
 Any debate over gambling involves a dizzying maze of numbers.
 Under state legislation, the operators keep 32 percent of the revenues, although they say the effective share is closer to 22.5 percent after they give about 9.5 percent of the revenues to the horsemen and breeders. The state, however, does give back up to 8 percent for marketing.
 ''You have to spend money on freebies, or they'll get on the bus to Atlantic City or the Indian casinos,'' Mr. Gural said.
 In one sign of the industry's health, New York racinos average the lowest daily win per machine -- $177 a day -- of the nine states on the East Coast that permit slot machine gambling, according to the April survey by Gaming Industry Observer. 
 The machines at the Delaware racetracks generated an average of $240 a day, compared with $264 at Atlantic City casinos and $352 at Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun in Connecticut.
 Statistics tell conflicting stories. The Atlantic City casinos have the lowest effective tax rate, at 9.25 percent, but their win per machines lags well behind the Connecticut casinos, which turn over 25 percent of the slot revenues to the state.
 But a comparison of New York and Pennsylvania suggests that lower taxes can lead to higher state revenues. Pennsylvania's effective tax rate is 56.5 percent, compared with New York's at roughly 78 percent. During the first full week of May, the eight racinos in New York, with a combined 12,679 machines, generated $7.97 million for education. But the four racinos in Pennsylvania, with far fewer machines -- 7,929 -- generated $9.6 million, or 20 percent more.
 Nevertheless, Pennsylvania's racino operators say the high tax rate leaves them with little cash for marketing and promotions. 
 Assemblyman Pretlow of New York says the operators got into the business with their eyes wide open. He does not want to be in a position of constantly adjusting the tax rate as their fortunes rise and fall.
 But Senator Larkin said one more adjustment was necessary. ''We'll give them an opportunity to generate new revenue and establish these racinos as tourist destinations, which in turn would help the upstate economies,'' he said. 
 But, he added, ''We're telling them that this is the end of the road.'' 
 Patrons playing some of the 750 high-tech slot machines, or video lottery terminals, at Tioga Downs in Nichols, N.Y. (Photographs by Bill Wingell for The New York Times) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The owner of Tioga Downs says he will be forced to close unless the state provides a better advertising allowance and a lower tax rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (95%); GAMING (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LOTTERIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); POP & ROCK (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



101 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Europe Moves to Make Big Polluters Pay for Emissions

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE; James Kanter contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 4 

 BODY:
Europe is moving toward making significant changes to its emissions-trading system that could force large polluters to pay for most, if not all, permits to produce climate-changing gases, European officials said Monday.
 Although the European carbon-trading arrangement is considered to be among the world's most functional, the countries that administer it acknowledged in a meeting during the weekend in Essen, Germany, that the system had flaws, including a government credit allocation plan that allows companies to profit by lobbying for additional pollution permits.
According to a statement, the governments of the European Union plan to ask the European Commission to propose modifying the current framework, known as cap and trade, by including auction and benchmarking components that would reduce corporate influence over pollution permits after 2012, when a crucial period of the present system expires. 
 ''Though it has been a success, we have undergone a steep learning curve, and we have seen some windfall profits being made by power companies,'' said Barbara Helfferich, a spokeswoman for the European environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas.
 ''We are considering auctioning up to 100 percent of credits,'' she said, and would seek to determine whether there should be a mandatory level of auctioning. The commission is to complete its review this year. 
 The post-2012 changes might give the European Commission greater power to impose overall caps on national governments. At present it must approve the allocations that each member country makes for its biggest polluters.
 The acknowledgment of a shift comes before a visit by President Bush this week to the Group of 8 summit meeting in the German resort of Heiligendamm, where leaders are expected to debate the systems that nations and businesses should adopt to combat climate change.
 Mr. Bush said last week that he would resist adopting a European-style system of allotting and trading pollution permits, a setup framed by the Kyoto climate treaty that aimed to cap the total amount of carbon dioxide released by companies.
 But several countries have adopted similar systems, and some big American companies have urged a European-style solution. Additionally, a group of chief executives from large companies in the energy sector called Monday for establishing a global carbon market.
 Europeans took an early lead in efforts to curb global warming by championing the Kyoto Protocol and then by establishing the largest carbon management system in the world to meet its requirements. The two-year-old system involves complicated quotas that cap carbon dioxide emissions from thousands of factories across the trade bloc.
 Defenders of the European system say that it still is in its infancy. 
 ''What's important is Europe's experimental approach,'' Tom Wilbanks, a climate scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, said. ''Aspects of the European system that work will be exported widely,'' he said, adding that European boldness will ''help people avoid repeating the same mistakes.'' 
 Others, including Lawrence Summers, the former president of Harvard, argue that Europe has embarked on a project that needs a major overhaul. So far, progress in Europe has been modest when compared with international commitments.
 In the 15 European countries that signed up to common Kyoto targets, the overall decline in emissions was about 2 percent by 2005 compared with 1990 levels, said Andreas Barkman, the project manager for greenhouse gases at the European Environment Agency. The Kyoto goal is 8 percent. 
 Last year, Europe was forced to cut the number of credits it hands out after companies successfully lobbied governments, flooding the market. Certain sectors like steel benefited from over-allocations by selling excess credits.
 Electricity producers like E.On and RWE in Germany and Vattenfall, the Swedish energy company, also benefited from free allowances, by passing on costs to their customers, according to Jos Sijm, a senior economist at the Energy Research Center of the Netherlands, who tracks the issue.
 ''The first phase definitely did not deliver reductions in emissions,'' said Mahi Sideridou, the European Union climate policy director for Greenpeace in Brussels. 
 In the United States, General Motors, Duke Energy and others have lined up in favor of European-style quotas, leading many environmentalists and experts to question whether these companies would be required to do enough to change their business practices in ways that create an effective transition to a cleaner environment.
 ''The concern in the United States is that the caps would be set too low, and in that case companies would get off easy,'' Peter Haas, a professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Companies like the utility giant RWE, the owner of the coal-fired power station near Grevenbroich, Germany, above, could change their approachto carbon permits under new European Union proposals. (Photo by Wolfgang von Brauchitsch/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS CREDITS (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (59%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



102 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Today's Managing Partner In Team Clinton & Clinton

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
 A Woman in Charge The Life of Hillary Rodham Clinton By Carl Bernstein Illustrated. 628 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.95. 
 Given all the sobering things that have happened since the turn of the millennium -- from the terrorist attacks of 9/11 to the war in Iraq to the Bush administration's efforts to expand executive power and curtail civil liberties -- the sex and real estate follies of the Clinton White House now feel as if they belong to an era long ago and far, far away. Indeed, Carl Bernstein's new biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton often feels like a very long, very slow acid flashback to the 1990s, rehashing and reexamining, in minute detail, matters like Monica, Whitewater, bimbo eruptions and the state of the Clintons' marriage.
Mr. Bernstein has written a serious, energetically researched and largely fluent book, but there is little new in this volume: its disclosures amount mainly to embroiderings on already well-known aspects of the Clintons' lives. 
 Mr. Bernstein's overall take on Mrs. Clinton (that her ''experiential openness'' gave her a ''capacity for personal growth and change'' embodied by her decision to run for the United States Senate in New York in the wake of the Monica Lewinsky scandal) is remarkably similar to the conclusions drawn by Gail Sheehy in her 1999 book, ''Hillary's Choice, '' while his observations on the dynamic between Mrs. Clinton and her husband -- that he was the charmer, she was the disciplinarian -- echo remarks made hundreds of times before by reporters as well as former administration insiders like George Stephanopoulos, David Gergen and Dick Morris. 
 Unlike the other new Hillary book -- ''Her Way: The Hopes and Ambitions of Hillary Rodham Clinton'' by Jeff Gerth, a former reporter at The New York Times, and Don Van Natta Jr., an investigative reporter at the newspaper -- this volume does not really appraise Mrs. Clinton's record as a senator from New York and sheds no new light on her stance on the Iraq war or her current campaign for the White House. 
 In creating a portrait of the former first lady, Mr. Bernstein does a lot of on-the-one-hand and on-the-other-hand. He underscores Mrs. Clinton's intelligence, toughness and resilience but also describes less than attractive traits that have more often been ascribed to George W. Bush: religious convictions that ''to some bordered on a messiahlike self-perception,'' a ''demand for absolute loyalty,'' a discomfort with being challenged. 
 He writes that many traits seen in private by her friends -- humor, spontaneity, enthusiasm -- are concealed behind the ''protective shell'' she wears in public, and he describes ''a disconnect between her convictions and words, and her actions.'' 
 All in all, his book will please neither Friends of Hillary nor Enemies of Hillary: while it is often sympathetic toward the former first lady as an individual grappling with a complex marriage and trying to carry out genuinely held ideals, it is just as often critical of judgment calls she's made on both policy and politics.
 At times Mr. Bernstein tries hard to feel the Clintons' pain. He argues that the couple were ''treated more harshly, and often pursued with different standards and more relentlessly -- during virtually the whole of their occupancy of the White House -- than any president and his wife of the 20th century.'' He contends that many of the ''underlying assumptions'' of the assertions that fueled the investigation into their lives ''were often contextually misleading, exaggerated in significance, and sometimes factually off-base.''
 And he contests arguments that the Clintons' marriage was, at base, some sort of power-sharing alliance, writing of the ''ecstasy'' Hillary felt when she first fell in love with Bill Clinton, and describing ''how good Hillary and Bill could be together, how much fun they had, how they reveled in each other's company, how they connected, the deep commitment they shared to an old-fashioned concept of public service, the belief of each, naive as it sounded, that together there was a way to make things better for people whose lives were not as blessed as their own.''
 As for right-wing allegations that Mrs. Clinton was some sort of ''leftist ideologue,'' Mr. Bernstein suggests that she was actually very conservative personally. He notes that she attended a women's prayer group (which included Susan Baker, the wife of former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, and Joanne Kemp, wife of the former Republican congressman Jack Kemp) and writes that her ''real-life education and sense of right and wrong (which became more complicated and relativist as she grew older) guided her away from rigid ideology'' and ''led her to reject hard political dogma of any sort (including aspects of feminist theology).'' 
 Mr. Bernstein argues that Hillary Clinton's ''political development reflected more curiosity and openness'' than her husband's and italicizes the pivotal role she played in the former president's rise to power and subsequent troubles, suggesting that Bill Clinton ''often needed to be managed, pushed, reassured, guided, or scolded, depending on the moment, to perform at the level of which he was capable.'' 
 ''With the notable exception of her husband's libidinous carelessness,'' Mr. Bernstein asserts, ''the most egregious errors, strategic and tactical'' of his presidency, particularly in its stumbling first year, are ''traceable to Hillary,'' including, in large measure, the inept staffing of the White House, the disastrous serial search for an attorney general, the Travel Office brouhaha, Whitewater and the alienation of key senators and members of Congress.
 Arguably the most troubling incidents in this book relate to Mrs. Clinton's handling of the administration's failed health care plan. The outlines of this story have been told many times before -- most notably by the former presidential adviser David R. Gergen, who has suggested that Mr. Clinton failed to take control of the health care initiative because he was unwilling to challenge his wife in the wake of reports suggesting that he had used Arkansas state troopers to procure women. 
 Mr. Bernstein, however, focuses on the battles between Mrs. Clinton and administration budget hawks like Robert Rubin, then head of the newly created National Economic Council and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, who were among those who warned the president that ''the deficit would be in danger of exploding if he listened to Hillary'' on health care and urged him to ''settle on a more manageable and incremental approach.'' 
 Mr. Bernstein contends that ''Hillary's acceptance of her husband's economic program'' -- which would fuel an economic boom and become a linchpin of his legacy -- ''was forced and grudging at almost every step,'' and implies she willfully resisted modifying her health care plan. 
 Mrs. Clinton ''tended to view anyone who criticized her plan, even constructively, as an enemy,'' Mr. Bernstein writes, adding that much to the dismay of Senators Bill Bradley and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, she advised Congressional Democrats that ''the time had come to 'demonize' those who would slow down the health care train for some important roadwork.'' 
 Mr. Bernstein reportedly spent eight years working on this portrait of Mrs. Clinton, and in these pages he sometimes sounds defensive, as if heneeded to resort to hyperbole to justify all the time devoted to his subject. He declares, for instance, that Hillary Clinton ''had come to a prominence unique in her time -- settling in a rarefied place never populated even by F .D. R., Princess Diana, Ike, Oprah or Eleanor Roosevelt as, in a great cacophony, people from every station and walk of life (plus talk show hosts and The National Enquirer) fulminated, debated and screamed at one another about her.'' 
 In the course of a book that weighs in at more than 600 pages, he's created a highly detailed portrait of Hillary Rodham Clinton, but it's a portrait largely made up of incidents and descriptions and theories any regular follower of the news already knows -- a portrait, arriving at a time, in Mr. Bernstein's words, when ''the disastrous presidency of her husband's successor'' is nearing expiration, that seems unlikely to find all that many eager readers. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Bernstein (Photo by Gaspar Tringale)(pg. E6)
 (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SCANDALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LSD (73%); TERRORISM (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007



103 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(On the Runway)

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2007

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Bikinis  la Mode

BYLINE: CATHY HORYN


HIGHLIGHT: Some years ago, when Jean Paul Gaultier was really sinking teeth into couture, he held a show in the former home of Marie Laure de Noailles, an enormous house in the Place des &#201;tats Unis. 

 BODY:
Some years ago, when Jean Paul Gaultier was really sinking teeth into couture, he held a show in the former home of Marie Laure de Noailles, an enormous house in the Place des tats Unis. I have a memory of rounding the corner - a wet January day - and seeing the bronze statue of Myron T. Herrick. Now there's a name a girl can't forget. Herrick was the American ambassador to France when Lindbergh landed in Paris, in May 1927. I knew this because I happened to be reading Scott Berg's biography of Lindbergh. A trip to a fashion show helped square a minor figure in history. A few nights later I was at a cocktail party at the American Embassy, and Felix Rohatyn, then ambassador, told me he loathed Lingbergh because of his Nazi sympathies. I was glad I had read Berg's great biography, which spelled out the sources of Lingbergh's self-absorbed, self-reliant character.
Anyway, I thought of him because of the comments in recent days about Piaf and Chanel, particularly the wearily sarcastic ones by Jeff Nardine. You mean we've never heard that Coco slept with a Nazi?! Olivier Dahan wears boxing gloves with Piaf, even if he skips WWII. He hardly lets her off the hook. But at least we understand what made Paif so feral. (I think that was Stephen Holden's word.) My complaint with fashion biographies - and I defy anyone to name a really first-rate one - is that they almost never begin, like Berg's book, at the point of character, so that we can understand the choices the individual made, and ultimately sympathize with him or her. They're not like other biographies, they're sort of a sub branch of the biography. I hated Alicia Drake's book on Lagerfeld and Saint Laurent. Great subject; lost opportunity. She couldn't support Lagerfeld's decisions because she failed to give us a solid sense of his character. People said they were impressed by her research but it was only more journalism and not a history.
Jude Gabbard, thanks for the interesting post. You and Alex A bring up couture, with Alex A wondering about my fatalism. It's not that I don't think that couture has an artistic and practical place in the future. It's just that I'm prepared to accept the fact that it's going to have to change. True, Galliano brought a more contemporary approach and eye to Dior, most evident around 2000, and certainly Theyskens and Elbaz are two designers who could bring ideas and training to a couture house. But would they want to if given the chance? I'd love to ask Elbaz that question. I suspect the purchase by Chanel of Lesage, etc. reflects the outlook of the Wertheimer family and the influence of Lagerfeld. We didn't hear of other companies stepping up to that plate. 
The thing to consider is how much a designer name will matter to a big brand like Valentino. Obviously talent and creative leadership matter. That's why everyone's waiting to see what will happen at Chlo. But look at Gucci. It didn't implode after Tom Ford left. It may not be the Gucci of your dreams, and maybe that moment has passed (for now), but the business is a huge success. I'm just not convinced in the case of Valentino that haute couture will matter down the road. The clothes that Valentino makes are beautiful and impeccable, but be honest: do they open our eyes in the way that Dior and Chanel have? Or the way an incredible piece from Alaa can? Or even Margiela? There isn't the same vitality and urgency, and that's not a demerit to Valentino, just a fact of the times and individual lives. 
Style Spy wonders about the $150 dress. It is a challenge to find a good dress in that range. I've been looking lately, as a kind of mission, and it also seems right for summer. But there is this thought: Be careful what you wish for. Along with cheap air conditioners and electronics, China will be happy to supply you with inexpensive dresses. I recall an excellent article by Katherine Boo, in The New Yorker, about the impact of foreign garment making (in this case, Fruit of the Loom undies and socks) on a small Texas community that gradually lost that business. And the other day I spoke to a maker of high-quality swimsuits in New York who said her biggest headache was finding textile mills that would still agree to small runs. More and more, taste, fit and quality have an underlying economics.
Finally, a number of readers wondered about the bathing suit story and why the pictures seemed better suited, um, for, golly, Tiger Beat. All I can say is: It occasionally happens where the writer marches off in one direction and the photographer in another. But at least, as my colleague Eric Wilson cheerfully observed, the model wasn't endorsing heavy tanning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HAUTE COUTURE (89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); BOXING (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012



104 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad Gallery Owner Hopes Culture Can Dispel Hate

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Ahmad Fadam and Wisam A. Habeeb contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, June 1 

 BODY:
He may be the last hopeful man in Iraq. 
 Amid the violence, the crumbling economy and rising religious and political intolerance, Hasan Nassar can see a peaceful, democratic Iraq close at hand, one in which ideas, not bullets, are paramount.
The incubator for his vision is his small art gallery in northern Baghdad, which he opened in early 2006 even as most others were shutting down. He has kept it alive with a relentless rotation of exhibits, lectures, poetry readings and film screenings. 
 There is urgency to this schedule. Mr. Nassar believes that culture can provide a pathway out of the hate and fear overwhelming Iraq, and he is trying to marshal like-minded Iraqis to join his movement. 
 Few people outside the shrinking Iraqi art world know of Mr. Nassar, and the trickle of visitors to his Madarat Gallery suggests that many Iraqis would find his notion quixotic. Furthermore, the gallery, the only one left in Baghdad with frequently rotating exhibits, is far from profitable. 
 But Mr. Nassar persists all the same, passing his days drinking cups of sugary black tea with a scattering of artists and bohemians in the gallery's courtyard cafe, decorated with friends' paintings and a stand of tall ficus plants. They talk about culture, politics and their shared belief that the salvation of Iraq rests with the redeeming and ennobling virtues of art.
 ''We're trying to get back the Iraqi open mind,'' said Mr. Nassar, 37, a plump man who speaks gently and smokes constantly. ''It's a chance for a new period, and I want to be part of that.'' 
 Immediately after the invasion, the cultural community here was flush with optimism. For many artists, the fall of Saddam Hussein promised a new flowering of expression, an artistic liberation. They found clients among the returning exiles and the flood of foreigners, including diplomats and their staffs, aid workers, journalists, even the American military. 
 ''It was the golden age,'' said Hadi Mahood, 36, a painter who works in a group studio without electricity in the Karada neighborhood of Baghdad. ''We hoped for a good life.'' 
 But as the Sunni Arab insurgency grew and sectarian violence overwhelmed the country, the local arts community dissipated. People stopped spending money on all but essential goods, and art sales plummeted. Nearly all of the capital's galleries closed, and hundreds of the country's most accomplished artists joined the Iraqis who were fleeing the country. Those who remained retreated to the obscurity of their studios or lay down their tools altogether. 
 Many have concluded that their lives as artists were better under Mr. Hussein.
 ''One million times better,'' said Noori al-Rawi, 82, a painter, curator and art scholar who founded four museums in Baghdad and is regarded by many in the Iraqi art world as one of the pioneers of modern Iraqi art. 
 Mr. Rawi has become so depressed by the state of his country that he has not picked up a paintbrush for more than two years. He says he is ready to gather all of his art history archives -- articles, books, reviews, photographs, slides and paintings -- and burn them.
 ''I feel now that all humanity is against Iraq and against the Iraqi people and against Iraqi history and against Iraqi culture,'' Mr. Rawi, frail and slight, said on a recent afternoon while sitting in his dormant studio in western Baghdad. ''We entered an endless dark tunnel.''
 Even during the terror and cruelty of Mr. Hussein's reign, there was an active arts market, many galleries, and national and international art shows. 
 Mr. Hussein himself was a patron of the arts, sponsoring competitions, exhibitions and scholarships. But he was far from an egalitarian benefactor. He rewarded those who honored him with flattering sculptures and paintings and sometimes pressed pre-eminent artists into such projects. He punished those whose work or words stood against his rule. 
 ''It was a dictatorship, but that dictatorship helped,'' said Qasim Sabti, owner of the Hewar Gallery, which opened in 1992 in the Wasiriya neighborhood and became a cultural institution in Baghdad. 
 His gallery remains one of the few remaining hubs for the cultural community here. But even though its cafe is often busy, exhibits are rare. ''Sometimes I am tired, too tired,'' said Mr. Sabti, who is 54. 
 Looking back at Mr. Hussein's rule, he described the compromises that had been necessary for survival. ''You were free to do your art with the government or without the government, but not against the government,'' he said. 
 For that reason, Mr. Nassar does not subscribe to the notion that Iraq was better for artists under Mr. Hussein. He did well with his art, selling paintings through a dealer in Austria. But, he said, life was suffocating for everyone who was not close to the regime. 
 ''Saddam didn't hurt my family or kill any of my relatives,'' he said. ''I didn't suffer from any violence. But life was misery, especially if you liked to be free. In Iraq, you had to follow orders.
 ''Then we were just breathing. Now we have hope, hope for a good future.'' 
 Optimistic comments like those have become extremely rare in Iraq, especially from people who are not politicians or generals. But while Mr. Nassar knows he is isolated, he insists that he is not alone. 
 ''There are other people who believe this,'' he said, ''but they need to know each other to become a group.'' 
 One recent morning, in preparation for a lecture by an Iraqi sculptor, Mr. Nassar arranged two dozen plastic chairs into rows in the gallery. He said he made no guarantees to any exhibitor. ''He may not make money,'' Mr. Nassar said, ''but at least he can say: 'I still exist. I'm still working. I'm still alive.' '' 
 Sometimes the challenges are completely mundane. Shortly before the event was to begin, the power went out. Then his generator failed. The gallery was cast into darkness and, with no air-conditioning, the temperature quickly approached 100 degrees. Mr. Nassar was forced to cancel the lecture. 
 Still, about a half dozen people, including instructors from an art academy across the street, stuck around to talk about art and politics. 
 Amjad Altayyar, a painter, lamented that the dominant parties and people in Iraqi society were communicating in ''the language of power and car bombs.'' 
 ''In the small society of this cafe,'' he continued, ''you can find artists and educated people who belong to different cultures, different nationalities. But the language among them is this notion of acceptance.'' 
 The gallery is linked to Mr. Nassar's organization, Attitudes Society of Art and Culture, which he founded in 2004 to help promote his notion of a progressive society through cultural programs and exchanges. The bulk of its financing has come from a United Nations program that supports new initiatives in developing countries. 
 But the membership has fallen with the fortunes of the country, dropping to the current level of 37 from a high of about 200. Many members have fled the country or confined themselves to their homes. 
 Mr. Nassar says neither he nor his assistants have been threatened by militants because of their involvement in the gallery, though he acknowledges that his liberal ethos makes him an enemy of Shiite and Sunni Arab Islamist militias. The violence all around him has at times been crushing and, last December, forced him to close the gallery for two months. 
 ''I was a few steps away from giving up,'' he admitted. But he decided that resigning would be tantamount to dying. ''If Iraq were without culture, people would be like animals: the stronger eating the weak. The faster would take out the slow.''
 ''This war,'' he said, ''makes hearts like stone.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hasan Nassar, the owner of the Madarat Gallery. ''We're trying to get back the Iraqi open mind,'' he said. ''It's a chance for a new period.''
 The cafe at the Madarat Gallery is a place where artists and bohemians gather to talk about culture, politics and the indispensability of art. (Photographs by Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PAINTING (77%); WRITERS (71%); POETRY (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



105 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 DISPUTE OVER AVANDIA STUDY -- GlaxoSmithKline says that preliminary results of a clinical trial provide reassurance that Avandia, its treatment for diabetes, does not raise the risk of a heart attack. But influential doctors argued that the data did nothing to alleviate their concerns about the drug's heart risks. [Page A1.] 
 GlaxoSmithKline won praise when it focused on African-Americans in marketing Avandia. But now that Avandia is dogged by safety questions, Glaxo's advertising strategy could end up working against the company. Advertising. [C1.] PLAYING AT HOME -- Chatting with friends and playing with dolls, all via the Internet -- millions of children and adolescents are spending hours on interactive play sites, which are aimed mainly at girls. [C1.] TIPTOEING INTO U.S. MARKET -- Britain's largest retailer, Tesco, is finally ready to enter the American market, beginning with a relatively modest string of neighborhood convenience stores called Fresh and Easy, in Los Angeles, Phoenix, Las Vegas and San Diego. [C1.] EBAY SELLING RADIO AIRTIME -- The auction giant eBay said it would begin selling radio airtime to advertisers starting Wednesday, expanding into a business that Google entered last year. [C3.] IN A SELLING MOOD -- Signs mounted that Federal Reserve is in no hurry to lower interest rates, leading to a sell-off in the markets. [C3.] 
 The stock market posted its first decline in a week after bond yields surged to a nine-month high. [C11.] F.T.C. ACTS TO BLOCK MERGER -- The Federal Trade Commission said that it would file a legal complaint today to block the proposed merger of Wild Oats Markets and Whole Foods Market, arguing that the deal would lead to higher prices for natural and organic products in markets where the two chains now compete. [C1.] MANURE PLANT GENERATES DEBATE -- Tons of turkey manure and a new $200 million power plant that burns the manure to produce electricity can be found in Benton, Minn. The power plant is the first of its kind in the country, but it is also the target of environmentalists who question the earth-friendliness of the operation. [A1.] MEDIA COMPETITION IN MEXICO -- Mexico's Supreme Court struck down crucial provisions of a media law, in a defeat for Mexico's television duopoly that sends a message favoring greater economic competition. [C2.] MARKETS THAT ARE QUICK TO REACT -- The Chinese government is learning the dangers of intervening in stock markets, as policy shifts by the government and even speculation of policy shifts have led to sharp swings in share prices on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets. [C9.] WAGONER URGES PATIENCE -- Rick Wagoner, the chairman and chief executive of General Motors, faced more than two hours of criticism from shareholders at the annual meeting, but he countered that the company had made major progress in turning around its fortunes last year. ''We're taking the profound actions necessary to transform the company for the long haul,'' Mr. Wagoner, above, said. Shareholders expressed their frustration. ''We've done turnarounds so many times we're going in circles,'' said one. [C5.] HBO'S NEW LINEUP -- HBO announced a new lineup of four top corporate officers to succeed Chris Albrecht, the chief executive who resigned last month. The group will be led by Bill Nelson as the chairman and chief executive. [C3.] DOW JONES WORKERS SEEK BUYER -- The main union of the Dow Jones & Company employees, hoping to head off a takeover by Rupert Murdoch, is shopping around for another bidder and has begun talks with aides to Ronald W. Burkle, a California billionaire, union officials and others said. [C4.] ENTICING SHOPPERS IN MAINE -- Freeport, Me., recently approved the development of a $45 million open-air pedestrian-friendly ''lifestyle center,'' basically a shopping center without walls, to help keep pace with retailers moving into nearby cities in Maine. [C7.] SERVICE INDUSTRY GROWING -- Service businesses, which make up almost 90 percent of the economy, expanded at an unexpectedly high rate last month, a sign the economy is strengthening. [C3.] HE OWNS THE HOTEL -- Laurence S. Geller, the chief executive of Strategic Hotels and Resorts, a real estate investment trust that owns 20 high-end hotels in North America and Europe, represents a new breed of hands-on owners who push managers to wring more profit out of their assets. [C6.] $29 MILLION IN RESTITUTION TO CA -- A former sales chief at CA, the software maker, has agreed to pay $29.7 million in restitution after pleading guilty last year to criminal charges in a scheme to raise the company's quarterly revenue artificially through backdated sales contracts.[C3.] ONLINE I.B.M. SETTLES WITH S.E.C. -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday that I.B.M. had settled a case in which it had been accused of misleading investors by overestimating the impact of stock-based compensation expenses on quarterly earnings in 2005. (REUTERS) ANOTHER BCE BIDDER -- BCE, the parent of Canada's largest telecommunications company, confirmed that its suitors in takeover talks include the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan and its American partner Providence Equity Partners.The announcement expands the number of potential bidders to three. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks share prices of Whole Foods Market for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); POWER PLANTS (85%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DEATHS (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); CHILDREN (76%); BONDS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (73%); DIABETES (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING STRATEGY (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); MERGERS (69%); CONVENIENCE STORES (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (91%); EBAY INC (83%); TESCO PLC (83%); GOOGLE INC (57%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (91%); GSK (LSE) (91%); BIOC (EGX) (91%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (83%); TSCO (LSE) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); WFM (NASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (65%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



106 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Logging On, Playing Dolls; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: For Not-Ready-for-MySpace Girls, Dress-Up and Diversions on the Web

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Presleigh Montemayor often gets home after a long day and spends some time with her family. Then she logs onto the Internet, leaving the real world and joining a virtual one. But the digital utopia of Second Life is not for her. Presleigh, who is 9 years old, prefers a Web site called Cartoon Doll Emporium. 
 The site lets her chat with her friends and dress up virtual dolls, by placing blouses, hair styles and accessories on them. It beats playing with regular Barbies, said Presleigh, who lives near Dallas.
''With Barbie, if you want clothes, it costs money,'' she said. ''You can do it on the Internet for free.'' 
 Presleigh is part of a booming phenomenon, the growth of a new wave of interactive play sites for a young generation of Internet users, in particular girls. 
 Millions of children and adolescents are spending hours on these sites, which offer virtual versions of traditional play activities and cute animated worlds that encourage self-expression and safe communication. They are, in effect, like Facebook or MySpace with training wheels, aimed at an audience that may be getting its first exposure to the Web.
 While some of the sites charge subscription fees, others are supported by advertising. As is the case with children's television, some critics wonder about the broader social cost of exposing children to marketing messages, and the amount of time spent on the sites makes some child advocates nervous.
 Regardless, the sites are growing in number and popularity, and they are doing so thanks to the word of mouth of babes, said Josh Bernoff, a social media and marketing industry analyst with Forrester Research.
 ''They're spreading rapidly among kids,'' Mr. Bernoff said, noting that the enthusiasm has a viral analogy. ''It's like catching a runny nose that everyone in the classroom gets.''
 Hitwise, a traffic measurement firm, says visits to a group of seven virtual-world sites aimed at children and teenagers grew 68 percent in the year ended April 28. Visits to the sites surge during summer vacation and other times when school is out. Gartner Research estimates that virtual-world sites have attracted 20 million users, with those aimed at younger people growing especially quickly.
 Even as the children are having fun, the adults running the sites are engaged in a cutthroat competition to be the destination of choice for a generation of Americans who are growing up on computers from Day 1.
 These sites, with names like Club Penguin, Cyworld, Habbo Hotel, Webkinz, WeeWorld and Stardoll, run the gamut from simple interactive games and chat to fantasy lands with mountains and caves.
 When Evan Bailyn, chief executive of Cartoon Doll Emporium, said that when he created the site, ''I thought it would be a fun, whimsical thing.'' Now, he says, ''it's turned into such a competitive thing,'' adding that ''people think they are going to make a killing.'' 
 Even Barbie herself is getting into the online act. Mattel is introducing BarbieGirls.com, another dress-up site with chat features. 
 In recent months, with the traffic for these sites growing into the tens of millions of visitors, the entrepreneurs behind them have started to refine their business models. 
 Cartoon Doll Emporium, which draws three million visitors a month, is free for many activities but now charges $8 a month for access to more dolls to dress up and other premium services. WeeWorld, a site aimed at letting 13- to-25-year-olds dress up and chat through animated characters, recently signed a deal to permit the online characters to carry bags of Skittles candy, and it is considering other advertisers. 
 On Stardoll, which has some advertising, users can augment the wardrobe they use to dress up their virtual dolls by buying credits over their cellphones. At Club Penguin, a virtual world with more than four million visitors a month, a $5.95-a-month subscription lets users adopt more pets for their penguin avatars (animated representations of users), which can roam, chat and play games like ice fishing and team hockey.
 Lane Merrifield, chief executive of Club Penguin, which is based in Kelowna, British Columbia, said that he decided on a subscription fee because he believed advertising to young people was a dangerous proposition. Clicking on ads, he said, could bring children out into the broader Web, where they could run into offensive material.
 Mr. Merrifield also bristles at any comparison to MySpace, which he said is a wide-open environment and one that poses all kinds of possible threats to young people.
 To make Club Penguin safe for children, the site uses a powerful filter that limits the kinds of messages users can type to one another. It is not possible, Mr. Merrifield said, to slip in a phone number or geographic location, or to use phrases or words that would be explicit or suggestive. Other sites are also set up to minimize the threat of troublesome interactions or limit what users can say to one another.
 ''We're the antithesis of MySpace,'' Mr. Merrifield said. ''MySpace is about sharing information. We're all about not being able to share information.''
 Other sites are more open, like WeeWorld, which permits people to create avatars, dress them up and then collect groups of friends who type short messages to one another. The characters tend to be cute and cartoonish, as do the home pages where they reside, but the chatter is typical teenager.
 ''There's a lot of teasing and flirting,'' said Lauren Bigelow, general manager of WeeWorld. She said that the site had around 900,000 users in April and is growing around 20 percent a month.
 Ms. Bigelow said that 60 percent of WeeWorld users are girls and young women, a proportion that is higher on some other sites. Stardoll said that its users are 93 percent female, typically ages 7 to 17, while Cartoon Doll Emporium said that it is 96 percent female, ages 8 to 14. 
 Some of the companies are aiming even younger. The Ontario company Ganz has a hit with Webkinz, plush toys that are sold in regular stores and are aimed at children as young as 6. Buyers enter secret codes from their toy's tag at webkinz.com and control a virtual replica of their animal in games. They also earn KinzCash that they can spend to design its home. The site draws more than 3.8 million visitors a month.
 Sherry Turkle, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies the social aspects of technology, said that the participants on these sites are slipping into virtual worlds more easily than their parents or older siblings.
 ''For young people, there is rather a kind of fluid boundary between the real and virtual world, and they can easily pass through it,'' she said.
 For some children, the allure of these sites is the chance to participate and guide the action on screen, something that is not possible with movies and television.
 ''The ability to express themselves is really appealing to the millennial generation,'' said Michael Streefland, the manager of Cyworld, a virtual world that started in South Korea and now attracts a million users a month in the United States, according to comScore, a research firm. ''This audience wants to be on stage. They want to have a say in the script.''
 But Professor Turkle expressed concern about some of the sites. She said that their commercial efforts, particularly the advertising aimed at children, could be crass. And she said that she advocates an old-fashioned alternative to the sites.
 ''If you're lucky enough to have a kid next door,'' she said, ''I'd have a play date instead of letting your kid sit at the computer.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Presleigh Montemayor, 9, likes the Cartoon Doll Emporium. The site's dress-up dolls include, from top, Beyonce Knowles, Rudolph Giuliani and Johnny Depp. Hilary Duff, right, is on Stardoll. (Photo by Brian Harkin for The New York Times)
 Players at Stardoll.com can buy credits over their cellphones and use them to buy more clothes for dolls like the actor Will Smith. (pg. C5) Drawings Chart: ''Virtual Playgrounds'' Virtual-world sites for children are growing quickly, benefiting from word of mouth on the real-world playground. Here are three of the most popular sites. Club Penguin VISITORS APRIL '06: 794,000 APRIL '07: 4,073,000 Webkinz VISITORS APRIL '06: 325,000 APRIL '07: 3,879,000 Stardoll VISITORS APRIL '06: 367,000 APRIL '07: 1,241,000 (Source by Nielsen//NetRatings)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (73%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (73%); WEB SITES (72%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (59%); WILL SMITH (59%); HILARY DUFF (50%); JOHNNY DEPP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



107 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: The Dog Who Breathed a New Business

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
WHO would have thought that a middle-age couple who held government jobs and were a tad unsure what an entrepreneur was would make a small fortune from their beloved dog's bad breath?
 I'm kicking off my Web column on entrepreneurship with the story of Joe and Judy Roetheli (pronounced RATE-lee) of Kansas City, Mo., founders of S&M NuTec, maker of Greenies dog treats, because they were as clueless as they come about starting a business and yet, once they got it into their heads that they had a winning idea, they never lost heart.
 In other words, they are a case history of the American dream. If they could grab hold of it, perhaps you can, too. But be forewarned: Venturing out on your own isn't for the faint-hearted. Here's a crash course on what it takes to succeed. 
 First, it helps if you had an inventive streak as a child. Mrs. Roetheli, the daughter of a butcher-turned-insurance agent, for example, put on plays in her neighborhood, and besides charging an entrance fee, sold popcorn to her audience. Mr. Roetheli, who grew up poor on a farm on the edge of the Ozarks, raised his own hogs and learned a hard lesson when all 18 of his sows became infected with a disease that killed their offspring.
 The lesson wasn't to avoid risk, but to embrace it. ''You don't fail; you learn,'' he said.
 To my mind, the ultimate test of whether you're an entrepreneur is whether you can spot market opportunities that nobody else has noticed. (Please note: The product or service should be something people will actually buy.) For the Roethelis, the eureka moment came unbidden. After they married, she pursued a teaching career and he worked as an economist for the Department of Agriculture. Enter Ivan, their Samoyed, in 1996, when Mr. Roetheli was 48 and Mrs. Roetheli was 47 (and Ivan was 7). 
 ''He had really bad breath,'' Mr. Roetheli said. ''Judy kept after me to do something about it. But there was nothing on the market that worked.'' Over the course of just a few days, he developed a mixture of wheat, chlorophyll, vegetable oil and other edible foods that he served dry (and later molded into a bone with a toothbrush at one end). Ivan was more or less a willing guinea pig, and within days, his teeth were clean and the odor gone.
 Mr. Roetheli quit his job and he and his wife threw themselves full-time into marketing their canine halitosis cure. Here is where another entrepreneurial compulsion kicked in: pit-bull tenacity. He worked the phones from morning to night, and the couple made fruitless treks to every single bank within 70 miles of their home -- well over 100, pleading for a $250,000 loan.
 ''We thought they probably laughed their heads off after we left,'' Mrs. Roetheli said. ''But O.K. We were going to keep going. We refused to give up.''
 For three years, they earned nothing. To keep their fledgling enterprise afloat, they begged money from ''family, friends and fools,'' as Mr. Roetheli put it, and racked up $200,000 in credit card debt.
 Even as they were fighting against disillusionment, they displayed another attribute critical to entrepreneurial survival, what the experts call ''tolerance for ambiguity'' and the rest of us call winging it. ''We had no business experience, no sales experience, no marketing experience, no manufacturing experience, no quality-control experience,'' Mr. Roetheli told me. ''After we got started, we had no budget, no organizational charts, no technical planning, no media advertising.''
 Was that a boastful tone I detected? If so, he earned it. Things began falling into place. A raw-materials supplier saw promise in their product and let their debt to him pile up. The Roethelis reeled in a talented staff with the lure of future rewards, not fat salaries. Sales picked up, then soared. Fast-forward: when they sold S&M NuTec to Mars Inc. a year ago for an undisclosed price, it was the eighth-largest pet-food company in the world.
 Why did they sell it? Because they were, or had become, entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs like to create businesses (a k a have fun). They tend to shun the details of managing their ventures (think ''boring''). The bottom line is they want to run their own show. Once they make their escape from the office, they can't conceive of reporting to a boss again, not even to a chief executive they themselves hired.
 Flush with cash, the Roethelis today are fulfilling yet another entrepreneurial imperative, wading into a hodgepodge of ventures, about 10 in all, from creating a village for homeless people in a developing country, to building a spa in Kansas City with a ''floatation room'' that they say is the ultimate in relaxation therapy, to acquiring a maker of equipment for smoking and grilling meats, to forming a partnership with a home remodeler to commercialize products he has developed. 
 ''Whenever we describe any of those products to people,'' Mr. Roetheli said, ''they smack themselves on the forehead and say, 'Why didn't I think of that?' '' 
 So far, I have discussed half a dozen entrepreneurial patterns. Then again, I've written a book that asserts there are eight core attributes. Other people have come up with inventories of anywhere from 2 to 50. Joe Roetheli rattled off seven, starting with, ''Have a dream.'' A serial entrepreneur in New York City practically shouted in the phone at me, ''There's only one that counts: passion!'' Carl Schramm, chief executive of the Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City and author of ''The Entrepreneurial Imperative,'' puts risk-taking high up on his scale.
 Americans are entrepreneurial in their bones, Mr. Schramm says, and there is a reason that 7 out of 10 of us will start a business at some point in our lives. We aren't afraid of failure, and in fact seem to thrive on it. ''Failure in Holland, Germany, France is a disaster,'' he said. ''But in this country, if your business becomes a shipwreck, nobody holds it against you. Some people value you even more.''
 What tops your list? Send me an e-mail, tell me what you think the defining entrepreneurial characteristic is, explain why and tell a story that illustrates it. If your yarn makes me laugh out loud, or fight tears, I'll quote you in a future column. Your 15 minutes of fame await you.
 Send comments to: inthehunt@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PET FOODS (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (72%); SPOT MARKET (68%); INSURANCE (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%) MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



108 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Service Industries' Expansion Picked Up Pace Last Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Service industry expansion unexpectedly accelerated last month to the highest level in more than a year, a sign the economy is strengthening.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of nonmanufacturing businesses, including banks, builders and retailers, rose to 59.7 in May, from 56 in April. Readings above 50 point to growth in services. 
 Service businesses, which make up almost 90 percent of the economy, are providing enough momentum to overcome the effects of the housing slump, economists said. 
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said yesterday that while housing would be a drag on growth for longer than policy makers previously anticipated, the slowdown has not spilled over into other parts of the economy.
 ''This is certainly reflective of the upturn the economy's taken in the second quarter as both the pace of housing market decline has slowed and the magnitude of the inventory overhang has shrunk,'' said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. 
 The institute, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., said its index of new orders for nonmanufacturing industries rose to 57.4 in May from 55.5 in April. A measure of prices paid rose to 66.4 from 63.5.
 An index of employment rose to 54.9 from 51.9, and a gauge of inventories rose to 61 from 52. An index of backlogs fell to 48 from 50 the prior month, the figures showed.
 Housing remains an area of weakness in the services sector. While a government report showed sales of new homes surged in April, industry data for home resales showed sales fell in April to the lowest level in almost four years.
 Mr. Bernanke, speaking via satellite yesterday to a conference in Cape Town, said the housing slump had not spilled over into other parts of the economy and he maintained a forecast for ''moderate'' growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); NEW ORDERS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); RETAILERS (72%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (69%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (69%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (65%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



109 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: CHASTISING PUTIN, BUSH SAYS RUSSIA DERAILS REFORM

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: PRAGUE, June 5 

 BODY:
President Bush delivered a two-pronged message to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Tuesday, two days before their scheduled meeting in Germany, chiding Mr. Putin for derailing democratic reforms while assuring the Russian leader that he had nothing to fear from a missile defense system in Europe.
 Mr. Bush issued the human rights rebuke on the first day of an eight-day swing through Europe, in a venue laden with symbolism: a conference on democracy co-led by the former Soviet dissident, Natan Sharansky. Democracy advocates and dissidents from 17 countries had gathered in Czernin Palace, in the very room where the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact was dissolved, to hear Mr. Bush speak.
After a lengthy discourse on freedom as a ''moral imperative,'' in which he chronicled human rights abuses around the globe, from Myanmar to North Korea to Sudan, Mr. Bush turned his attention to Russia and China, linking them as countries whose relationships with the United States, he said, were strong, but also complex. 
 ''China's leaders believe that they can continue to open the nation's economy without opening its political system; we disagree,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In Russia, reforms that were once promised to empower citizens have been derailed, with troubling implications for democratic development.''
 It was a more negative assessment than Mr. Bush has made in the past, and in likening Russia to China Mr. Bush risked arousing Mr. Putin's ire.
 The comparison to China was ''a pretty significant step at the rhetorical level for the Bush administration,'' said Andrew Kuchins, the director of the Russia Eurasia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
 That was especially the case because the criticism came out of the mouth of Mr. Bush, rather than another member of his administration. Last year, when Mr. Bush met with critics of the Kremlin, he told them that he had concerns about the state of democracy in Russia but would not lecture Mr. Putin about them publicly.
 Mr. Putin is already up in arms over the president's plan to build a network of radar and missile defenses in Poland and here in the Czech Republic, though Mr. Bush said Tuesday that Mr. Putin need not view the proposal as a threat.
 ''My message will be, Vladimir -- I call him Vladimir -- that you shouldn't fear a missile defense system,'' Mr. Bush said during a morning appearance with the leaders of the Czech Republic at Prague Castle, high on a hill overlooking the city. ''As a matter of fact, why don't you cooperate with us on a missile defense system? Why don't you participate with the United States?''
 Reaction from the Kremlin was muted. Mr. Putin's spokesman, Dmitri Peskov, said in a telephone interview that Mr. Putin ''has always appreciated the openness of President Bush,'' though he added, ''Of course, we cannot agree with some of the things that were said.''
 The back-to-back speeches were orchestrated by the White House with the intent of sending a measured, but firm, message to Mr. Putin when American-Russian relations are at their lowest point in years. Mr. Bush has often spoken of the need to promote democracy, and by sounding that theme before an especially receptive crowd, the speech also offered the president a rare escape from criticism over his policies in Iraq. 
 ''The most powerful weapon in the struggle against extremism is not bullets or bombs -- it is the universal appeal of freedom,'' Mr. Bush said, speaking to an audience that included Vaclav Havel, the first president of the Czech Republic, and Cheol Hwan-kang, the author of ''The Aquariums of Pyongyang,'' an account of 10 years he had spent as a child in a North Korean concentration camp.
 ''Freedom is the design of our maker, and the longing of every soul,'' Mr. Bush continued. ''Freedom is the best way to unleash the creativity and economic potential of a nation. Freedom is the only ordering of a society that leads to justice. And human freedom is the only way to achieve human rights.''
 In a sense, the speeches may have also been part of the White House strategy to have Mr. Bush clear the air with Mr. Putin in advance of Thursday's meeting between the two leaders at the gathering of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, in the Baltic seaside resort town of Heiligendamm, Germany.
 The two leaders are expected to confront disagreements over Kosovo, as well as human rights and missile defense, although they may find common ground over curbing Iran's nuclear ambitions. Mr. Bush has also invited Mr. Putin to the Bush family compound in Maine early next month -- an unusual effort by the White House to mend fences with the Russian leader. Kennebunkport is the home of Mr. Bush's parents, and no foreign leader has received an invitation to visit since Mr. Bush's father was in office.
 Mr. Bush's approach, however, drew criticism from two Russian opposition leaders: Andrei Illarianov, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington and Mr. Putin's former economics adviser; and Garry Kasparov, the onetime chess champion who heads the United Civil Front, a political party devoted to promoting democratic freedoms.
 Mr. Illarianov warned that the West ''does not have a widely accepted and effective strategy'' for dealing with Mr. Putin. 
 Mr. Kasparov, who is widely regarded as a potential presidential candidate in Russia, warned ''If Bush hopes to gain anything by having private discussions with Putin, he's wrong. Putin thrives in an atmosphere of secrecy. He's a K.G.B. spy -- anything behind closed doors gives him an advantage.''
 Mr. Kasparov said that he wished Mr. Bush would echo the much sharper criticism of Russia put forth by David Kramer, the deputy assistant secretary of state for European and Asian affairs, who delivered a blistering assessment of the Kremlin's human rights record in a speech last week in Baltimore. ''These are the things that must be pronounced by George W. Bush,'' Mr. Kasparov said.
 But the White House has said it wants to tamp down the vocal sparring between the nations. Mr. Putin has been jabbing at the Bush administration for weeks; he made a veiled comparison of the United States to the Third Reich, complained of ''diktat and imperialism,'' and warned he would have no choice but to point Russia's own missiles at Europe if the United States followed through with the missile defense system.
 The remarks, in an interview published Monday, instantly evoked memories of the cold war, and Mr. Putin did little to discourage that comparison, saying, ''We are, of course, returning to those times.''
 But Mr. Bush, standing alongside President Vaclav Klaus and Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek of the Czech Republic, pointedly dismissed any talk of a return to those hair-trigger days. The Czech leaders both support the missile plan, and a vote in Parliament is expected this year.
 ''The cold war is over,'' the president declared. ''It ended. The people of the Czech Republic don't have to choose between being a friend of the United States and a friend of Russia. You can be both.''
 Mr. Bush left Prague on Tuesday evening for Heiligendamm, where he is to meet with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Wednesday to discuss the major agenda topic of the Group of 8 meeting: climate change. After the meeting, Mr. Bush plans a side trip to Poland -- a move that will effectively bookend Thursday's Bush-Putin meeting with presidential trips to both nations that figure into the missile defense plan. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush speaking yesterday in Prague, where he criticized President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. (Photo by Jim Watson/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); POLAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



110 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: British Grocer Set to Tackle U.S. Market

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Britain's largest retailer, Tesco, is finally ready for its American debut.
 It has sent executives to board with American families, watching what they eat and where they shop. The scouts have built a clandestine store inside a California warehouse to test the reactions of selected people, telling any busybodies who inquired that it was a movie set. They have run computer models and pored over economic data and mapped demographic trends.
And, of course, they have sized up the competition. 
 ''We've been looking at the U.S. for 20 years,'' said Greg Sage, a spokesman at the company's headquarters in Cheshunt, England.
 This year, the company will begin showing the results: neighborhood convenience stores called Fresh and Easy, selling mostly food, in Los Angeles, Phoenix, Las Vegas and San Diego.
 It may sound like a modest parry for a company known for bold thrusts, but Tesco is treading lightly where other big British retailers have fallen before.
 For example, the supermarket chain J Sainsbury left the American market in 2004, and the venerable dry goods retailer Marks & Spencer sold Brooks Brothers in 2001 for less than a third what it paid 13 years earlier. 
 Other retailers have found the United States perilous, too. The Dutch supermarket giant Royal Ahold has faced a series of crises, from accounting irregularities to restive unions, at its American operations.
 The Tesco strategy can be considered an end run around the world's other giant retailers, Wal-Mart and Carrefour, which have recently been withdrawing from difficult markets after a race to plant flags in as many countries as possible.
 Wal-Mart's growth at its superstores has faded while Carrefour is pulling back to concentrate on thinning margins in France, its home market. Tesco, meanwhile, is at the top of its game in Britain, where its business is generating plenty of cash for investment overseas. Tesco knows that confronting Wal-Mart head-on in Wal-Mart's home market would be suicidal. By slipping in through a neglected niche, Tesco hopes to build a business where even Carrefour fears to tread.
 ''One of the dangers for any company producing a lot of cash flow from their home market is that they invest poorly overseas,'' said Alastair Johnston, a retail analyst at JPMorgan. ''That has not been the case for Tesco as it has been for Carrefour and Wal-Mart.''
 Tesco hopes to avoid the pitfalls that have tripped up other foreign retailers in the United States by starting small and growing organically rather than entering the market with a splashy acquisition. Still, it will spend $500 million on the new stores this year, and analysts predict that figure will grow to nearly $1 billion annually within two or three years.
 ''They are one of the few food-retailing expansion success stories internationally,'' said Tim Attenborough, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.
 The company has long been a household name in Britain, and since the mid-1990s has been expanding into markets overseas. It now operates in a dozen countries, including China, Turkey and Poland. It has four basic store formats, from corner convenience stores to hypermarkets a la Wal-Mart. 
 Fresh and Easy will be based on the company's Tesco Express or Metro stores in Britain, though with a local twist that Tesco prides itself on using in international markets.
 The company will not yet say what that twist will be in the United States, though the stores will be geared toward southwestern American sensibilities, offering a ''fresh&easy'' line of branded products free of trans fats, artificial colors or artificial flavors.
 ''They'll be neighborhood markets of 10 to 15,000 square feet, offering fresh, nutritious, affordable food close to where people live,'' Mr. Sage said. The stores, a fifth the size of an average American supermarket, will offer an expanded range of chilled, rather than frozen or hot, ready-to-eat foods, a market that is much more developed in Britain than the United States.
 Tesco is building an 800,000-square-foot distribution center (the size of 14 football fields) on a former Air Force base near Riverside, Calif., and has moved 150 employees to its regional headquarters in El Segundo, Calif. The team is led by Tim Mason, a 25-year company veteran and possible successor to the chief executive of Tesco, Terry Leahy. It is the first time Tesco has sent a main board member to develop a new market overseas.
 Tesco has begun recruiting local employees, hoping to avoid California's tough unions -- for that could be a real vulnerability. Already, the powerful United Food and Commercial Workers International Union has begun a low-key campaign to stop Tesco stores from getting liquor licenses in Arizona.
 But Tesco is ducking the most serious barrier -- competition by other big food retailers -- by entering at an unexpected point in the market.
 ''They are not going head-to-head with Wal-Mart or with the big supermarket operators,'' Mr. Attenborough said. ''They have seen a niche opportunity in the market on the West Coast where they think they can make some serious money.''
 Its direct competition, analysts say, include Trader Joe's and Famima minimarkets, both also foreign-owned, by Germans and Japanese, respectively. But Tesco is expected to move faster than either of those chains. There are only about a dozen Famima stores in California, and Trader Joe's, which has been around for many years, has about 220 stores so far, many in California. Analysts expect Tesco to pass that number within three or four years.
 ''This is their best-researched project ever,'' said Mr. Attenborough, the Exane BNP Paribas analyst, adding that the company is hoping for a 15 percent return on its investment. That would allow the American operation to finance further expansion on its own. 
 Tesco has said that it expects its United States operation to break even by the end of 2009. ''I think this business can have a turnover of more than $4 billion in five years,'' Mr. Attenborough said. 
 The investment world has cheered Tesco's move. Berkshire Hathaway, controlled by Warren E. Buffett, took a 2 percent stake in the company after it announced its American expansion plans. 
 And the stock has been steadily rising, closing Tuesday in London at 450 pence ($8.94), though that is slightly below its peak on May 14 of 472.25. 
 Wal-Mart, meanwhile, has been put on notice. As Tesco learns more about the American market, JPMorgan noted, ''We would not be surprised if it looks to add larger supermarket formats, or even hypermarkets.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tesco, a British food retailer, hopes outlets like this one in the Chelsea section of London will do well as Fresh and Easy stores in America. (Photo by Steve Forrest for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); TRENDS (76%); CASH FLOW (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (56%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: TESCO PLC (96%); KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (91%); CARREFOUR SA (85%); MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (84%); J SAINSBURY PLC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SCOUT ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: TSCO (LSE) (96%); AHOE (FRA) (91%); AH (BIT) (91%); AH (AMS) (91%); CRR (BIT) (85%); CA (PAR) (85%); MKS (LSE) (84%); SBRY (LSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (74%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



111 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Health Care As if Costs Didn't Matter

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In a saner world, the place where you live wouldn't have much effect on how doctors treated your back problems. In our world, it can make all the difference.
 In Idaho Falls, Idaho, anyone suffering from the sort of lower back pain that may conceivably be helped by the fusing of two vertebrae is quite likely to have the surgery. It's known as lumbar fusion, and the rate at which it is performed in Idaho Falls is almost five times the national average. The rate in Idaho Falls is 20 times that in Bangor, Me., where lumbar fusion is less common than anywhere else.
These numbers come from the wonderful Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care. The Dartmouth researchers adjust the numbers to take into account age, race and sex, which is another way of saying that there is no good explanation for the huge variations they find. Doctors in the Idaho Falls area are probably just being more aggressive than doctors elsewhere. 
 But it's not clear that their patients are any better off. The evidence for lumbar fusion is incredibly mixed. It seems to help people with certain kinds of pain, but many others recover just as well without the surgery. Of course, doctors are almost always better off if the surgery is done: The typical hospital bill for lumbar fusion is roughly $50,000. 
 This is about as good an example as you can find of the health care mess. The number of lumbar fusions performed in this country has more than tripled since the early 1990s, and Medicare now spends more than $600 million a year on the procedure. It's one reason your health insurance bill has gone up.
 Now stop and ask yourself a quick question about the lumbar fusion story: Does it have anything to do with the fact that almost 50 million people in this country don't have health insurance? Clearly, it does not. And that's precisely the problem with the current debate over health care reform.
 After more than a decade in the wilderness, health care has returned to the center of the political discussion. But the only topic getting any serious attention is universal health insurance. It's the entire point of the ambitious new program in Massachusetts and a similar proposal in California. Universal coverage has dominated both the news media's coverage of the Democratic presidential candidates' reform ideas and the candidates' own jockeying over those ideas.
 In a debate in New Hampshire on Sunday night, John Edwards needled Barack Obama for offering a plan that wasn't ''completely universal.'' (A fair criticism.) Mr. Obama's aides like to counter that Mr. Edwards is underestimating the cost and logistical difficulties of covering every last person. (That's probably fair, too.) People in both campaigns are fond of pointing out that Hillary Clinton still hasn't come up with her own plan for universal coverage. In the 2008 campaign, expanded health insurance is apparently the new ''middle class'': there's an arms race to see who can be most in favor of it. 
 Let me add my name to the list of fans before the e-mail starts pouring in. Universal coverage is a great idea. The unlikely crew of Democratic state legislators, Republican governors and Democratic presidential candidates who have forced the issue onto the agenda deserve enormous credit. A world where everyone could afford health insurance -- where no one had to choose between fixing a cavity and paying the rent -- would be a much better place.
 But if we are really at the start of a once-in-a-generation push to fix health care, we need to be clear about the true problem. The main reason so many people lack health insurance is because of its cost. And a big reason for that cost is the explosion of expensive, medically questionable care, be it knee replacement, preventive angioplasty or lumbar fusion. The route to an affordable health insurance solution runs straight through this thicket. 
 Along these lines, the three leading Democratic candidates have quietly come up with nearly identical ideas. Deep inside their health care plans, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Obama have each called for the creation of a national institute to figure out which kinds of medical care actually work. This institute would sort through the scientific research on, say, spinal fusion and help people understand when it may make sense and when it's likely to be just another big medical expense that doesn't solve anything.
 Medicare and private insurers could then use the research findings to determine when a procedure or a drug would be covered. There would be room for exceptions, based on a doctor's judgment. In general, though, a doctor and a patient could proceed with dubious treatment only if they didn't stick the rest of us with the bill.
 So far, the candidates have been careful to describe the institute as a place that would merely collect and distribute information, not one with the power to block wasteful spending. To pay for expanded health insurance, they are instead focusing on unobjectionable (and unproven) ways to save money, like computerized medical records. ''None of the candidates have offered a specific plan to seriously rein in the growth of health care costs,'' says Jonathan Skinner, an economist at Dartmouth who works on the Atlas of Health Care.
 But campaign advisers acknowledge that any institute will ultimately help set insurance payments, and they are not the only ones pushing the idea. Peter Orszag, the head of the Congressional Budget Office, has mentioned it when talking about the fiscal disaster that awaits if Medicare spending isn't slowed. A number of Republican health care experts also favor some sort of cost-effectiveness institute. It's another way to cut wasteful government spending.
 Still, we shouldn't be naive: a lot of people would lose if medical care came to be based more on what actually worked. Right now, drug companies and medical device makers can go to the Food and Drug Administration and get approval for an expensive new product so long as they show that it's as effective as its predecessor. They can then turn around and suggest to doctors that the new product is more effective than its predecessor. The doctors often profit, too. And many patients demand the latest, most expensive procedure, regardless of the evidence.
 So reforming the system will require a fight -- not just over the meaning of the word ''universal'' but also over finding tough, sensible ways to save money. As David Cutler, one of the Obama campaign's health care advisers, said, ''These things are really hard, so they ought to be in the foreground.''
 The simple truth is that medical spending can't continue to rise at its current rate. Somehow, we need to make choices. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Runaway Health Costs'' Peter Orszag, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, has used a version of this chart in recent talks. He says that if medical spending continues growing at its recent pace, it will take up a much larger share of the economy and could overwhelm the federal budget. Graph tracks federal spending on Medicaid and Medicare from 1970-2030. (2007 onward are projections.) Health costs continue to grow faster than income Costs grow only from aging population (Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); MEDICARE (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); PETER ORSZAG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGOR, ME, USA (57%) IDAHO, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); MAINE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



112 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Silence = Despotism

BYLINE: By Alejandro Toledo. 
Alejandro Toledo, the president of Peru from 2001 to 2006, is a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University and the president of the Center for Democracy and Development in Latin America in Lima, Peru.

DATELINE: STANFORD, CALIF. 

 BODY:
POLITICAL democracy will take root in Latin America only when it is accompanied by economic and social democracy. Likewise, Latin Americans will be able to achieve sustained economic growth and eliminate extreme poverty only when our political systems are free and fair for all.
 The ability of our citizens -- all of them -- to be heard is an integral part of this process. If freedom of speech is restricted in one of our countries, silence could spread to other nations, especially those with leaders who wish to be permanently flattered. 
Today, the people of one of our sister nations, Venezuela, are in the streets confronting repression. Courageous students raise flags of freedom, refusing to mortgage their future by remaining silent in the present. The situation began on May 28, when President Hugo Chavez refused to renew the license of Radio Caracas Television, or RCTV, thereby suppressing the most prominent outlet for critics of his leadership. 
 This is about more than one TV station. President Chavez has become a destabilizing figure throughout the hemisphere because he feels he can silence anyone with opposing thoughts. He wishes to hear only his own voice, to see his own face replicated a thousand times on the television channels that he controls. He ignores the fact that the true revolution of our era consists of listening to others rather than silencing them through repression or government decrees. 
 The rest of Latin America's leaders cannot remain indifferent to the closing of RCTV or to Mr. Chavez's threats to close other media outlets that give time to opposing opinions. Those of us who confronted authoritarianism in the past must again stand up for continent-wide solidarity. 
 This should be a perfect moment: this week the Organization of American States holds its annual general assembly in Panama. Unfortunately, the RCTV issue was not on the official agenda of the plenary session. 
 This is a shame -- it falls well within the confines of the organization's charter, which holds that ''when situations arise in a member state that may affect the development of its democratic political institutional process or the legitimate exercise of power,'' the O.A.S. ''will undertake a collective assessment of the situation and, where necessary, may adopt decisions for the preservation of the democratic system and its strengthening.''
 The stakes here go well beyond Venezuela and Mr. Chavez. I know this from experience. Before my presidency, Peru was submerged in severe authoritarianism. Much of the news media had entered into serious collusion with the authoritarian government of President Alberto Fujimori in the 1990s. After my election, some of those TV stations and newspapers voiced strident opposition to my democratic administration and challenged my authority and legitimacy. 
 Yet it never occurred to me to silence these media outlets or to nationalize them -- though it would have been easy to fall prey to populist temptations. I recognize how difficult it is to govern democratically. This is a challenge that faces all the leaders of our region. Presidents may be elected democratically, but it is more important to govern democratically, even with an opposing press that reports different opinions. 
 When one voice is silenced, we all become mute. When one thought is eliminated, we all lose some awareness. And when a space for the expression of ideas becomes closed, we all become trapped in the dungeons of dictatorship. The authoritarian populism of Venezuela strives to convert all of the people of Latin America into silent citizens, and we cannot permit this. 
 Latin America's common enemies are poverty, inequality and exclusion -- not dissident thought. Hunger is not fought by silencing critics. Unemployment does not disappear by exiling those who think differently. We cannot have bread without liberty. We cannot have nations without democracy.
 In sharing my convictions about democracy and social justice, I do not mean to single out one nation or leader. I am simply exercising my democratic right as a Latin American citizen, a right for which countless people from all our nations have been imprisoned, tortured and killed in recent decades. 
 One of the greatest lessons I learned in my political career was to always be respectful of opinions that differ from my own. Yet I will never agree with those who prefer silence instead of dissonant voices. Those of us who embrace liberty and democracy must stand ready to work in solidarity with the Venezuelan people.
 I hope that the legitimate governments of Latin America, and their representatives to the Organization of American States, will stand with me. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Patrick Leger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (79%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



113 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Economic Benefits Of Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Legalizing gay marriage would bring New York City $142 million in economic benefits over the first three years, according to an economic analysis released yesterday by William C. Thompson, the comptroller. Mr. Thompson, a likely candidate for mayor in 2009, wrote in the report that the benefits would come mainly from increased spending of residents and visitors on their weddings, including items like hotel stays. DIANE CARDWELL 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (84%); MAYORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



114 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Looking Beyond L. L. Bean

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

DATELINE: FREEPORT, Me. 

 BODY:
Downtown Freeport hardly looks like a place that needs to reinvent itself. Perhaps best known as the home of L. L. Bean's three large retail outposts, it also offers luxury names like Burberry, Cole Haan and Polo Ralph Lauren and dozens of well-appointed outlets.
 With its quaint old-New England storefronts and strict design codes (even the local drive-through McDonald's here is tucked into an old colonial home), the town attracts some 3.5 million visitors a year. 
 Still, retail development has been growing rapidly elsewhere in Maine, notably in nearby Portland and in Kittery, an hour away. At the same time, other outdoor outfitters, like Cabela's of Sidney, Neb., have been moving into New England. 
 In an effort to stay ahead of the competition, town officials recently approved the development of a $45 million open-air pedestrian-friendly ''lifestyle center,'' basically a shopping center without walls, to be built on a 3.6-acre site owned by L. L. Bean.
 ''We want to revitalize Freeport,'' said Dale C. Olmstead Jr., the town manager. ''We want to reinvent ourselves.''
 Spearheading the center is Berenson Associates, a Boston-based shopping center developer. Until this spring, the site was home to L. L. Bean's outlet store, a parking lot and the long-vacant historic Mallet office building. Berenson plans to keep the Mallet Building, but the old outlet center is already being demolished.
 Alfred R. Yebba, Berenson's chief operating officer and the development director for the new center, said one goal was to provide the kind of modern single-floor retail space that is needed to lure larger retailers and restaurants to Freeport. Store space here now tends to run from 2,000 to 5,000 square feet and is often cloistered away in either old multistory buildings or colonial-style homes.
 Berenson, he said, is in the final stages of negotiations with some half-dozen nationally recognized retailers that sell clothing, footwear and accessories. 
 By many accounts, downtown Freeport is already an area where shoppers almost always walk, rather than drive, to nearby stores. ''We think a lifestyle center already exists here in Freeport -- we're just trying to build a new wing,'' said Sean K. Selby, an architect at Arrowstreet, a design and planning company in Somerville, Mass., which is working with Berenson.
 The plans call for the center to have a retail plaza with three large two-story buildings surrounding two smaller buildings appropriate for boutiques and kiosks. It would have an old-style clock tower and other features to give it a traditional New England look. 
 Mr. Yebba said one large retail building would have about 13,000 square feet of restaurant space, possibly including a sports or entertainment bar, while a 60,000-square-foot building along Depot Street would offer space in the range of 10,000 to 20,000 square feet, possibly accommodating five large tenants.
 He added that all of the new retail tenants would be required to be open from 10 in the morning until 10 at night, and restaurant tenants, when possible, would have similar 12-hour shifts. Now, most of Freeport shuts down by 8 p.m. in the summer and 6 p.m. in the winter. ''We'd like to bring a little edge to town,'' he said. 
 Freeport officials say the town has been adding visitor attractions lately, like Maine Distilleries, purveyors of Cold River vodka, which opened on Route 1 about a mile south of downtown in November 2005 and pulled in almost 6,000 tour visitors during its first year.
 They would also like to see large conference facilities built, as well as more spaces for artists and performers, and perhaps even a movie theater. ''We have over 800 hotel rooms here now -- capacity has more than doubled in 10 years -- but now we want to round ourselves out as a destination,'' said Stephanie B. Slocum, executive director of the Freeport Economic Development Corporation. 
 Most visitors to Freeport start out at L. L. Bean's stores: a 160,000-square-foot flagship store, a large hunting and fishing store and, as of May 2006, a 16,500-square-foot bike, boat and ski store. 
 Gregory W. Boulos, a broker and partner at CB Richard Ellis/the Boulos Company in Portland, said that because of the way Bean's stores are positioned, most shoppers move southward along Main Street or eastward along Bow Street when they leave the stores. As a result, he said, drawing businesses north of the stores or off Bow Street can present a challenge. 
 Town officials hope that Freeport Village Station will be a draw eastward, to streets where retailers have previously struggled. Pedestrians would be able to enter the center from four different entrances, including an arched gateway off Main Street.
 Shoppers who come by car would enter on either Mill or Depot Street, to park in a two-level garage. The garage, a first for Freeport, would be large enough to hold 550 cars.
 Lately, L. L. Bean has also been trying to enhance its drawing power. It is in the process of almost doubling the size of its hunting and fishing offerings by adding space at the back of its Main Street flagship store.
 Once that store is moved, the company plans to install its outlet store, which is now in temporary quarters on Route 1, into the building that used to house the hunting and fishing store.
 Another plan is to rebuild a large park, along with a parking lot, to create a giant product-testing area where shoppers could try out mountain bikes, kayaks and skis and see product demonstrations. 
 The quickening pace of development oriented toward leisure travel has had fallout elsewhere in town. 
 This spring, town officials formally approved the conversion of a largely residential area east of the railroad tracks around Bow and South Streets to a mixed-use district. The aim is to foster higher-density housing development and encourage service businesses like dry-cleaning and video stores to move to the center of town.
 ''There was an overwhelming feeling here in the 1990s that people had lost their village and services'' at a time that ''the traditional village gave way to a shopping village,'' said Donna Larson, the town planner. ''The goal now is to create an opportunity for an alternate town center to emerge.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of the future Freeport, a Bean store in the center of town and more storefronts downtown. (Photos by Rendering by Arrowstreet
 photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); CITIES (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (72%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (70%); APPROVALS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



115 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Man Charged With Posing As A Lawyer

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
A Long Island man who worked as a lawyer at a major New York law firm for four years -- even though, prosecutors said, he had never gone to law school -- pleaded not guilty yesterday in State Supreme Court to charges of impersonating a lawyer and stealing at least $284,350 in salary from his firm. The man, Brian Valery, 32, of Massapequa Park, was promoted from paralegal to lawyer at the firm, Anderson Kill & Olick, in 2002, and was earning $155,000 plus bonuses when he was fired in October 2006, prosecutors said. His lawyer, Joseph R. Conway, said Mr. Valery, who is now unemployed, faced related charges in Connecticut and expected to have charges brought against him in Brooklyn. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (96%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); PARALEGALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); IMPERSONATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%)

COMPANY: REED SMITH LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



116 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: New Study Finds Gains Since No Child Left Behind

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Student achievement has increased and test score gaps between white students and black and Hispanic students have narrowed in many states since President Bush signed the No Child Left Behind law in 2002, according to a new survey of state scores in reading and math. 
 But the study, released yesterday by the Center on Education Policy, an independent Washington group that closely monitors the law, cautioned that ''it is difficult if not impossible to determine the extent to which these trends in test results have occurred because of N.C.L.B.'' 
 ''In most states with three or more years of comparable test data, student achievement in reading and math has gone up since 2002,'' the study found, even as it warned repeatedly against concluding that the federal law alone produced the results. 
 In the decade before the law was passed, many states had adopted policies aimed at raising achievement, like broadening access to early childhood programs, that could also be responsible for gains.
 The study also acknowledged that the increases in achievement recorded by many state tests had not been matched by results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, nationwide reading and math tests administered by the federal Department of Education. 
 Those results have been mixed. For example, on the national tests given in 2005, fourth-grade math scores showed an important increase over the previous test administration in 2003, and eighth-grade math scores rose slightly. But fourth-grade reading scores were the same on the nationwide test in 2005 as in 2002, and eighth-grade reading scores declined. 
 Despite its caveats, the new report is likely to be closely studied as Congress debates whether to reauthorize the law this year, partly because the report may be the most comprehensive study of state test scores in many years. The law is widely considered President Bush's most important domestic policy achievement.
 ''This study confirms that No Child Left Behind has struck a chord of success with our nations' schools and students,'' Education Secretary Margaret Spellings said yesterday. 
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who worked closely with the administration on the law, said the report ''proves that the goals at the heart of the No Child Left Behind Act -- a dedication to accountability and standards, a commitment to closing the achievement gap and a pledge to improve public schools -- are still the right ones for moving America forward.''
 Merely collecting the test data from 50 states proved to be a complex and frustrating task because many states' education departments are overworked and their test archives are flawed by missing or inconsistent data, the report said. ''The house of data on which N.C.L.B. is built is at times a rickety structure,'' it said.
 Those and other limitations notwithstanding, Jack Jennings, the center's president, said state test scores ''remain a more accurate barometer of what kids know'' than the national assessment, often referred to as the NAEP (pronounced nape). 
 ''The NAEP shouldn't be taken as the gold standard,'' Mr. Jennings said.
 Bruce Fuller, an education professor at the University of California at Berkeley who has compared state and federal achievement scores, said the report ''displays methodological weaknesses which lead to exaggerated inferences'' about student progress. 
 In analyzing state scores, the researchers who carried out the study did not consider all recent data from all states because, the report said, new tests and other factors in some states made it impossible to compare scores from one year with others. But Professor Fuller said the researchers appeared to have eliminated testing periods in some states that showed predominantly falling scores after 2002.
 ''It's like calculating the annual rate of economic growth over the past century after excluding the Great Depression years,'' Professor Fuller said. ''It upwardly biases their estimate of annual growth in test scores.''
 Robert L. Linn, an education professor emeritus at the University of Colorado at Boulder and a frequent critic of the law, served on a panel of five prominent testing and educational policy experts who advised the center on the study.
 ''I was a little surprised that things were generally as positive as they were, so it may be that I would say that N.C.L.B. is contributing more positively than I had given it credit for,'' Professor Linn said. But he urged readers to pay attention to the report's many caveats. 
 ''The reason for all the caveats is that it is impossible to reach the conclusion that if scores go up, it is because of N.C.L.B.,'' he said. ''There are so many other factors that could lead to rising scores, including state efforts to raise achievement, and also, some of these gains may be artificial. So my worry is that people who come at it and don't read the caveats will come away with an exaggerated impression.''
 Laura S. Hamilton, a senior behavioral scientist for the Rand Corporation who also served on the panel of experts, said, "Most people want to know if N.C.L.B. as a policy has resulted in improved student achievement,'' but added, ''It's a question that isn't answerable.'' She explained, ''To test whether some policy is effective, you'd want to compare what happened under that policy to what would have happened if the policy hadn't been enacted, and we can't do that with N.C.L.B. because all public schools in the nation were subject to its provisions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (91%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (91%); EDUCATION LAW (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007



117 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: More Fears On Inflation Hit Stocks

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
After rising almost uninterruptedly for three months, the stock market tumbled for a second day yesterday over fears that inflation is not settling down enough to satisfy the Federal Reserve.
 With long-term interest rates for government bonds flirting with the 5 percent level and Fed officials raising louder alarms over inflation, investors who only a few days ago were still counting on the Fed to cut its key short-term rate later this year are now starting to worry that borrowing costs could go even higher if price pressures continue to build.
 New Labor Department data for the first quarter showed yesterday that productivity gains were slower and labor costs rose three times faster than first calculated. While that was in part a statistical aberration because of stagnant growth during the winter, it was also seen as a sign that American businesses could be facing higher costs and lower profits down the road. 
 The labor cost numbers came as the White House released a new economic forecast that ratcheted up its estimate for inflation and predicted the job market would remain tight, with unemployment holding steady at 4.5 percent. The day before, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, had indicated that he was still concerned that underlying inflation remained ''somewhat elevated.''
 The cumulative effect was enough to make Tuesday and yesterday the worst two-day stretch on Wall Street since mid-March.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.9 percent, closing at 1,517.38, while the Dow Jones industrial average gave up nearly 1 percent, falling 129.79 points to 13,465.67. The Nasdaq composite fell by a similar amount. Since Tuesday, the S.& P. 500 is down 1.4 percent; the Dow is off 1.5 percent.
 I.B.M., Exxon Mobil, Cisco Systems and Pfizer led declines among major stocks, with all 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500 taking hits.
 Investors are starting to worry that they can no longer count on low interest rates to provide a benign environment for stocks.
 ''Already, core inflation has been running above the Fed's preferred range,'' said Dean M. Maki, chief United States economist of Barclays Capital, which has forecast two Fed rate increases before the end of the year. ''If wage pressures are intensifying as most recent data indicates they are, that is another reason to be concerned.''
 Bond yields retreated slightly yesterday, but the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, the benchmark for longer-term interest rates, flirted again with 5 percent before closing at 4.96 percent. It has not closed above 5 percent since last summer.
 Underscoring the Fed's concern about inflation, two central bank officials said in separate speeches yesterday that the rate of price increases was still running too hot to put them at ease.
 Jeffrey M. Lacker, who voted as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond to raise interest rates last year while his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee decided to keep them steady, said: ''No statistically significant moderating trend has emerged yet.'' 
 And Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, indicated that because inflation had not yet fallen as the Fed predicted it would, central bankers would remain on watch. ''We cannot afford to be complacent,'' she said.
 The Labor Department report released yesterday -- part of a series that the Federal Reserve closely monitors for signs of inflation -- found that unit labor costs rose 1.8 percent in the first quarter. The fourth-quarter figures, which were larger because of year-end bonuses, were also revised up, to 8.9 percent, from an earlier estimate of 6.2 percent.
 The report also showed that worker productivity grew less than first estimated, and at less than half the rate reported for the fourth quarter of last year. The output of the average American worker increased just 1 percent in the first quarter, compared with an earlier estimate of 1.7 percent. 
 Productivity growth had been growing relatively rapidly as the economy expanded. But with economic growth only 0.6 percent in the first quarter -- compared with 3.3 percent for all of last year -- productivity improvements have faltered. 
 Still, a number of economists said they expect that will change if growth, as expected, accelerates in the second half of the year.
 ''The bottom line is that productivity growth has slowed down in recent quarters, but has held up surprisingly well,'' Brian A. Bethune, an economist with Global Insight, said in a research note. ''An expected pickup in real growth in the second quarter and the second half of 2007 will deliver better productivity numbers.''
 The White House economists lowered their estimate for growth to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent, bringing it more in line with Wall Street's expectations. Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said that the slowdown in the first quarter caused the White House to lower its forecast for the year. But he said that the economy should regain momentum.
 ''We're actually expecting a pretty strong quarter right now,'' he said.
 While stronger economic growth could keep inflation pressures bubbling, it also could help bolster stock prices. Indeed, a number of analysts said that they expected the market to recover quickly from its recent dip.
 ''Two days does not a trend make,'' said Michael P. Ryan, who runs wealth management research for UBS, adding that the S.& P. 500 and the Dow both reached record highs on Monday. ''There's a natural tendency for markets to pull back when that happens.'' 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: ''U.S. Productivity'' Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992=100, seasonally adjusted. 4th quarter revised To: +2.1% Change at annual rate From: +1.6 (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



118 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: China Pledging Bid to Safeguard Food and Drugs

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 6 

 BODY:
Responding to growing international concerns about tainted food and counterfeit drugs, China said late Tuesday that it was overhauling its food and drug safety regulations and would introduce nationwide inspections.
 The announcement, from the State Council, the nation's highest administrative body, is the strongest signal yet that Beijing is moving to crack down on the sale of dangerous food and medicine and trying to calm fears that some of its exports pose health problems.
But the challenges facing China are enormous because its regulatory system is weak and enforcement is difficult. 
 The announcement follows a series of embarrassing episodes this year involving China's export of tainted pet food ingredients and toothpaste. The shipments of pet food ingredients, contaminated by the chemical melamine, set off one of the largest pet food recalls in United States history.
 In recent weeks, several countries, including the United States, Panama and Nicaragua, recalled or issued warnings about toothpaste made in China because it contained a toxic chemical called diethylene glycol.
 Last month, The New York Times reported that at least 100 people had died in Panama after taking medicine containing diethylene glycol that had been produced in China and exported as the harmless syrup glycerine.
 And a spokesman for the European Commission said on Wednesday that food safety officials there were investigating after Greece and Poland reported finding traces of melamine in corn gluten and rice protein imported from China, forcing the rejection of one shipment and the withdrawal of tainted feed from the market.
 While Beijing has strongly defended the quality and safety of its food and drug exports, and even denied that the toothpaste it exported was unsafe, government regulators at the same time have stepped up safety inspections and shut down companies accused of producing unsafe food or counterfeit drugs.
 But with pressure growing from regulators in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world, and international food companies expressing concern about the risks of importing Chinese-made food and feed ingredients, Beijing is pushing for a more forceful response to the crisis.
 In its announcement on Tuesday, which was posted on a government Web site, China said that the State Council had approved a new food and drug safety guarantee system on April 17 and that an outline of the program was being distributed to government agencies nationwide.
 The government said in its announcement that it planned by 2010 to place new controls on food and drug imports and exports and to step up random testing on medicines. It also said that it would have information on inspections of 90 percent of all food products, although it was unclear how that would work.
 The government said it also planned safety checks on a large majority of food makers and said that regulators would crack down on the sale of counterfeit drugs and medical devices.
 The government did not indicate whether it would provide more funds for the efforts or which agencies would carry out the bulk of the functions.
 In announcing the measures, the government hinted at its weakness in enforcement, saying that after five years a goal was that ''100 percent of the significant food safety accidents are investigated and dealt with'' and that ''80 percent of the food that needs to be recalled is recalled.''
 A few weeks ago, the government announced that it was planning to set up a food recall system.
 Also late Tuesday, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, which oversees food and drug exports, posted statements on its Web site about the issue.
 ''Recently, our country has had a series of export food problems, and that has triggered a lot of overseas attention about China's food safety,'' said Wei Chuanzhong, deputy director of the agency. ''This has put us on high alert, and led us to seriously look into the reasons for the problem.'' 
 Food and drug safety experts have complained for years about a flawed system that has led to food scares or mass poisonings tied to counterfeit or substandard medicines on the market.
 Much of the blame has centered on weak enforcement of the nation's food and drug regulations, as well as corruption, bribery and a business culture where counterfeiting thrives.
 China's food and drug administration, which is supposed to safeguard the nation's health, has also been implicated.
 Last week, a Chinese court handed down a death sentence against Zheng Xiaoyu, the head of the Food and Drug Administration in China from 1998 to 2005, after he pleaded guilty to bribery and corruption charges. The government also said that he had taken bribes to approve drug production licenses and that it was reviewing production licenses the agency had issued.
 Some experts say the new food and drug safety program suggests that the nation's top leaders are taking up the call for reforms and new enforcement measures.
 ''There's been concern for a while about food safety in this country, and now that there are growing concerns about China's international image, the State Council has decided to act,'' said Russell Leigh Moses, an analyst of Chinese politics who is based in Beijing. ''This may be a sign that everyone in the government ought to get in line.''
 But enforcement of the rules will be particularly difficult, partly because the economy is growing rapidly and because local officials accept bribes and sometimes allow small companies to flout regulations.
 Regulators here also say that many exporters of food and medicines are mislabeling goods and shipping them illegally. 
 Two weeks ago, food and drug safety issues were even on the table in Washington during the strategic economic dialogue presented by Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary.
 ''These are issues China has to deal with over time,'' said Rio D. Praaning, secretary general of the Public Advice International Foundation in Belgium, an advisory group that is working on food and drug safety issues around the world. ''But we can't wait. We have interim developments. We have patience, but frankly patience is out the window when people start dying.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A food vendor in Sichuan Province, China. China announced that it would strengthen standards for food and introduce nationwide inspections. (Photo by Color China/Associated Press)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG SAFETY (90%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); FOOD SAFETY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); PET FOODS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); FOOD RECALLS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); FOOD MFG (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (73%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (73%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); PANAMA (79%); GREECE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



119 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; China Finds a Fit With Car Parts; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: Export Factories Are Gearing Up To Challenge Global Suppliers

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: JINZHOU, China 

 BODY:
Zhao Qingjie's favorite book, he says, is a Chinese translation of Lee A. Iacocca's autobiography.
 Mr. Zhao, who runs one of the largest manufacturers of automotive starters and alternators in China, has long been interested in the United States. That should make his counterparts in the auto parts industry elsewhere very nervous.
 ''Entering the U.S. market is one of our key strategies,'' said Mr. Zhao, whose company, Wonder Auto Technology, has obtained a Wall Street stock listing and is preparing to start exporting.
 China's auto parts exports have increased more than sixfold in the last five years, nearly topping $1 billion in April and emerging as one of the fastest-growing categories of Chinese industrial products sold overseas. More than half of these auto parts go to the United States; most of the rest to Europe and Japan. 
 The rise of Chinese auto parts exports is part of a much broader shift. China is moving up from basic goods like textiles, toys and shoes and toward higher-value industrial goods that pay better wages -- but also compete more directly with products from countries like Mexico and even from advanced industrialized countries like the United States.
 Still, while China has room for considerable growth in auto parts exports to the United States, it is not competitive overseas in bulky products like car seats that are uneconomical to ship or need to be manufactured close to a car factory for quality-control reasons. And China's rising labor costs and strengthening currency are making automakers leery of becoming too dependent on China for parts that can be shipped. 
 The latest wave of auto parts exports is led by domestic Chinese auto parts manufacturers like Wonder Auto that are rapidly gaining strength and starting to enter markets around the globe.
 Domestic manufacturers like Wonder and the Wanxiang Group are relying on the same inexpensive Chinese assembly-line labor as multinationals like Delphi Automotive Systems and Visteon. But they can undercut the global giants in part by hiring talented but cheaper Chinese engineers and headquarters staff as well.
 Soaring output at auto assembly plants in China is generating enormous demand for auto parts and creating the economies of large-scale production previously possible only in North America, Europe and Japan. And with at least a half-dozen Chinese automakers planning to start exporting in the next few years, Chinese auto parts will soon be going overseas not just in crates, but as part of fully assembled cars.
 Multinational automakers set virtually the same quality standards for their operations all over the world. They are working closely with Chinese parts companies to help them meet these standards; once they do, they are allowed to submit bids for supplying factories elsewhere.
 ''They get put on the global list and then can quote for anything worldwide,'' said Nick Reilly, the president of Asian and Pacific operations for General Motors.
 Chinese auto parts have surged in the American market as imports have declined from Japan, Canada and Malaysia and have stagnated from Mexico and the European Union.
 China is strongest in electrical and electronic components and in cast-metal parts that require environmentally hazardous casting and a lot of manual labor for machining.
 Feeling the pinch are small auto parts manufacturers and their employees in the United States, heavily concentrated in Ohio and mainly supplying larger auto parts companies instead of shipping directly to the big automakers. 
 While overall American industrial production is on the upswing, the troubles of the auto parts industry could become an issue in next year's presidential elections. 
 Ohio elected a new Democratic senator in November, Sherrod Brown, who favors a more aggressive American trade and currency policy, including the filing of legal cases with the World Trade Organization challenging China's currency, labor and environmental policies.
 ''It's not a fair competition because over and over again in terms of currency and labor standards, China doesn't play by the same rules as we do in the United States,'' Senator Brown said.
 China is rapidly grabbing orders for replacement parts sold to repair garages. The Wanxiang Group of China is already building up its distribution in the United States by buying Neapco, a steering shaft company in Pottstown, Pa., and striking a deal with Ford in April to buy its prop shaft business.
 Many of these imports from China are simply replacing goods from other countries. New starters and alternators, for example, are no longer made in the United States, as production has moved to Mexico, Singapore, Malaysia and now China.
 But used starters and alternators are still remanufactured in the United States, reusing the costly copper wiring in each device and selling them in the $1.5 billion market for replacement starters and alternators. Companies in this business, like Motorcar Parts of America with its headquarters and main factory in Torrance, Calif., have been struggling to compete with imports of all-new starters and alternators.
 Mr. Zhao of Wonder Auto calculates that it costs him $4 million to set up an assembly line here in Jinzhou with mostly manual labor, employing 20 workers.
 The combined wages of 20 workers here come to only $40,000 a year at the current exchange rate of 7.65 yuan to the dollar. That is in the range of annual base pay for one unionized auto parts worker in the United States and comparable to two nonunion American auto parts workers. Mr. Zhao recently explored and rejected the idea of opening a factory in the United States, after calculating that it would cost $10 million to set up a heavily automated line that would employ three workers.
 Total benefits for 20 workers come to an additional $20,000 a year, Mr. Zhao said. 
 The company's wages of $170 a month remain respectable by the standards of this gritty refinery city of 800,000 in northeastern China. A small apartment without modern amenities like a refrigerator or air-conditioning rents for as little as $40 a month, while even a large meal at the restaurant of the city's best hotel costs less than $3.
 Jobs at Wonder Auto are much sought after and turnover is almost zero, said Sun Shaohua, 30, who strips copper wires for alternators, the devices that take mechanical energy from the engine and turn it into electricity to recharge the battery.
 ''Many people come, but nobody ever leaves,'' he said.
 Mr. Zhao said he was already in discussions with General Motors and Volkswagen about supplying their operations, first in China and then overseas. For now, Mr. Zhao mainly supplies domestic Chinese carmakers, notably Brilliance China Automotive, which has a high-roofed factory in Shenyang, a three-hour drive to the northeast, where workers in tan shirts and trousers labor at a modern assembly line.
 While China's auto parts industry is growing rapidly, automakers are nervous about buying all of their parts from China. They cite three important costs that are becoming increasingly unpredictable for any manufacturer doing business in China: labor costs, raw material costs and the exchange rate of the yuan against the dollar.
 Industrial wages are still low in China compared with wages in other car manufacturing countries. But Chinese wages have been soaring by 10 to 30 percent a year for the last several years, auto executives said. Skilled workers at car factories in high-income coastal areas can earn nearly twice as much as workers here in northeastern China, a rust belt of aging industrial complexes built with Soviet help in the 1950s.
 But even as China's labor cost advantage is narrowing, it is simultaneously creating a new advantage: lower material costs.
 As recently as four years ago, severe shortages within China of industrial commodities like high-quality steel resulted in high prices. Now the opposite is true: China has invested so much in new steel mills and other factories that it has become the world's largest steel maker and faces an increasing glut. 
 The biggest question mark hanging over China's exports lies in the currency exchange rate -- a problem that Japanese auto executives in particular know well after dealing with the yen-dollar exchange rate.
 China has allowed the yuan to appreciate only by 6 percent against the dollar in the nearly two years since breaking its fixed peg to the dollar. Chinese officials have repeatedly warned of their reluctance to accept faster appreciation.
 But Chinese foreign exchange reserves have ballooned to $1.2 trillion from $316 billion in the last four years as Beijing has bought dollars on an enormous scale to prop up demand for the American currency and prevent it from falling faster against the yuan.
 The question is how much longer Beijing can keep up these purchases, which require adroit handling to prevent them from causing inflation in China. Atsuyoshi Hyogo, who runs Honda's China operations, said that China had slightly lower costs than its Japanese counterparts at currently prevailing exchange rates, but he added that the Chinese currency should be much stronger than it was now.
 For all the uncertainty, Wonder Auto and other Chinese parts makers are growing quickly. Wonder's sales rose 45.8 percent in the first quarter, to $21.6 million; profits nearly doubled, to $2.7 million.
 Traded on the over-the-counter market in the United States, the company's shares have risen more than fivefold since an initial public offering last June; Wonder Auto has applied for a Nasdaq listing. The rapid rise has enriched Mr. Zhao, who owns 54.2 percent of the company's shares, worth more than $90 million, as well as 11 percent of another company in Jinzhou that manufactures air bag sensors.
 That is quite a change from his earlier life. Forced to spend three years on a farm during the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s, Mr. Zhao taught himself to fix tractors. Denied admission to a naval academy because his father was a Nationalist soldier before the Communists won China's civil war, Mr. Zhao went to a technical institute instead.
 He became a business professor and ran a state-owned motorcycle shock-absorber factory before starting Wonder Auto.
 Mr. Zhao said that he still worked 75 hours a week. His father died when Mr. Zhao was 6 years old, and for many years afterward he felt responsible for his two sisters and his mother.
 ''I had to let my mother know, in raising three kids, including a son, that it was all worth the hardship,'' Mr. Zhao said. ''As a boy from a small village, I want to make something of myself.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker assembling car alternators at the Wonder Auto Technology factory in Jinzhou in northeastern China. (Photo by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
''Entering the U.S. market is one of our key strategies,'' said Zhao Qingjie, the chief of Wonder Auto. Mr. Zhao says he works 75 hours a week.
 Wonder Auto calculates that it costs $4 million to set up an assembly line in Jinzhou with mostly manual labor, employing 20 workers. (Photographs by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)(pg. C9) Chart: ''Exporting Parts'' China's auto parts exports are soaring, posing a threat to parts manufacturers and their workers in other developing countries and in the United States, Europe and Japan. Graph shows Chinese exports of auto parts and accessories since 1996. (Source by China's General Administration of Customs, via CEIC)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%)

COMPANY: VISTEON CORP (58%); WONDER AUTO TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (52%)

TICKER: VC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3694 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (52%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIAONING, CHINA (88%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



120 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 895 words

 BODY:
 WARNING FOR TWO DIABETES DRUGS -- The Food and Drug Administration has called for the toughest safety warning on two diabetes drugs, Avandia and Actos. The decision comes a year after the agency's safety reviewers strongly recommended just such a step. It also occurs during a Congressional inquiry into why the agency delayed its warnings about Avandia. [Page A1.] 
 A medical researcher told a House hearing about name-calling and a veiled threat of a lawsuit by a drug company executive after the researcher had criticized Avandia. [A30.] CHINA TO OVERHAUL FOOD LAWS -- China said that it was overhauling its food and drug safety regulations and would introduce nationwide inspections. The announcement was a response to growing international concerns about tainted food and counterfeit drugs. [A1.] A BOOMING BUSINESS IN AUTO PARTS -- China's auto parts exports have increased more than sixfold in the last five years, nearly topping $1 billion in April, and are part of a broader shift as China moves up from basic goods like textiles and shoes toward higher-value industrial goods that compete directly with countries like the United States. [C1.] AUTOMAKERS OPPOSE ENERGY BILL -- The chief executives of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler met with Senate lawmakers, less than a week before Democrats plan a vote on a sprawling energy bill, and asserted that the bill's proposed increase in mileage requirements would be impossible to meet and would gravely damage the industry. [C1.] BUILDING A BETTER PATENT SYSTEM -- The Bush administration wants to revamp the nation's patent system, requiring better information from inventors and allowing public scrutiny of applications, according to the patent office's chief. The goal, said Jon W. Dudas, above, the director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, is to improve the quality of patents and curb the rising wave of patent disputes and lawsuits. [C3.] LESSONS FROM LONDON -- The Bancroft family, owners of a controlling interest in Dow Jones, is trying to learn from the lessons of The Times of London as they attempt to come up with a system for keeping The Wall Street Journal's newsroom independent of Rupert Murdoch, the head of the News Corporation who has bid to buy the company. [C1.] INTEREST RATE JITTERS -- For the second consecutive day, Wall Street recoiled at the prospect that inflation would not settle down enough to suit the Federal Reserve. And investors appeared to worry not only that interest rates will stay where they are, but that the Fed could raise them even higher. [C1.] RABBIT EARS WILL NEED SOME HELP -- A broadcasters group unveiled two versions of devices that television viewers will need beginning Feb. 17, 2009, if they use rabbit ears or rooftop antennas to receive their television signal. On that date, stations must switch from traditional analog signals to digital broadcasting. [C3.] ASTRAZENECA EXECUTIVE LEAVING -- AstraZeneca, Britain's second-largest drug maker after GlaxoSmithKline, said that its chief financial officer was leaving to join to Goldman Sachs, one of AstraZeneca's corporate brokers, as a managing director. Jon Symonds, who joined Zeneca from KPMG in 1997 and was instrumental in the $30 billion merger with Astra of Sweden a year later, will step down at the end of July. [C5.] BUSH OPPOSES EMISSION TARGETS -- The White House said it would hold firm against concrete long-term targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, a major priority for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, the host of this week's Group of 8 meeting. [A14.] EUROPEAN RATE GOES UP -- The European Central Bank raised borrowing costs to their highest level in nearly six years, pointing to a humming economy that, while welcome, raised the risk of higher inflation. European stock markets fell. [C5.] ORIENTING ELECTRONICS TO WOMEN -- Making a consumer electronic product more appealing to women no longer means offering a pink or pastel version. More manufacturers are discovering that feminizing technology is more about a product's fundamentals, often expressed in its ease of use. [C7.] PRUDENTIAL CLOSES RESEARCH UNIT -- Prudential Financial decided to close its small, struggling equity research and sales business. About 420 people will be laid off. [C3.] CITIGROUP TO PAY $15 MILLION FINE -- NASD, a regulator of brokerage firms, said that Citigroup will pay $15.2 million to settle claims that its brokers had coaxed employees of the BellSouth Corporation into retiring early on exaggerated projections for investment returns. [C4.] FENDI SETTLES WAL-MART SUIT -- Fendi, the Italian fashion designer and maker of luxury products, settled a lawsuit against Wal-Mart Stores that contended the retailer had sold counterfeit handbags and wallets in its Sam's Club stores. [C9.] CBS RELENTS AFTER SERIES PROTEST -- CBS reversed course three weeks after canceling the apocalyptic drama ''Jericho,'' and ordered seven new episodes after a sustained and creative protest by fans of the series. The new episodes are for broadcast late this year or early in 2008. [C4.] PHONE BOOKS ON A DIET -- The fat phone book is losing some of its girth as more people give up their land lines for cellphones. In Manhattan, despite population gains in recent years, the 2007 Verizon White Pages was 142 pages smaller than the 2006 edition. [B1.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows AstraZeneca A.D.R.'s shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DIABETES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PATENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (75%); PATENT LAW (75%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (62%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



121 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Where's EuroArnold?

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan, a former Seattle correspondent for The Times and the author of ''The Worst Hard Time,'' is a guest columnist.

 BODY:
As long as President Bush does not give German Chancellor Angela Merkel another one of those surprise neck rubs, the Group of 8 meetings should settle into cautious choreography on how to bring down the planet's fever and reduce global inequities.
 But one other leader from the world's major industrial powers should have been invited to this week's summit at Heiligendamm -- the Governator, Arnold Schwarzenegger of California. 
While Mr. Bush angered his fellow world leaders this week with yet another foot-dragging proposal on climate change, the governor has been working his own brand of international diplomacy on the issue and leading by example. And he has shown that in politics, and not just bodybuilding, it's possible to be re-inflated -- this time without the steroids. 
 Some people still think of California as a land of sunbaked barbarians, killing kilowatts in their hot tubs and spewing greenhouse gases from gridlocked freeways. But California, where America goes for rehab and reinvention, is no still-life in decay. 
 Only a handful of states use less energy, per capita, than California. No state has committed to such a broad change in lifestyle and environment. And no state has tried so consistently -- even having to defy the federal government -- to get to where the world wants to be on slowing climate change. California is what the rest of the nation could have been had not Vice President Cheney disparaged conservation as a wimp issue for the virtuous, choosing to perforate more public land in a last-gasp stumble for fossil fuels. 
 Not all of this is Arnold's doing. An audacious plan to reduce auto emissions was enacted a year before he won the governor's race in 2003. But despite enormous pressure from automakers, the governor has fully backed the measure and threatened to sue the federal government for the exemption California needs to move ahead. He went a step further when he signed a law committing California to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent by 2020. And last week he was in Canada, making climate goal agreements with two provinces while blasting his own government for failing to show any leadership.
 Home to one in eight Americans, with an economy bigger than Canada, California has global swagger -- and the governor is starting to use it. The state is further along than any other country on this issue. 
 ''The power influence we have is the equivalent of a nation, or even a continent,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said last week in British Columbia. 
 Some industry executives have cried a Salton Sea of tears over having to comply with all the new initiatives. Hybrids, hydrogen cars, engines running on salad dressing -- how's General Motors supposed to fend off bankruptcy with innovation? 
 But other corporations view the opportunity to serve one of the world's largest auto markets as a potential motherlode. 
 Check into any college lab in California, from the gilded interiors of Stanford to the mobile-home campuses in Riverside County, and you find a frenzy of experiments on how to light, heat, cool and transport ourselves without wrecking the globe. You find the same thing up the entrepreneurial ladder, from garages in Salinas to kids in flops at Google headquarters. 
 The Governator himself is a fascinating hybrid. Two years ago, his approval rating was at Bushian levels, just above 30 percent. Then he had a California epiphany -- Eureka! He embraced universal health care, edgy capitalism and market-based environmentalism, while vowing to keep taxes low. Now he is the most popular major politician in California.
 But to some fellow Republicans, he is a traitor, a product of all that Kennedy compounding with his wife, Maria Shriver. Rush Limbaugh called him ''a sellout.'' But it took a former Mr. Universe to do what no significant Republican had yet to do: he said Mr. Limbaugh was ''irrelevant.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, the policeman's son from a small town in Austria, has morphed into his logical political fit: EuroArnold, at home in the pragmatic politics of Tony Blair or Mrs. Merkel. 
 It would have been intriguing to have him in Germany this week, showing the rest of the world that not all Americans are in the last century on the big issues of the day. And, of course, he's one of the few Americans who's used to wearing a Speedo without blushing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); LAKES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); WEIGHTLIFTING (54%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); ANGELA MERKEL (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



122 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: When Pardons Turn Political

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Sabrina Pacifici contributed research.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
President Bush has pardoned 113 people during his presidency, including a Tennessee bootlegger and a Mississippi odometer cheat.
 But none has drawn the public scrutiny, nor posed the same political challenge, as the candidate that many conservatives hope will be Bush presidential pardon No. 114: I. Lewis Libby Jr., the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, who was convicted of lying to investigators in the C.I.A. leak case and sentenced Tuesday to 30 months in prison.
A pardon for Mr. Libby would attract more painful attention to a case from which Mr. Bush had managed to keep his distance for more than three years, a case inextricably linked to the flawed intelligence used to justify the Iraq war and an administration effort to discredit a critic that ultimately exposed a C.I.A. officer. The Democrats who control Congress would be none too pleased, either. 
 A decision not to pardon Mr. Libby would further alienate members of Mr. Bush's traditional base of support in the conservative movement, a group already angry about his proposed immigration policy, his administration's spending and his approach to Iran.
 So far, Mr. Bush seems to be willing to take that chance, saying he will not intervene until Mr. Libby's legal team has exhausted its avenues of appeal.
 Already, major conservative and neoconservative organizations, magazines and Web sites are expressing vexation that Mr. Bush has not granted clemency to Mr. Libby, who they say was unfairly railroaded for an initial leak that has now been traced to Richard L. Armitage, the former deputy secretary of state.
 ''I don't understand it,'' said David Frum, a former speech writer for Mr. Bush who is now a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group with close ties to the White House. ''A lot of people in the conservative world are weighted down by the sheer, glaring unfairness here.''
 A conservative with close ties to the administration, who requested anonymity to speak frankly, put it another way: ''Letting Scooter go to jail would be a politically irrational symbol to the last chunk of the 29 percent upon which he stands,'' a reference to the low percentage of Americans who tell pollsters they support Mr. Bush.
 But Mr. Bush has never been very eager to grant pardons, and in fact is among the stingiest presidents in history, said P. S. Ruckman Jr., a political science professor who studies pardons at Rock Valley College in Rockford, Ill. Mr. Bush took office as his predecessor, Bill Clinton, was facing harsh scrutiny for granting a pardon to Marc Rich, whose former wife, Denise, had donated heavily to Mr. Clinton's presidential library.
 A former senior administration official with his own ties to the case said Mr. Libby had failed to meet the general standard for a pardon by not showing contrition or serving any time. This official also noted that Mr. Libby had also been found guilty of lying to investigators, the same offense that led to the impeachment of Mr. Clinton.
 The former official, who requested anonymity to speak frankly about the president, said: ''It would show a deep disregard for the rule of law if he was to do it right now, when there has been no remorse shown by a convicted felon and no time has been served. How's this going to fit in his long-term legacy?''
 Though they can be ignored by presidents, the guidelines for pardons and clemency recommended by the Department of Justice say that a convict should generally have to wait five years after conviction or release from confinement before being pardoned. Those who received pardons are also generally expected to accept responsibility for their criminal conduct, and should be seeking forgiveness rather than vindication. Presidents can also commute sentences without granting an underlying pardon, although that action is rare and is generally taken after a sentence has begun.
 Kenneth L. Adelman, the former director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and one of Mr. Libby's prominent supporters, said he did not believe a pardon of Mr. Libby would have any bearing on Mr. Bush's legacy. 
 ''Clinton is very popular in the world, and he pardoned Marc Rich, of all things,'' Mr. Adelman said. (Mr. Rich, for whom Mr. Libby had coincidentally worked as a lawyer, was a fugitive from charges of conspiracy, tax evasion, racketeering and violating United States sanctions by trading oil with Iran when Mr. Clinton pardoned him.)
 Mr. Adelman said he was chagrined by what he described as the president's inconsistent application of loyalty, which he said seems to be cutting against Mr. Libby after having played out in favor of former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, ''who were palpably doing a terrible job.'' 
 But Mr. Bush's support for Mr. Gonzales in the face of charges that the attorney general's office politicized the hiring and firing of federal prosecutors has not helped clear a path for a pardon for Mr. Libby.
 Other presidents withstood calls for pardons from their supporters and survived with their legacies intact. 
 President Ronald Reagan faced very similar -- albeit, pre-Internet -- pressure from conservatives to grant pardons to Oliver North, John M. Poindexter and others indicted for roles in the Iran-contra affair. He never did so, leaving the matter to his successor and vice president, George Bush. (Mr. Bush did not grant clemency to Colonel North or Admiral Poindexter, neither of whose convictions stood; he did pardon six others.)
 Mr. Bush, who is hoping for a Republican successor, could do the same -- and judging by the reactions against the sentence for Mr. Libby at the Republican presidential debate on CNN on Tuesday, Mr. Libby could ultimately get a pardon.
 But that would mean withstanding the pressure that will intensify if and when Mr. Libby goes to jail, which could happen in a matter of weeks, even as his appeals are pending. Speaking with reporters with him for the Group of Eight economic summit in Germany on Wednesday, Mr. Bush was not showing his hand. ''It wouldn't be appropriate for me to discuss the case until after the legal remedies have run its course,'' he said. He cut off a reporter's follow-up question on a possible pardon by moving on to another reporter, Terence Hunt of The Associated Press, who changed the subject to the new tensions with Russia. ''Nice going, Terry,'' Mr. Bush said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page News Analysis article yesterday about the possibility of a presidential pardon for I. Lewis Libby Jr., who was convicted of lying to investigators in the C.I.A. leak case, referred incorrectly to Terence Hunt, a reporter for The Associated Press, in describing a scene in which President Bush cut off one reporter's follow-up question about a pardon by moving on to another reporter who asked about Russia. Mr. Hunt was the reporter who tried to ask the follow-up question about the pardon; he was not the reporter who ''changed the subject'' to the new tensions about Russia. And it was an unidentified reporter -- not Mr. Bush -- who said, ''Nice going, Terry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARDONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); WRITERS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); LIBRARIES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); IMMIGRATION (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



123 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Auto Chiefs Make Headway Against a Mileage Increase

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
Automobile companies seem to be making progress in tamping down Democratic proposals for tougher fuel economy requirements, an issue that pits powerful Democrats from Michigan against some national leaders of their own party.
 The chief executives of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler had lunch with Senate Democrats on Wednesday, less than a week before the Democratic leaders hope to bring a sprawling energy bill to the Senate floor.
The executives argued that the bill's proposal to increase mileage requirements for cars and light trucks would be impossible to meet and would gravely damage the automobile industry. 
 It would increase the average mileage requirement for passenger cars to 35 miles a gallon by 2020, up from 27.5 miles a gallon now, and would apply to light trucks and sport utility vehicles as well.
 But leading House and Senate Democrats from Michigan are pushing a softer approach, and they have a good chance of getting some of what they want. 
 Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow, both of Michigan, are drafting a bill that would raise mileage requirements but would be more lenient for light trucks and would give car companies the possibility of an escape hatch by demonstrating that the rules would be too costly to meet.
 The Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, hinted at the lunch on Wednesday that he was willing to look for a compromise. 
 Noting that the industry and the United Automobile Workers union were at least willing to support some increase in mileage requirements, Mr. Reid said he was ready to listen.
 ''I haven't seen all the details yet,'' he told reporters, ''but I hope that we can work together to make substantial progress.''
 Environmental and consumer groups warned Wednesday that Democrats were in danger of diluting the requirements until they had little meaning.
 ''The question is no longer whether Congress will act on fuel economy, but whether what it passes will mean anything,'' said Kevin Curtis, vice president of the National Environmental Trust, an advocacy group in Washington.
 The House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, is on a collision course with Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee.
 Mr. Dingell and Representative Rick Boucher, Democrat of Virginia, have drafted a bill that calls for raising the fuel efficiency requirement for passenger cars to an average of 36 miles a gallon and for light trucks to 30 miles a gallon by 2022.
 But the bill includes escape hatches from the rules if car companies can demonstrate that the requirements would be too difficult to meet.
 And in a potentially bigger clash with Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Dingell and Mr. Boucher have also proposed revoking the Environmental Protection Agency's authority to let California and other states impose emission requirements that are tougher than the federal regulations.
 The California Legislature has passed stringent new requirements to reduce automobile emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, and state officials are demanding that the E.P.A. grant it a waiver from federal rules.
 On Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi warned that she opposed any provision that jeopardized California's rules, which many other states have expressed interest in copying. 
 ''Any proposal that affects California's landmark efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or eliminate the E.P.A.'s authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions will not have my support,'' the speaker said in a written statement.
 In a break with the past, automobile manufacturers have agreed that some increase in fuel economy requirements is appropriate. But they vigorously oppose the Senate bill, complaining that its requirements are too rigid and not economically feasible. 
 Rick Wagoner, chairman and chief executive of General Motors, said the requirements were ''a stretch'' and ''don't look achievable.'' 
 Car companies conducted a 10-state radio and newspaper advertising campaign while lawmakers were back in their districts during the long Memorial Day weekend, and they are expected to step up pressure in the days ahead.
 David Friedman, research director for the Union of Concerned Scientists, warned that Democrats were in danger of abandoning any firm requirement for greater fuel economy. 
 ''There is no binding language in the Boucher bill,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''Consumers don't need slippery language. They don't need promises. They need guaranteed fuel economy standards.''
 Requirements for gasoline efficiency in passenger cars have not been raised since 1983. The Bush administration has imposed small increases in mileage requirements for light trucks -- to 24 miles a gallon on average for trucks by 2011, up from 22.4 miles a gallon now. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Auto executives, from left, Thomas LaSorda of Chrysler, Alan Mulally of Ford and Rick Wagoner of General Motors. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C1)
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, opposes any gasoline mileage bill that undermines California's ability to impose the toughest standards. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (87%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK BOUCHER (78%); JOHN DINGELL (77%); NANCY PELOSI (69%); HARRY REID (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); RICK WAGONER (57%); ALAN MULALLY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



124 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: As Group of 8 Starts Meeting, Bush Rebuffs Germany on Cutting Greenhouse Emissions

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ROSTOCK, Germany, June 6 

 BODY:
As leaders of wealthy nations converged Wednesday on a Baltic Sea resort for their annual meeting, the White House effectively derailed a climate change initiative backed by one of President Bush's strongest European allies, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
 The White House said it would hold firm against concrete long-term targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, a major priority for Mrs. Merkel, the host of the Group of 8 meeting. 
The meeting got off to a tense beginning, as several thousand protesters blocked roads and rail lines to Heiligendamm, the luxury resort town about 10 miles from here where the meeting was being held. Demonstrators in clown makeup and pink and yellow wigs danced outside a steel fence surrounding the meeting site, clashing with the police, who used tear gas to disperse them.
 The Group of 8 meeting is always one part substance and one part political theater, and Wednesday was no exception. The rock star Bono and the concert organizer Bob Geldof turned up, along with a Senegalese musician, to lobby heads of state, including Mr. Bush, to spend more money combating global poverty and AIDS in Africa.
 The real work of the meeting will get under way on Thursday, when Mr. Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia are to have a much-anticipated meeting. The two have been at odds over missile defense, although Mr. Bush told reporters on Wednesday that he saw no need for military action if Mr. Putin decided to again aim Russian missiles at Europe, as he has suggested he might.
 The theme of the meeting is ''growth and responsibility in the global economy,'' but by Wednesday, it was apparent that the biggest rift will revolve around climate change.
 After lunch with Mr. Bush, Mrs. Merkel seemed to concede -- without explicitly saying so -- that her plan was off the table.
 ''There are a few areas here and there we will continue to work on,'' she said, standing side by side with the president outside an elegant white castle on the grounds of the Kempinski Grand Hotel. When Mr. Bush turned to her and said he has ''a strong desire to work with you'' on the issue, the chancellor pursed her lips.
 Specifically, Mrs. Merkel is pressing the Group of 8 to adopt a plan to cut emissions in half by 2050 and to limit the rise in global temperature to two degrees Celsius -- terms the president's chief environmental adviser, James L. Connaughton, said Wednesday the United States was not prepared to accept. 
 Instead, he said, the final communique approved by the Group of 8 nations -- the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and Japan -- would probably reflect a merging of Mrs. Merkel's plan with a proposal by Mr. Bush. In a major speech on climate change last week, the president said he intended to convene major polluting nations, including China and India, in a series of meetings aimed at setting long-term goals by the end of 2008.
 ''Here's a way to get China and India at the table,'' Mr. Bush said Wednesday, in a roundtable with reporters before his lunch with Mrs. Merkel. 
 He said the United States ''can serve as a bridge between some nations who believe that now is the time to come up with a set goal'' and ''those who are reluctant to participate in the dialogue.'' 
 The climate change issue, though, is a delicate one for Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Bush, who have forged a strong bond since she took office in November 2005. With Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain planning to leave office later this month, and the new French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, an unknown quantity to Mr. Bush, Mrs. Merkel may be the president's best friend in Europe, and he can ill afford to cause strain to the relationship.
 Mrs. Merkel, a former physicist who has made global warming her signature issue, has staked her reputation on making real and significant progress on the problem during this year's meeting. Experts agree that she has more at stake than Mr. Bush; if she appears to be caving in to the president's demands, she risks a backlash at home. But neither does she want a public dispute with Mr. Bush.
 ''She does not want to make this a public spat,'' said Julianne Smith, director of the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''But she was elected in part because she's a scientist, she has a very strong position on this, and Germans are huge fans of any effort to cope with climate change. So for her own public, she has to show that she's being a bit forceful with the United States and she's putting her foot down.''
 Mrs. Merkel's chief adviser on climate issues, Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, said he expected no agreement on long-term targets for reducing emissions. But he said he was even more worried that the leaders would not agree to another part of the German proposal: a pledge to increase energy efficiency 20 percent by 2020.
 ''It would be very disappointing if the energy efficiency issue is marginalized,'' Mr. Schellnhuber said in a telephone interview. ''It's a huge, low-hanging apple, which can be plucked now.''
 But Mr. Connaughton said the White House believes efficiency goals should be set by individual nations. He sought to play down the notion of a rift between the United States and Germany, saying that in fact there was more agreement than disagreement, and any assertion to the contrary would be a ''gross distortion.''
 One question is what role Russia will play; a spokesman for Mr. Putin, Dmitri Peskov, said Wednesday that Mr. Putin found ''positive and pragmatic aspects'' in both the Bush and Merkel plans. Another question is how hard Mrs. Merkel will push Mr. Bush behind closed doors, and what kind of concessions -- if any -- she will be able to extract in the language of the final communique, to be issued Friday.
 ''They may try to work out language in the final communique that might mention, for example, some targets and some numbers, but leaves it to individual states to decide whether or not to adhere to them,'' said Charles Kupchan, an expert on Europe at the Council on Foreign Relations.
 ''I would think she's going to push Bush hard for it, and she will have the backing of her European comrades, but I doubt it's going to be enough to turn Bush on the issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); RESORTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); POP & ROCK (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC (67%); APPROVALS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); JAMES CONNAUGHTON (57%); BONO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



125 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Promoting a Thirst for Sprite In Teenage Cellphone Users

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company is hoping its new mobile site for social networking, Sprite Yard, will become the MySpace of the cellphone world.
 But some marketing executives say the plan could instead become the BudTV of the soda world -- a failed effort to build a community around a brand.
 Sprite Yard, to be introduced in the United States this month, will look a lot like the social networking sites that have become popular on the Internet. Consumers will be able to set up personal profiles, share photos and chat online with friends, all using cellphones rather than computer screens. 
 People will type in codes from Sprite bottle caps to redeem original content, like ring tones and short video clips called mobisodes. Recently, one of the most redeemed prizes from Coca-Cola promotions has been virtual clothing and furniture to use in virtual online worlds, said Mark J. Greatrex, senior vice president for marketing communications and insights at Coca-Cola.
 Sprite Yard was introduced in China last week, and Coca-Cola plans to extend it globally and perhaps to other soda brands over the next few years. For the time being, Sprite Yard will function only on cellphones -- the medium that Sprite's marketing team said was the most popular with teenagers.
 ''Being with them on their mobile phones is absolutely essential,'' said Mr. Greatrex at a news conference yesterday. Sprite, he said, is ''trying to establish an omnipresent, on-the-go, everywhere relationship with teens.''
 As more consumers send text messages and surf the Internet from portable devices, media companies and advertisers are starting to create content specifically for mobile viewing. Most consumer brand companies have tested the waters with cellphone advertising that centers on text messaging; in those campaigns, advertisers typically encourage cellphone users to send a text message to a specific number to receive free content or enter a sweepstakes.
 Sprite Yard will take cellphone marketing a step further, establishing a permanent mobile site with a variety of features rather than a short campaign, advertising analysts said.
 ''It is a comprehensive commitment as opposed to the toe-dipping we've seen up to date from other marketers,'' said Christine Overby, an analyst at Forrester Research. ''This is a significant commitment from a mainstream brand to use mobile in their marketing mix.''
 Sprite marketers say their soda is particularly popular with teenagers, but it follows six other soft drinks in terms of sales across the general population, according to Beverage Digest. As more consumers drink water, teas and energy drinks instead of soda, Coca-Cola has been looking for innovative ways to generate loyalty, said John Sicher, editor and publisher of Beverage Digest.
 But Coke could see trouble if teenagers run up high data charges on their phones using Sprite Yard, said Jonathan Sackett, chief digital officer at Arnold Worldwide, an agency that is part of Havas. 
 Another challenge will be for Sprite Yard to become a media destination in its own right. Advertisers generally leave it to media companies to create content, because capturing an audience is not easy. BudTV, a Web site with original content that the Anheuser-Busch Companies introduced in February, is viewed as a cautionary example, with lagging Web traffic.
 Advertising executives said that Coca-Cola could have a hard time creating a popular site even in the new mobile world. Facebook, for example, will be a competitor with a mobile version of its site. 
 ''Nobody wants to go hang out with Sprite,'' said Chad Stoller, executive director of emerging platforms for Organic, a digital advertising agency in the Omnicom Group. ''It takes a lot for a brand to ask that of a customer. You really have to be getting something compelling in return.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (88%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); BRANDING (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); PUBLISHING (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (98%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (98%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (98%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



126 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 593 words

PERSON: Martin Meyerson 

HEADLINE: Martin Meyerson, 84, Leader at 3 Universities

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania and the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Saturday near his home in Philadelphia. In 1965, he helped calm tensions as acting chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, in the demonstrations of the Free Speech Movement. He was 84.
 The cause was prostate cancer, his son Adam said. 
A prominent scholar of urban design, Mr. Meyerson wrote four books on the subject and was an early proponent of first addressing political, economic and social concerns in communities where planners hoped to build major projects. 
 ''It seems obvious today, but in the 1950s it wasn't the common way of thinking,'' said Gary Hack, dean of the School of Design at the University of Pennsylvania. ''You can't just make a plan and implement it. Making the plan has to be inherently a process that organizes public and political support.''
 It was a concept that Mr. Meyerson followed as president of Penn from 1970 to 1981. He oversaw the conversion of what had been a collection of buildings on Philadelphia streets into a true campus. Streets were closed, landscaped walkways were built, and a large park was created in the middle of the campus.
 At the same time, Penn promoted economic development in its surrounding impoverished neighborhood.
 Mr. Meyerson's ideas were largely based on his analysis of the effects of public housing projects in Chicago in the early '50s. His book ''Politics, Planning and the Public Interest'' (The Free Press, 1955), written with Edward C. Banfield, predicted that constructing tall buildings packed with small apartments would have the unintended effect of racially isolating the urban poor. 
 Dr. Hack called the book ''the seminal work on the subject.'' 
 At Penn, Mr. Meyerson integrated women into the university. Until then, women had attended classes with men, but were enrolled in the separate College for Women. He also started the first affirmative action program at the institution.
 Mr. Meyerson was born on Nov. 14, 1922, in Brooklyn, the only child of Samuel and Etta Berger Meyerson. Surviving are his wife of 61 years, the former Margy Ellin Lazarus; two sons, Adam and Matthew, of Concord, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
 A 1942 graduate of Columbia University, Mr. Meyerson received his master's in planning from Harvard in 1949. In 1952, after teaching at the University of Chicago, he was hired as an associate professor at Penn. He taught at Harvard from 1957 to 1963 and was then named dean of the College of Environmental Design at Berkeley. 
 In 1966, he was appointed president of SUNY Buffalo and four years later returned to Penn as president.
 In January 1965, while dean of the design school at Berkeley, Mr. Meyerson was asked to be acting chancellor after Edward W. Strong was forced out of office in the Free Speech Movement demonstrations. 
 A month earlier, nearly 800 students had been arrested when they occupied the administration building to protest a campus ban on political activity and fund-raising and recruitment for civil rights demonstrations. 
 In his six months as acting chancellor, Mr. Meyerson changed policies like moving to allow political speeches and the distribution of political literature on campus.
 To soothe complaints that the 22,000-student university was too bureaucratic and impersonal, he personally signed each of the hundreds of diplomas handed out at the graduation ceremony that spring. 
 As president of Penn and SUNY Buffalo, ''he never did that again,'' Adam Meyerson said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Meyerson in 1977. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); WOMEN (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (56%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



127 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Moves to Close Tax Shelter Shortly After I.B.M. Uses It to Save $1.6 Billion

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
For the second time in 12 months, the government has moved to block a tax shelter that had been aimed at converting billions of dollars of corporate profits, on which taxes have yet to be paid, into profits that will never be taxed. 
 The move by the Internal Revenue Service came two days after International Business Machines said that it used the technique to avoid paying $1.6 billion in income taxes.
As part of a $12.5 billion stock repurchase, I.B.M. used a foreign subsidiary to buy back shares through foreign exchanges. The subsidiary then used the shares to pay its corporate parent in America for goods and services.
 ''It's just a way to bring the profits into the United States without paying taxes by using the stock as currency,'' said H. David Rosenbloom, an international tax lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale and director of the international tax program at New York University Law School.
 On May 31, the Internal Revenue Service issued a notice declaring that the technique could not be used to eliminate taxes. The notice said it would disallow any transactions beginning on that day.
 The technique ''raises significant policy concerns,'' the I.R.S. said. The I.R.S. shut down a simpler version of the same shelter in September.
 Under a 1962 law, corporations can defer paying taxes on most profits earned abroad as long as the money remains outside the country. The taxes come due, however, if the money is returned to the United States.
 The technique was believed to be in wide use by corporations that have substantial profits offshore and are also buying back large amounts of their own shares to return value to investors. I.B.M. appears to be the only company that publicly disclosed its use of the tax shelter. 
 The tax shelter is known as ''Killer B,'' after the letter used to designate a provision in the tax code governing certain corporate reorganizations.
 By avoiding the 35 percent federal tax on profit, a company can buy three shares for every two it would be able to acquire with profits that had been taxed.
 Over the last 45 years, a variety of techniques to get around the rule have been put forth by accounting firms, but the shelters are typically demolished by the I.R.S. once it learns about them.
 The notice effectively kills any further use of the device, Mr. Rosenbloom said, because independent auditors will not issue an unqualified opinion on the books of any company that tries to use the technique. 
 I.B.M.'s transaction, and any others, would be vulnerable in an audit because of a principle known as economic substance. Transactions that do nothing but eliminate taxes are disregarded if tax auditors discover them.
 An I.B.M. spokeswoman in Washington, Lia P. Davis, said last night that she was not authorized to speak about the issue.
 The I.B.M. transaction may differ in some crucial details from the way other companies used Killer B. I.B.M. does not have an especially large amount of deferred profit offshore. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); AUDITS (85%); ACCOUNTING (85%); TAX AUDITS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (60%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); CAPLIN & DRYSDALE CHARTERED (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



128 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Brooklyn: Universities Pledge Emissions Cuts

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The presidents of nine universities in New York City promised yesterday to cut greenhouse gas emissions from their campuses by 30 percent over the next 10 years. The pledges, made during a news conference at Pratt Institute, came in response to a challenge by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has set the same objectives for all city-owned buildings as part of his environmental sustainability plan for the city. According to a city study, buildings account for nearly 80 percent of the city's greenhouse gas emissions, which have been linked to global warming. The participating schools are Barnard, Columbia, Cooper Union, all 23 campuses of the City University of New York, Fordham, New York University, Pratt, St. John's University and the New School. Asked if the retrofits might require tuition increases, the president of one university said it was a possibility; others said they would seek other financing. RAY RIVERA 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); TUITION FEES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



129 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Prudential Financial to Close Research Unit

BYLINE: By ANGEL JENNINGS

 BODY:
Prudential Financial has been trying for years to figure out what to do with its small, struggling equity research and sales business. Yesterday, the company said it had decided to shut the operation. 
 About 420 people will be laid off, with most of the cuts coming in New York. Offices will also be closing in Zurich, Paris and Tokyo as well as several in the United States.
The unit, the Prudential Equity Group, sold research reports about stocks, the economy and politics and offered securities trading to domestic and international institutional customers. 
 The company, based in Newark, had been downsizing and restructuring the division for years, dabbling in investment banking and the retail brokerage sector, which could support the research and trading operations. But the division never found its niche, and the company exited investment banking and retail brokerage, leaving research and sales as a corporate orphan. 
 Last year, it had $260 million in revenue, a small chunk of the $32.49 billion the company had in overall sales. 
 ''We were not able to reach the scale we wanted to in the long term,'' said Theresa Miller, a Prudential spokeswoman. ''The company couldn't get as large as we wanted, and we didn't see significant growth in the future.'' 
 Prudential estimates that closing the division will cost $110 million, including $75 million in severance packages and other employee-related costs. The company said it would record the costs in this quarter.
 Shares of Prudential fell $1.11, or 1.1 percent, to $99.46.
 Prudential joined the securities business in 1981 when it purchased Bache Halsey Stuart Shields, which it renamed Prudential-Bache Securities and later just Prudential Securities. The company shut its investment banking operation in 2000, and the division adopted its current name after it sold a majority of its retail brokerage business to Wachovia Securities in 2003. 
 Speculation had emerged recently that Prudential was seeking a buyer for Prudential Equity. 
 The unit struggled to compete with larger companies like Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch as the equity research business became more competitive and less profitable. Large overhead expenses, costs it once shared with the profitable brokerage business, weighed down the relatively small division's profit, said Jeffrey Schuman, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
 ''Prudential Equity Group only brought in 1 percent of the company's revenue,'' he said. ''It was not a core part of their business, so it was pretty logical to get out.''
 Last year, Prudential agreed to pay $600 million in fines and reimbursement after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the brokerage division of inappropriate mutual fund trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EQUITY RESEARCH (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



130 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: AstraZeneca's Finance Chief Is Leaving

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, June 6 

 BODY:
AstraZeneca, Britain's second-largest drug maker after GlaxoSmithKline, said on Wednesday that its chief financial officer was leaving to join to Goldman Sachs just months after it paid $15.2 billion to buy MedImmune. 
 Jon Symonds, who joined Zeneca from KPMG in 1997 and was instrumental to the $30 billion merger with Astra of Sweden a year later, will step down at the end of July and join Goldman Sachs, one of AstraZeneca's corporate brokers, as a managing director in London in September.
Mr. Symonds was passed over more than a year ago in a race for chief executive at AstraZeneca, which appointed David Brennan, head of the American unit, to the post instead. His departure nevertheless surprised analysts, some of whom said that whoever succeeds Mr. Symonds would face the challenge of adding products through acquisitions to help the company's pipeline while avoiding spending too much.
 ''Investors weren't happy with what they paid for MedImmune, but they need to bring more products on board,'' said Tim Race, a pharmaceutical analyst at ING Markets in London.
 The departure of Mr. Symonds comes as AstraZeneca is trying to regain the confidence of investors after some setbacks with experimental medicines and a drop in its stock price. Shares fell because of a debt rating cut in April by Fitch Ratings, related to the debt used to pay for MedImmune.
 Goldman Sachs, which advised MedImmune on the sale to AstraZeneca, has counted AstraZeneca among its clients for years. 
 Mr. Symonds will join other prominent figures who have been hired by Goldman. Robert B. Zoellick, the former United States deputy secretary of state who has been nominated as the next president of the World Bank, joined in June 2006 as chairman of its international advisers group. Peter Sutherland, chairman of BP, and Mario Monti, the former European Union antitrust commissioner, are among Goldman's senior advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (92%); MEDIMMUNE INC (90%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AZN (STO) (92%); AZN (NYSE) (92%); AZN (LSE) (92%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: DAVID BRENNAN (59%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



131 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Saving Trees Is Music To Guitar Makers' Ears

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
Christian F. Martin IV is the sixth generation to run his family's renowned guitar-making business, C. F. Martin & Company. But he is surely the first to worry about the availability of the distinctive woods needed to build Martin guitars, the choice of musicians like Sting, Paul Simon, Jimmy Buffett and John Mayer. 
 As old growth forests have been razed and several species of tropical woods like mahogany, ebony and rosewood have become much scarcer, guitar makers like Martin, Taylor, Fender and Gibson have had to rethink the notion that there is an inexhaustible supply of the desired woods to make their instruments.
As small, privately held companies, these instrument makers have banded together to join the burgeoning corporate social responsibility movement, not just to appear politically correct but to ensure their long-term survival. 
 ''If I use up all the good wood, I'm out of business,'' Mr. Martin said. ''I have a 2-year-old daughter, Claire Frances Martin, and she can be the seventh generation C. F. Martin. I want her to be able to get materials she'll need, just as my ancestors and I have over the past 174 years.''
 Though they are fierce competitors for a small but vibrant marketplace, the companies have become aware of the significant changes in the availability and price of the best woods. In an unusual alliance, the four guitar makers have joined with Greenpeace in one of many efforts to bring attention to forest management and sustainability.
 Bob Taylor, president and co-founder of Taylor Guitars in El Cajon, Calif., says that he has observed one vital wood species after another become unavailable in the 35 years he has been in business. 
 ''I used to buy Brazilian rosewood back in the 1970s at the lumber yard for $2 a square foot,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''Now it's impossible for us to make a guitar out of it and ship it outside the U.S. If we do get a little bit of it, it's extremely expensive. The cutting of it has all but halted.'' 
 He added that ''Adirondack spruce is unavailable. Mahogany was so plentiful it was a commodity. Now only specialty cutters are getting it, and the prices have gone through the roof. All these things happened just in my lifetime.'' 
 Greenpeace headed the Musicwood Coalition, as it is called, in January 2006, to promote better logging practices, particularly in the rain forest region in southeast Alaska. Because of its unique geography -- a thin strip of land in the Alaska panhandle with the ocean on one side, huge mountains on the other -- this temperate forest is considered one of the rarest on the planet. 
 Its majestic trees -- Sitka spruce that are hundreds of years old -- have been clear cut by private timber companies, and Greenpeace has worked to encourage these landowners to try new approaches that would help preserve the ancient forests. 
 Specifically, Greenpeace wants the private logging companies to apply for certification by the Forest Stewardship Council, an environmental organization that would require the adoption of different logging practices. Scott Paul, the forest campaign coordinator for Greenpeace, said that if the current practices continued, the last old-growth Sitka spruce trees would be gone in just six or seven years. 
 ''This scared the hell out of them,'' Mr. Paul said of the guitar makers. For them, Sitka spruce is a precious commodity, a tonal wood used for the soundboards in acoustic guitars and pianos. To achieve the sound that guitarists cherish, the Sitka spruce, at least 250 years old, has long been a required material. 
 Mr. Paul said that the amount of Sitka spruce used by guitar manufacturers is a tiny fraction of the total shipped. As few as 150 logs are enough to supply the whole industry each year. Nearly 80 percent of the spruce cut in Alaska is shipped to Asia, primarily Japan, for home building.
 ''These 400-year-old trees are getting buried in the walls of homes in Japan,'' Mr. Paul said.
 But while researching the customer list of Sealaska, the largest private logging company in the area, he noticed the names of well-known instrument makers and decided to get them involved to create public awareness of the issue.
 Mr. Paul approached Henry E. Juszkiewicz, the chief executive of Gibson Guitar. Mr. Juszkiewicz was an early supporter of the Rain Forest Alliance on whose board he sits and helped start the SmartWood program, which monitors the poaching of endangered wood species. Over the last decade, illegal poaching of old-growth trees has become a serious problem, particularly in the Pacific Northwest.
 He rallied his competitors to join the Greenpeace effort. ''This is both a public relations effort and an effort to do the right thing for our kids,'' Mr. Juszkiewicz said. 
 Though the market for guitars is small -- Mr. Martin estimates that three million acoustic and electric guitars are sold in the United States each year -- it is growing again, especially among serious amateurs willing to pay $2,000 and up for a quality instrument. 
 The guitar makers are looking for alternative woods that are more plentiful and cheaper, but everyone agrees that buyers who spend a lot of money for an instrument are looking for a distinctive sound as well as the characteristic look and feel of traditional woods.
 ''In many cases, alternative species of woods will deliver a consumer a great instrument,'' Mr. Juszkiewicz said. ''From a marketing standpoint though, it's a different story.''
 His view is echoed by Brian Berk, editor in chief of the Music and Sound Retailer, an industry trade publication. ''It's going to be difficult for this effort to make a major impact on the industry because the sound is so important to the end user,'' Mr. Berk said. ''There are definitely replacement woods that are sustainable for making guitars. But will they sound great?''
 Rock stars like Sting and Dave Matthews, among others, are lending their names to the effort. Orianthi, a 22-year-old Australian protegee of Carlos Santana who recently signed with Geffen Records, bought a new $3,000 Martin made of red birch and cherry, both sustainable woods. ''Guitars made from alternative woods generally don't sound very good,'' she said, ''but when I started playing this one, it sounded amazing, as good as the traditional instruments. I'm using it to record my new album.''
 For the dealers, however, the buyers of high-end guitars continue to crave Brazilian rosewood and mahogany. ''People are looking for investment-grade guitars,'' said Joe Caruso, co-owner of the Music Emporium in Lexington, Mass. ''I've got guitars for $25,000, and that upper-tier market has really blossomed over the last 10 years.'' 
 Mr. Caruso noted that all guitar makers, including smaller specialty manufacturers like Collings Guitars in Austin, Tex., and independent luthiers around the country, are charging more for guitars made from the great tonal woods.
 ''The idea is simple: Let's treat this resource for what it is, a really valuable, really scarce material,'' Mr. Caruso said. ''If you want it, pay for it.''
 Mr. Martin, as with his counterparts, is seeking compromise solutions that favor better forest management rather than a complete cessation of logging in those forests. He is wary of telling the people of indigenous cultures how to run their businesses, but he doesn't want shortsighted economic goals to endanger the future of his own business.
 ''None of us,'' he said, ''want to cut the last tree.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christian F. Martin IV, above, maker of Martin guitars, with his daughter, Claire Frances Martin. Orianthi, left, a 22-year-old Australian, holding a new $3,000 Martin made of red birch and cherry, both sustainable woods. (Photos by Above and far left, Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jill Connelly for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (91%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); RAIN FORESTS (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%)

COMPANY: C F MARTIN & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



132 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Plans to Broaden Student-Lending Inquiry

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, whose scrutiny of student loans has exposed ties between universities and lenders, said Wednesday that he was broadening his inquiry to examine the criteria lenders use when making loans, and whether they violate civil rights statutes.
 Testifying at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on private student loans, which do not carry federal guarantees, Mr. Cuomo said he was examining whether lenders were discriminating against students based on the institutions they attended or other factors not directly related to their credit history. 
''What criteria are they using in the underwriting of these loans?'' Mr. Cuomo asked. ''Parental income? Student income? Student creditworthiness? How about the school you attend? How is that weighted?''
 While lenders have the right to consider a borrower's credit record, he said, ''there are also civil rights and legal ramifications to what criteria they use, and that's what we're looking at.'' 
 He suggested that students at historically black institutions were sometimes charged higher interest rates and fees than other students.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is committee chairman and is running for president, likened the practice to redlining, in which banks rule out mortgage loans based not on the credit record of potential homeowners but by whether urban neighborhoods are predominantly black.
 The market in private student loans has soared in recent years, tripling to $17.3 billion in the last five years. Such loans carry variable interest rates, unlike government-backed loans, which have fixed rates. 
 Mr. Cuomo, whose student-loan ''code of conduct'' bans secret gifts from lenders to universities became a model for legislation the House passed overwhelmingly last month, called private student loans the Wild West of consumer lending because they are largely unregulated and the level of disclosure pales next to that required of the mortgage industry.
 Regulations that the federal Education Department issued last week on student lending apply only to loans carrying federal guarantees. Mr. Cuomo urged Congress to clean up the private loan industry, but said new legislation was probably not needed. Rather, he said, the federal agencies charged with oversight, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Trade Commission, have not used the authority they already have.
 A number of lenders, including Sallie Mae, which holds more private loans than any other company, consider the institution a student is attending in determining the interest rate, fees and other terms of loans they extend to students, said Barry W. Goulding, a Sallie Mae senior vice president who testified.
 But Mr. Goulding justified the practice, saying Sallie Mae considered ''our experience with the borrowers attending that school'' to only ''a nominal extent,'' which could result in interest rates up to one percentage point higher. More important, he said, is the credit history of the borrower and the co-signer, usually the students' parents.
 He said Sallie Mae had looked at the rates it charges students at six historically black colleges and universities: three received the best rates; three received higher rates.
 In setting interest rates, Mr. Goulding said, Sallie Mae also considers the ''competitive landscape,'' how aggressively colleges and universities seek the best deal for their students. Those that put together their preferred-lender lists by soliciting companies for their best terms, he said, typically get up to one percentage point lower interest rates.
 That disclosure suggested that colleges and universities that relied on perks to choose which lenders to recommend had hurt their students.
 Mr. Cuomo testified that 90 percent of all students select their lenders from their college's preferred-lender lists. Asked how common the perks and revenue sharing agreements were, Mr. Cuomo said, ''On the private loan side, it's rampant.''
 Executives from two other major student lenders, First Marblehead Corporation and Bank of America, said they did not weigh an institution's default history in setting loan terms. Rather, they said, they only make loans to a list of about 6,500 institutions, determined by factors like accreditation. The executives said they were providing a valuable service, investing in human capital and giving students with no credit history or collateral a chance to attend college.
 Luke Swarthout, the higher education advocate at the United States Public Interest Research Group, a nonpartisan consumer group, disagreed, saying many lenders did not readily disclose the terms of loans.
 The Associated Press reported that two universities announced Wednesday that financial aid directors had left their posts. Capella University said it had fired its financial aid director, Tim Lehmann, for accepting consulting fees from a student lender, and Widener University of Pennsylvania said its financial aid dean, Walter Cathie, had retired.
 The two had been on administrative leave since Mr. Cuomo accused them in April of accepting improper payments from a lender that they recommended to students. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York testifying. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ETHICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); SLM CORP (51%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



133 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani and McCain Say They Will Skip August Straw Poll in Iowa

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA; Michael Luo contributed reporting from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from Des Moines.

DATELINE: NEW CASTLE, N.H., June 6 

 BODY:
Bucking a ritual for Republican presidential candidates, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Senator John McCain announced Wednesday that they would skip participation in what has been a significant early test of candidate strength, the straw poll in Ames, Iowa, this summer.
 Their decision was the clearest indication of how much the changing primary calendar is upending presidential politics this year, as candidates grapple with the prospect of huge primaries in crucial states like Florida on Jan. 29 and California, New York and Texas a week later. 
 Both campaigns said they would still compete in the Iowa caucuses, scheduled for January. But the Giuliani campaign cited the high cost of participating in the poll, which they estimated at $3 million, as the reason for pulling out. Hours later, the McCain campaign followed suit, raising the prospect that the event would lose its import in the road to the nomination.
 ''This type of campaign has never been waged before,'' said Michael DuHaime, the Giuliani campaign manager. Mr. DuHaime said the need to spend in states like Florida and California was forcing the campaign to make tough choices about where to allocate resources.
 Terry Nelson, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, said the senator, of Arizona, still intended to compete vigorously in the caucuses. 
 Mitt Romney, who lags far behind Mr. Giuliani in national polls but is doing well in polls in Iowa, will still participate in the straw poll, hoping to use a strong showing both there and in the caucus to propel his candidacy in the primaries that follow.
 The Ames straw poll started in 1979, initially conceived as a way to raise money for the caucuses. It has been criticized as a poor test of support because the candidates essentially buy the tickets for the attendees who do the voting. Campaigns are expected to buy thousands of $30 tickets for supporters, provide them transportation and then pamper them during the carnival-like event, which is scheduled to be held on Aug. 11 at Iowa State University.
 George W. Bush used a straw poll victory in 1999 as evidence of his campaign's legitimacy and strength. The poll has also proved important in helping thin out the field, with lesser-known candidates who perform poorly dropping out of the race.
 Mr. McCain's decision to bypass the poll took Iowa Republican Party officials by surprise, because he has been competing aggressively in the state. But party officials said they still intended to hold the event and that the developments did not lessen the importance of the Iowa caucuses, which are tentatively scheduled for Jan. 20, but could be held even earlier as other states move up their primaries.
 Mr. Giuliani's announcement irritated some Iowa Republicans, who for nearly three decades have jealously guarded their tradition of opening the nation's race for the White House. But it also underscored the reality that advisers to Mr. Giuliani believe that his best prospects for winning the nomination could rest in appealing to moderate voters in the crush of primaries in California, Florida and New York, which will require costly advertising campaigns.
 The 2008 political calendar has already been far from orderly, although the basic rituals of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina as early testing grounds have remained. But the decision by Mr. Giuliani, who currently leads in many polls, to downscale in Iowa could have wider repercussions.
 His advisers insisted Wednesday that they were in Iowa to win and took great care to explain the decision to bypass the straw poll. First, campaign officials disclosed the news to The Des Moines Register. Then, other Iowa reporters were invited to participate in a conference call with a senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani, former Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa, who ran unsuccessfully for governor last year. 
 ''The straw poll actually could in fact take away Iowa's significance, if we're not careful,'' Mr. Nussle told reporters. ''It's not a serious event in the grand scheme of picking a nominee. And at this time in our history, with the war on terror and economic challenges facing our country, we need to have a serious conversation about our nominee and not just have, you know, these kind of fund-raising straw polls.''
 While Ames has at times been a good barometer, it has also been notably wrong, like in 1995 when Phil Gramm of Texas invested large sums of money and tied for first there, only to see his campaign fizzle.
 Steffen W. Schmidt, a professor of political science at Iowa State University, said that the importance of the Iowa straw poll appeared to be fading. While the caucuses will remain important to candidates, Mr. Schmidt said, the compressed schedule does not allow the luxury of spending so much money in one place in August.
 ''It's kind of a phony event,'' he said. ''It diverts energy and resources from the bigger states. It's a metaphor for the entire way the race is going.''
 The Romney campaign, which has already spent hundreds of thousands of dollars advertising in the state and reaffirmed its decision to take part in the straw poll, was quick to criticize the decisions to pull out. 
 Christopher Rants, the Iowa House Republican leader who is an adviser to the Romney campaign, said, ''It sure looks to me that Giuliani is trying to avoid having to compete for conservative votes.''
 The Giuliani campaign, hoping to reassure Iowa voters, announced that it would open its official campaign headquarters in the state on Thursday. Mr. Giuliani, however, will not be there. He is campaigning in Michigan that day, before heading off for events in Washington, D.C.; Missouri; and California. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign is to open a headquarters in Iowa today, but he will be elsewhere. Mr. Giuliani in Rhode Island yesterday. (Photo by Stew Milne/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); TICKET SALES (73%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



134 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Central Bank Raises Interest Rates

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 6 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank on Wednesday raised borrowing costs to their highest level in nearly six years, pointing to a humming economy that, while welcome, raised the risk of higher inflation. It also hinted at additional increases, prompting a slide in European stock markets. 
 The bank lifted its benchmark interest rate for the 13 countries that use the euro by a quarter percentage point, to 4 percent. That was the eighth increase since December 2005, when the bank began increasing the cost of credit in advance of an economic recovery. Europe is now growing faster than the United States.
The bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, while declining to commit to a timetable, left little doubt that the bank saw the need for higher interest rates to ward off the threat of inflation.
 The central bank's strategy has focused on getting ahead of what it sees as inflationary threats from energy prices, increasing bottlenecks in European production -- which allow companies to raise prices more quickly -- and rising wages, which can feed into higher consumer prices. It has also sought to curb explosive bank lending brought on by low interest rates around the world.
 For now, the bank has kept inflation under firm control. On a monthly rate, it is now running at less than 2 percent, almost precisely within the bank's target.
 ''What we have been doing since December 2005 has served us very well,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''We have been fully vindicated.''
 The central bank has wagered that a strong global economy would continue to stoke economic growth in Europe by buying its exports and that business conditions in the United States would pick up as the year progressed, as the Federal Reserve has predicted.
 In the statement issued after its regular monthly meeting, the bank slightly modified the language that it used to describe interest rates, hinting at future increases. It said that rates were ''still'' accommodating European economic growth, a formulation that Mr. Trichet highlighted as an oblique way of indicating that the bank would not stop at 4 percent.
 That prospect weighed on European stock indexes, which closed down more than 1 percent.
 Economists and financial analysts were divided as to when the bank might take its next step. 
 Until Wednesday, many investors had been betting on a September rate increase, but that likelihood faded as Mr. Trichet declined to disclose anything resembling a timetable.
 ''We know rates are going higher, but the E.C.B. is showing quite a bit of flexibility about when they raise them again,'' said Ken Wattret, chief euro zone economist for BNP Paribas in London.
 Still, Mr. Trichet gave some limited signals that the end was near for the tightening cycle.
 In its statement last month, the bank described interest rates as ''moderate,'' but on Wednesday it abandoned that formulation. By the end of the year, the bank is likely to pause to assess the effects of what will have been two years of slow, steady tightening, bank analysts believe.
 ''The E.C.B. is signaling to us that there is going to be a point where they really don't know where they are going to go next,'' Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital, said. ''We're not there yet, but we're pretty close.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The European Central Bank, in Frankfurt, has helped check inflation by raising the benchmark lending rate eight times since December 2005. (Photo by Martin Oeser/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007



135 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: After Key Arrest by Serbia, European Union Is to Reopen Talks

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 7 

 BODY:
The European Union said Thursday that it would resume negotiations with Serbia next week on an agreement that is the first step toward possible membership in the bloc.
 The announcement was made a week after the arrest and transfer of a leading Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect to the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, and it was seen as a victory for Boris Tadic, Serbia's reformist president, who is supported by the United States and the European Union.
On Wednesday the tribunal's chief prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, said during a visit to Belgrade that she believed that the government was fully committed to cooperating, and she praised the arrest and transfer of the Bosnian Serb suspect, Gen. Zdravko Tolimir. She said Serbia would arrest General Tolimir's former boss, Ratko Mladic, the commander of the Bosnian Serb army during the 1992-95 war in Bosnia, ''within months.'' 
 The European Union has made full cooperation with the tribunal a condition for closer ties. The two senior Bosnian Serb wartime leaders are still at large and are the tribunal's most-wanted suspects: General Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, the wartime leader of the Bosnian Serb government.
 Just weeks ago, Serbia's hopes of resuming negotiations with the European Union seemed faint. The conservative prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, had been accused by the Union of blocking cooperation with the tribunal. And for a brief moment in May, Mr. Kostunica's party seemed on the verge of forming a coalition with the nationalist Serbian Radical Party, which is opposed to the arrest of war crimes suspects and favors closer ties to Russia rather than to the European Union.
 Instead, Mr. Kostunica's party formed a coalition with President Tadic's Democratic Party. Together with the arrest of General Tolimir, the shift in Serbia's political scene helped open the door for the renewal of talks, officials said.
 A statement on Thursday by the European Union's expansion commissioner, Olli Rehn, said talks would resume next Wednesday on a ''stabilization and association agreement,'' the first step in the process. Such an agreement would bring ''concrete trade and economic benefits'' for Serbia, he said.
 In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Del Ponte said Mr. Kostunica had told her that cooperation with the tribunal was one of his government's main priorities and that the key to tracking down General Mladic was General Tolimir's arrest. 
 But many commentators here appear skeptical about what seemed to be Mr. Kostunica's change of heart, and say cooperation with the tribunal is more a reflection of his determination to stay in power than a new commitment to the court. In return for cooperation with the court, President Tadic's party, which wants closer ties with the European Union, agreed that Mr. Kostunica could remain as prime minister.
 ''He is the master of the slow political game,'' Sasa Mirkovic, the general manager of B92, a television and radio network that is frequently critical of Mr. Kostunica, said of the prime minister. ''When you think he is lost, he finds a strange exit.''
 Media commentators also said Mr. Kostunica's priority was to ensure that Kosovo remained within Serbia and that cooperation with The Hague and the West could easily fall victim to his strategy to retain the province.
 The United States and the European Union support a United Nations plan under which the Union would supervise Kosovo's independence for a limited period. The issue is a central one being discussed this week at the Group of 8 meeting near Rostock, Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



136 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: In China and U.S., the Fear of Inflation Is Having Fallout Effects

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GAOYAO, China, June 1 

 BODY:
Few things are as essential to the Chinese as their pigs.
 From pork spare ribs and mu shu pork to char siu bao -- barbecued pork buns -- pork is a staple of the Chinese diet. So in this Year of the Pig, an acute shortage of pork has been national news, as butchers raise prices almost daily and politicians scramble to respond.
Steep increases for pork loins and bacon are the most tangible sign that after a decade in which prices have fluctuated but not moved significantly upward, inflation is creeping back into China. In response to this pressure at home, Chinese companies are starting to raise prices for exports, removing what has been a brake on inflation in the West.
 With the global economy expanding at a robust pace, and prices rising in fast-developing countries like India and Mexico, central bankers and investors are becoming concerned. Interest rates are inching up in the United States and Europe as lenders demand that borrowers pay more to offset the erosion of buying power over time. 
 Business executives say that with wages rising 10 percent or more a year in many Chinese cities, the country's days are numbered as the world's lowest-cost producer of many cheap labor-intensive products, like toys and shoes.
 ''People tend to underestimate the deflationary impact over the last 10 years'' from Chinese exports, said Michael R. P. Smith, the chief executive of HSBC's Asian operations. ''It has got to the limit: you've had wage inflation, you've got rising natural resource prices. There's just no more give.''
 The crisis over pork prices in China, like the jolt many Americans feel when gasoline prices jump, offers one example of how prices can suddenly soar. The Chinese government is struggling to cope -- including deliberating whether to sell a snuffling, smelly strategic reserve of hundreds of thousands of live pigs kept at special subsidized farms for precisely the shortage the country is now facing.
 Chinese officials offer several reasons for the high pig prices. The cost of animal feed has risen by one-quarter in the last year, partly because more corn is being made into ethanol and partly because more prosperous workers are eating more meat, which requires more animal feed.
 The cost of pig veterinary medicine has soared. Some pig farms, shut down because of low prices last year, were unprepared for strong demand this spring. And outbreaks of disease have killed many pigs, though no reliable estimates of how many are available.
 The most recent statistics from the agriculture ministry show that prices for live pigs rose 71.3 percent in April from March, while pork prices climbed 29.3 percent. The price of pork followed pig prices higher in May as well, to the dismay of shoppers.
 Some consumers showed irritation with pork prices on two recent afternoons at a busy street market in metropolitan Guangzhou, an area of perhaps 12 million in southeast China. A woman walked up to Zhang Hanbiao, a butcher standing behind an unrefrigerated counter of raw pork under the glare of two large light bulbs, and asked him the price of the dark red slab of pig liver.
 Told the answer -- 7.5 yuan a catty, or $1.13 a pound, up from 90 cents a pound -- she stalked off in silence without buying. 
 Her response angered Mr. Zhang, a butcher with a faint mustache who has followed a Chinese tradition of letting his nails grow long on the little finger of each hand.
 ''No business!'' he exclaimed. ''I've lost 1,000 yuan in three days because the meat goes bad before I can sell it.''
 Another woman came to the counter, sniffed some pork suspiciously, then kept walking. ''After it turns color, people won't buy it,'' Mr. Zhang said, adding that roadside snack vendors buy unsold meat at a discount each evening.
 Wu Lijuan, a Guangzhou resident who bought a small plastic bag of lean pork from Mr. Zhang, said that she was eating less pork and more fish as pork prices rose. But prices for chicken, beef, fish and eggs are also increasing sharply this spring, along with the higher cost of animal and fish feed, although rising not quite as fast as pork prices.
 In a move to head off any protests among sometimes volatile student populations, the education ministry has ordered colleges and universities to subsidize pork instead of raising prices on campus. The civil affairs ministry has instructed municipal governments to subsidize pork purchases by low-income families, while the railway ministry has given priority to pig shipments.
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao visited the pork counter at a supermarket in Xian in central China on May 26 and called for local governments to pay pig farmers to increase production. The commerce ministry has raised the possibility of distributing pork from China's strategic pork reserves.
 State-controlled television in Shandong Province in northeastern China carried a detailed report late last month on the reserves. The commerce ministry keeps a national reserve of frozen pork and live pigs, and local governments keep their own reserves as well, constantly selling older supplies and procuring fresh stock. Government agencies pay a pig subsidy to farmers to keep their animals in the program.
 ''The sties are very roomy, there is heat in the winter and fans in the summer,'' the television program said, describing conditions very different from those endured by many other pigs in China, including those here in Gaoyao, 50 miles west of Guangzhou.
 Yang Yuanji stood in sweltering heat next to his fetid, crudely built pigpens on a recent afternoon and contended that he needed high prices to pay for costly animal feed and medicine.
 ''Everyone says pork prices are high -- I don't think so,'' he said.
 One of his neighbors, Yang Ming, said he did not believe that farmers were withholding pigs from the market -- as the state media occasionally hint -- in hope that prices will keep rising. ''I don't wait, I sell a pig as soon as it reaches 180 catties,'' or 200 pounds, he said.
 Pork has been a cornerstone of the Chinese diet for centuries. Rows of 2,100-year-old terra cotta pigs were recently discovered near Xian, a city better known for terra cotta warriors. China's 1.3 billion people eat more than 92 billion pounds of pork a year -- a fifth of a pound a day for every man, woman and child.
 And just as higher gasoline prices can lead to a political reaction in the United States, the Chinese government is particularly worried about soaring pork prices because of their impact on household budgets and the way they can exacerbate income inequality. 
 Pork is a critical source of protein for Chinese of all incomes, but particularly for low-income workers like those who keep American and European families well supplied with $49 DVD players and other popular consumer products. 
 Broader measures of consumer prices showed just 3 percent inflation in April, but Goldman Sachs now predicts that higher meat prices will help push this above 4 percent ''very soon.''
 Heavy investments in new factories, roads, rail lines and ports have helped limit inflation until now in manufactured goods, as productivity improvements mostly offset rising wages and higher prices for food, oil and metals. Economists and business executives say that manufacturers face growing pressure to raise prices as well, particularly with the torrent of money pouring into China, which has helped push up the prices of Chinese stocks and real estate.
 But the price that many Chinese care about most these days is the price of pork. Not far from Mr. Zhang's butcher counter is a small shop selling unrefrigerated barbecue. Cherry Zhou, a shop worker, said it had raised prices 25 percent in the last few days.
 Blaming pork distributors, she added, ''It's more expensive by the week.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about higher pork prices in China amid fears of rising inflation referred incorrectly to the time period in which pig prices increased 71.3 percent. It was in April compared with the same month a year earlier; the prices did not increase that much from March to April.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A pig at Yang Yuanji's farm requires costly feed and medicine. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Yang Mingying, 7, left, watching the animals at the farm of his father, Yang Yuanji, in Gaoyao. Right, a butcher, Zhang Hanbiao, preparing a package of pork for sale to Wu Lijuan. Ms. Wu says she is eating less pork lately.
 Yang Yuanji at home with his family. Told of complaints about high pork prices, he replied, ''I don't think so,'' and detailed his expenses. A neighbor expressed doubt that farmers were withholding pigs from the market. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); PORK (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); INFLATION (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ANIMAL FOODS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); GRAIN RESERVES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DEFLATION (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); BIOFUELS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ETHANOL (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



137 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 16480 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: June 8 - June 14

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition. Theater Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 
 Previews and Openings 'BEYOND GLORY' In previews; opens on June 21. War stories from Stephen Lang form the basis of this solo play, based on the tales of eight veterans from World War II, Korea and Vietnam (1:20). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. 'THE BUTCHER OF BARABOO' In previews; opens on Monday. Did the butcher of Baraboo, Wis., kill her husband? Find out in this black comedy (2:00). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 246-4422. 'ELVIS PEOPLE' In previews; opens on June 21. Explore the obsessive world of Elvis fans in this new drama about the influence of the King (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. 'EURYDICE' In previews; opens on June 18. The hot young playwright Sarah Ruhl (''The Clean House'') gives her spin on the classic myth of Orpheus and Eurydice (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. 'FALSETTOLAND' In previews; opens on June 17. The National Asian-American Theater company brings back its revival of William Finn's musical about a gay man trying to deal with his wife, his lover and the approaching bar mitzvah of his son (1:40). Dimson Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 279-4200. 'GONE MISSING' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on June 24. The Civilians revive this play with music; based on interviews, it revolves around the theme of loss (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. 'INTIMATE EXCHANGES' In previews; opens on Thursday. Alan Ayckbourn's eight different (but related) plays all begin with the same very modern question: should I smoke? Part of the Brits Off Broadway festival (1:30 to 2:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. 'OLD ACQUAINTANCE' In previews; opens on June 28. The Roundabout presents a new revival of John Van Druten's drawing room comedy about two childhood friends who grow up to be very different adults (2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. 'RADIO' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on June 17. A coming of age is paralleled with the growth of the Apollo Space program in this new drama in the Brits Off Broadway festival (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. 'ROMEO AND JULIET' In previews; opens on June 24. Oscar Isaac and Lauren Ambrose play the star-crossed lovers in this new Shakespeare in the Park production. Michael Greif (''Rent'') directs. Delacorte Theater in Central Park, midpark at 80th Street, (212) 539-8750. 'SESSIONS' In previews; opens on Sunday. Albert Tapper's comic new musical takes place in a therapist's office. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. '10 MILLION MILES' In previews; opens on Thursday. A new musical by the singer Patty Griffin and the playwright Keith Bunin (''The Busy World Is Hushed'') is about a road trip from Florida to New York (1:40). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200. 'THE WORST OF BOGOSIAN' Performances start on Tuesday. Eric Bogosian performs selections from past monologues, including ''Drinking in America'' and ''Sex, Drugs and Rock & Roll,'' in this Labyrinth Theater Company benefit (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. 'XANADU' In previews; opens on June 26. The 1980 cult roller-disco film about a Greek muse sent to earth goes Broadway -- and it's about time. Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Broadway 'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley) * 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'CURTAINS' This musical comedy about a musical-comedy murder -- featuring songs by John Kander and Fred Ebb and a book by Rupert Holmes -- lies on the stage like a promisingly gaudy string of firecrackers, waiting in vain for a match. The good news is that David Hyde Pierce, playing a diffident Boston detective, steps into full-fledged Broadway stardom. Scott Ellis directs a talent-packed cast that includes Debra Monk and Karen Ziemba. (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'DEUCE' Back on Broadway for the first time in 25 years, Angela Lansbury is so vitally and indelibly present that she even gives flesh to this flimsy comedy. Terrence McNally's play, about the reunion of two former doubles partners (Ms. Lansbury and Marian Seldes), is a jerry-built shrine to enduring star power. Directed by Michael Blakemore (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'FROST/NIXON' Frank Langella turns in a truly titanic performance as Richard M. Nixon in Peter Morgan's briskly entertaining, if all-too-tidy, play about the former president's annihilating television interviews with the British talk show host David Frost (the excellent Michael Sheen). Michael Grandage directs with the momentum of a ticking-bomb thriller and the zing of a boulevard comedy (1:40). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'INHERIT THE WIND' Doug Hughes's wooden revival of this worthy war horse, based on the Scopes ''monkey'' trial of 1925, never musters much more velocity than a drugstore fan. Be grateful that the cast includes Christopher Plummer, in savory form as a Will Rogers of jurisprudence. An oddly subdued Brian Dennehy plays his pompous adversary (2:00). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'LEGALLY BLONDE' This nonstop sugar rush of a musical about a powder puff who finds her inner power-broker, based on the 2001 film, approximates the experience of eating a jumbo bag of Gummi Bears in one sitting. Flossing between songs is recommended (2:20). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'LOVEMUSIK' As Lotte Lenya and Kurt Weill, Donna Murphy and Michael Cerveris turn in stunningly shaded performances in what is, alas, a sluggish, mixed-up bio-musical. Scored with an eclectic sampler of Weill's songs, ''LoveMusik'' strives to achieve chilly distance and cozy intimacy in the same breath. Harold Prince directs; Alfred Uhry wrote the conventionally sentimental book (2:40). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) '110 IN THE SHADE' Is it possible for a performance to be too good? Audra McDonald brings such breadth of skill and depth of feeling to Lonny Price's lukewarm revival of this musical about a love-starved spinster that she threatens to burst the seams of this small, homey musical. She's an overwhelming presence in an underwhelming show (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley) 'THE PIRATE QUEEN' How to river-dance your way to the bottom of the ocean, courtesy of the songwriters of ''Les Miserables'' (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'RADIO GOLF' The final -- and in dramatic terms, the weakest -- of August Wilson's magnificent 10-play cycle about the African-American experience, ''Radio Golf'' has the crackle of a bustling comedy. But this tale of getting and spending in the 1990s, directed by Kenny Leon, throbs with a lament for a lost time, a lost culture, a lost language (2:30). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) * 'TALK RADIO' The most lacerating portrait of a human meltdown this side of a Francis Bacon painting. Playing an abrasive radio talk show host with a God complex, the astounding Liev Schreiber seems to fill the air as inescapably as weather in Robert Falls's gut-grabbing revival of Eric Bogosian's 1987 play (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING' Joan Didion's arresting but ultimately frustrating adaptation of her best-selling memoir about being blindsided by grief, starring Vanessa Redgrave. The tension between style and emotional content that made the book such a stunner does not translate to the stage. The substance here is in the silences, when the focus shifts from words to Ms. Redgrave's wry, wounded face (1:40). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway 'BE' A high-energy, low-content Israeli show that blends music, dance and sex appeal in the latest attempt to tap into the ''Stomp'' market (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100. (Jason Zinoman) 'CRAZY MARY' Sigourney Weaver and Kristine Nielsen serve their specialties (WASP tartness, madcap madness) with such gusto in A. R. Gurney's comedy that it feels ungallant to point out that their characters are as artificial as hard-plastic dolls. A contrived play that never quite connects its thoughtful mind with its sentimental heart (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley) 'ELECTRA' An ''adaptation'' of Sophocles' play that is more of a spoof of a Greek tragedy than any serious attempt to revive one (1:10). The HAS Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, at 141st Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 868-4444.(Wilborn Hampton) 'ENSEMBLE STUDIO THEATER MARATHON 2007: SERIES A' Neil LaBute's contemporary gloss on a classic tale of Greek vengeance is the highlight of the first round in this annual series of short plays. Dana Delany and Victor Slezak are woman scorned and cad of a hubby in a gruesome drama that packs a visceral punch. Unfortunately, Mr. LaBute's play comes last in a mostly unrewarding program (2:00). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood) 'FATE'S IMAGINATION' Sex and politics, a natural combination in real life, don't mesh very well in Randall David Cook's play, but his ear for humor makes this comic drama about a politician's son who has a fling with an older woman pretty entertaining anyway (1:30). Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101. (Neil Genzlinger) 'GASLIGHT' The Irish Repertory Theater's revival of Patrick Hamilton's 1938 thriller about a husband intent on driving his wife mad strips away the claustrophobia and ably resists cliched feminist interpretation. As the impish detective who saves the day, Brian Murray is the play's great leavening agent. He prompts the heroine to whiskey drinking, and you want to raise a glass to him (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Ginia Bellafante) 'HORIZON' God is in the curriculum in Rinde Eckert's lively portrait of a theologian, an homage to the ''Christian realism'' of Reinhold Niebuhr. But even the fiercest secularist should find pleasure in this engaging performance piece, set in the seminary-without-walls of one man's mind (1:25). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 460-8996. (Brantley) 'MOTHER LOAD' In her one-woman show on the perils of affluent motherhood, Amy Wilson derides the culture of obsessive child-rearing as she chronicles her submission to it. An affable presence onstage, Ms. Wilson nevertheless mines overly cliched territory: the nut allergies, the horrors of preschool admission, the importance of knowing two languages by the time you are 3. Posters on Urbanbaby.com will find themselves amusedly looking in the mirror. All other New Yorkers will find themselves wanting to move to Patagonia (1:15). Sage Theater, 711 Seventh Avenue, at 47th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Bellafante) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30).Westside Theater Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anita Gates) * 'PASSING STRANGE' The composer and performer Stew narrates this semiautobiographical show about a songwriter on a journey of self-discovery. Part rock concert, part book musical, it flows smoothly on a strong current of feeling and humor as the Los Angeles-born central character searches for his musical voice in the hash bars of Amsterdam and the cabarets of Berlin (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555. (Isherwood) 'TEA' Age-blind casting is a great strength of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater's production of this play about four Japanese war brides who gather in 1968 to clean up the house of a fifth, who has killed herself. Velina Hasu Houston's play requires the five actresses to portray their characters at every stage of their lives, and it works well that some of them actually are young, while others, like Ako, who plays the uptight, more-Japanese-than-thou Atsuko, are well into middle age. But the play itself crams verbiage and melodrama into what feels like a television epic, complete with that most stereotypical of figures, the dead woman's ghost seeking liberation into the next world. The whole thing goes down like a long soap opera, though the actresses do their best to bring it all to life (1:30). West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, (212) 352-3101. (Anne Midgette) Off Off Broadway 'THE BRIG' Serious students of the stage will want to check out the Living Theater's first revival since 1963 of Kenneth H. Brown's docudrama about the soul-shredding grind of daily life in a Marine Corps prison, once again directed by the company co-founder Judith Malina. One of the most celebrated productions in the company's history, ''The Brig'' harks back to an era when theater was at the forefront of both political and artistic radicalism (2:00). Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood) 'ROMEO AND JULIET' Shakespeare imagined many things, yet perhaps even he wouldn't have envisioned this classic tragedy as a musical. The director Ellen Stewart has added many new elements, but the sum remains woefully less than its parts (2:15). LaMaMa E.T.C. Annex, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710. (Claudia La Rocco) 'TIME FLIES AND OTHERS BY IVES' An amusing collection of comic playlets by David Ives embraces the little guy (1:35). Laurie Beechman Theater, 407 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman) Long-Running Shows 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' A pasteboard pastiche of 1920's musicals, as remembered by a witty show queen(1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) 'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'TARZAN' A writhing green blob with music (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance 'ALL HER FACES: A PORTRAIT OF DUSTY SPRINGFIELD' There's no accounting for fans, as proved by Anthony Inneo's loving but slight tribute to Springfield. If you know the lyrics well enough to sing along, you could do worse than spend an hour listening to some of that English diva's hits, barely packaged in the shape of a play (1:15). La MaMa E.T.C. (the Club), 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; closes on Sunday. (La Rocco) 'BILL W. AND DR. BOB' This insightful new play about the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous subtly makes the claim that the recovery movement was born as a series of accidents. Patrick Husted is excellent as Bob Smith, Bill Wilson's partner in combating addictions (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Bellafante) * 'BLACKBIRD' David Harrower's stunning new drama looks back at a sexual relationship -- between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl -- that transforms, cripples and paralyzes. Jeff Daniels and Alison Pill, both extraordinary, peel their characters down to their barest souls. Joe Mantello is the masterly director (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'CIRKUS INFERNO' Happy lunacy (1:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Lawrence Van Gelder) 'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912; closes on Sunday. (Gates) * 'JOURNEY'S END' A splendid revival of R. C. Sherriff's 1928 drama of life in the trenches during World War I. Acutely staged (by David Grindley) and acted by a fine ensemble led by Hugh Dancy and Boyd Gaines, this production offers an exemplary presentation of that theatrical rarity, an uncompromising, clear-eyed play about war and the experience of day-to-day combat. An essential ticket (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'MAUD, THE MADNESS' The familiarity of many quotations from the works of Alfred, Lord Tennyson has done nothing to allay my philistine sense of that poet as dated and uneven in quality. This dramatized version of his epic poem ''Maud,'' which he termed a monodrama, does little to dispel such prejudice. Although the actor Jonathan Tindle and the director Niegel Smith have made a prodigious effort to lift Lord Alfred's words off the page, the mad Gothic protagonist they create is unappealing, and his flowery words remain a monument to an aesthetic of another time (1:30). June Havoc Theater, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 352-3101. ( Midgette) 'A MOON FOR THE MISBEGOTTEN' Kevin Spacey gives a bizarre, beat-the-clock performance, as lively as a frog on a hot plate, as James Tyrone in this off-kilter revival of Eugene O'Neill's last play. Mercifully, he does not block the view of Eve Best, who maps the contradictory levels of Tyrone's strapping love interest with clarity and intelligence (2:50). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) 'PHALLACY' Art and science collide in this play by Carl Djerassi, but it's not much of a mash-up; a chemist proves that a curator's prize sculpture has been misdated, and there's not much refuting the evidence (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 'rosebud: the lives of orson welles' Cineastes will feel cheated by the Welsh playwright Mark Jenkins's effort to cover all the well-known triumphs and tragedies of this legendary filmmaker's life in under 90 minutes. He walks briskly and rests nowhere long enough. This is a one-man show, and Christian McKay, however, is Welles to the soles of his feet (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200; closes on Sunday. (Bellafante) * 'SPALDING GRAY: STORIES LEFT TO TELL' A disarming collage of selections from the monologues and journals of Mr. Gray, the ultimate stand-up solipsist, who died in 2004. Directed by Lucy Sexton, and read by five performers, none of whom resemble Mr. Gray, with an affection that shrewdly stops short of hero worship (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100; closes on Sunday. (Brantley) Movies Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies. 'AMU' (No rating, 102 minutes, in English, Bengali, Hindi and Punjabi) This ambitious first feature by Shonali Bose, about Kaju, a young Indian-American woman searching for the real India and for her roots, begins as a gentle comedy of cultures clashing. Its true topic, though, is the riots that broke out in Delhi in 1984 after Indira Gandhi's assassination. Thousands of Sikhs were killed, and as Kaju learns, justice has been delayed and denied. (Rachel Saltz) 'ANGEL-A' (R, 90 minutes) Beneath its sophisticated Gallic gloss, this handsomely photographed feel-good fantasy, which shamelessly recycles ''It's a Wonderful Life'' and ''Heaven Can Wait,'' suggests an episode of ''Touched by an Angel'' without the tears. (Stephen Holden) * 'AWAY FROM HER' (PG-13, 110 minutes) Sarah Polley's well-observed adaptation of a story by Alice Munro is a quiet tour de force about love and loss, anchored by fine performances by Gordon Pinsent and Julie Christie as a couple dealing with the loss of memory and memories of past hurt. (A. O. Scott) 'THE BOSS OF IT ALL' (No rating, 99 minutes, in Danish) To describe ''The Boss of It All,'' Lars von Trier's acidic corporate comedy, as '' 'The Office' viewed through the looking glass'' only scratches the surface of the newest film from one of the foremost tricksters of world cinema. (Holden) * 'BRAND UPON THE BRAIN' (No rating, 96 minutes) A baroque entertainment with one foot in silent cinema and the other gingerly toeing the sound waves, Guy Maddin's latest centers on a man who, in visiting a now-emptied foundling home, journeys deep into his childhood. It's wild! It's weird! It's strangely touching and a total must-see! (Manohla Dargis) 'BROOKLYN RULES' (R, 99 minutes) However authentic and heartfelt this film's depiction of life on the meaner streets of the Northeast corridor may be, its story of three friends growing up in a mob-infested Brooklyn neighborhood doesn't begin to match ''The Sopranos'' in its epic vision of violence, class struggle and upward mobility in a barbarous culture. (Holden) 'BUG' (R, 102 minutes) In this overwrought psychodrama from the director William Friedkin, Ashley Judd's acting continues to surpass her career choices. Playing a shaky Oklahoma barmaid, she convincingly juggles an abusive husband (Harry Connick Jr.) and a newfound lover (Michael Shannon) who sees creepy-crawlies in the mattress and conspiracies everywhere. Though the movie's escalating hysteria may strain credulity, Ms. Judd has never been more believable as a woman condemned to attract the wrong kind of man. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 'CRAZY LOVE' (PG-13, 92 minutes) Love is blind, and so too is Linda Pugach, one of the loony-tuners in Dan Klores's somewhat sickening, mildly gonzo documentary. In 1959 Mrs. Pugach, then 22 and known as Linda Riss, was blinded by her husband-to-be Burton Pugach, a Bronx ambulance chaser who single-mindedly pursued the object of his obsession all the way to the marriage altar. (Dargis) 'DAY WATCH' (R, 140 minutes, in Russian) Picking up a number of years after ''Night Watch'' concludes, this second installment in Timur Bekmambetov's bustling supernatural trilogy dazzles and confuses with equal determination. Less coherent than its predecessor, if equally creative, the movie depicts hidden dimensions teeming with beings who swap bodies at will and rewrite destiny with something called the Chalk of Fate. Perhaps the Fickle Finger was otherwise engaged. (Catsoulis) 'FAY GRIM' (R, 118 minutes) Too light-headed to qualify as satire, too poker-faced to register as comedy, this elaborate spy spoof, a sequel to ''Henry Fool,'' belongs in its own stylistic niche: the Hal Hartley film. Movies emanating from Planet Hartley are an acquired taste shared by hipper-than-thou insiders. (Holden) 'THE FIFTH EMPIRE' (No rating, 127 minutes, in Portuguese) With this stubbornly static, talky drama about a young Portuguese king hoping to unite his troubled nation by embarking on a foreign adventure, the prolific 98-year-old director Manoel de Oliveira pushes his already minimalist style about as far as it can go. At the same time, though, Mr. Olivieira's aesthetic is in sync with his main interest: capturing characters' words and gestures in real time as they work through philosophical and political conundrums while remaining largely oblivious to the physical world around them. (Matt Zoller Seitz) 'GEORGIA RULE' (R, 111 minutes) Jane Fonda, Felicity Huffman and Lindsay Lohan play three generations of strong-willed, dysfunctional women in this comedy-melodrama from Garry Marshall. It's a mess, but it does have some vitality, thanks mainly to Ms. Fonda and Ms. Lohan. (Scott) * 'GRACIE' (PG-13, 95 minutes) Set in New Jersey in 1978, Davis Guggenheim's sensitive underdog tale depicts the obstacles faced by a young girl who dreams of playing on her high school's all-boy soccer team. While connecting the familiar adversity-drama dots -- the beat-down, the pickup, the last-minute support from an unexpected quarter -- the movie's follow-your-heart simplicity masks an unusual degree of emotional complexity. (Catsoulis) * 'HOLLYWOOD DREAMS' (R, 100 minutes) Filled with movie memories and gender confusion, Henry Jaglom's 15th and most accessible film finds him in a gentler, more wistful mood. Using a rabidly fame-smitten starlet (Tanna Frederick) as his fulcrum, Mr. Jaglom muses over the burdens of fame and the price of success. Knowing but never jaded, the movie is driven by Ms. Frederick's no-boundaries commitment to her broken character, a performance that's as startling as it is touching. (Catsoulis) * 'KILLER OF SHEEP' (No rating, 83 minutes) Largely hidden from view for three decades, Charles Burnett's lyrical film about a working-class family living in a broken-down home in a bombed-out stretch of Los Angeles is an American masterpiece. (Dargis) * 'KNOCKED UP' (R, 129 minutes) Foul of mouth and true of heart, this new comedy from Judd Apatow (''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'') captures the sexual and moral confusion of the present moment remarkably well. Seth Rogen and Katherine Heigl are unlikely bedfellows but perfect comic foils as a shlub-babe couple whose one-night stand leans to an unintended but not unwelcome pregnancy. (Scott) 'MR. BROOKS' (R, 120 minutes) Kevin Costner and William Hurt camp it up as a serial killer and his demonic alter ego in ''Mr. Brooks,'' a werewolf movie masquerading as a sophisticated thriller. (Holden) * 'ONCE' (R, 88 minutes) A modest, scruffy movie about two musicians who meet on a Dublin street and sort of fall in love. Charming, touching and true. (Scott) * 'PAPRIKA' (R, 90 minutes, in Japanese) In this gorgeous riot of future-shock ideas and brightly animated imagery, the doors of perception never close. Satoshi Kon's mind-twisting, eye-tickling anime isn't greasy kid's stuff: it's for thinking, interested adults whose sense of wonder remains as alive as their imaginations. (Dargis) 'PARIS JE T'AIME' (R, 120 minutes, in French and English) ''Paris Je T'Aime,'' a mosaic of 18 miniatures, each set in a different location in the City of Light, is a cinematic tasting menu consisting entirely of amuse-bouches. After two hours of such tidbits, the palate is sated. But if there is no need for a main course, you still leave feeling vaguely disappointed at not being served one. (Holden) 'PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: AT WORLD'S END' (PG-13, 167 minutes) This third and perhaps final episode in Gore Verbinski's swishy, swashbuckling saga wisely returns to the high-seas high jinks that made the first film so enjoyable. In service to a typically convoluted plot -- involving British perfidy, pieces of eight and a Godzilla-size sorceress -- all the usual suspects return to lie, swindle and marvel at Keith Richards's longevity, if not his line delivery. Jack Sparrow hallucinates, Barbossa agitates, and Elizabeth Swann is elected Pirate King. Really. Mr. Verbinski knows who wears the trousers in his trilogy. (Catsoulis) 'SHREK THE THIRD' (PG, 93 minutes) The ogre faces impending fatherhood and a career crisis. (Scott) 'SHOWBUSINESS' (PG, 102 minutes) This documentary by Dori Bernstein follows four Broadway musicals from rehearsal through the 2004 Tony Awards: ''Caroline, or Change''; ''Taboo''; ''Avenue Q''; and ''Wicked.'' On top of the usual challenges (fund-raising, rewrites, tryouts, marketing), they all had to endure scrutiny by theater critics and gossip columnists. Lively, sometimes cutting but mostly humane, ''ShowBusiness'' is packed with telling details. (Seitz) 'SPIDER-MAN 3' (PG-13, 139 minutes) Please, God, make this be the last one. (Dargis) 'TA RA RUM PUM' (No rating, 156 minutes, in English and Hindi) This movie about a race car driver (the versatile Saif Ali Khan) takes place in New York, but that doesn't stop it from being a classic example of Bollywood family values. Here, all the city's a stage set, perfect for ''Fame''-meets-''West Side Story'' production numbers. (Saltz) * 'TEN CANOES' (No rating, 90 minutes, in various Yolngu Aboriginal dialects) There is nothing more enthralling than a good yarn, and the mesmerizing ''Ten Canoes'' interweaves two versions of the same Australian Aboriginal fable, one filmed in black and white and set a thousand years ago and an even older one, filmed in color and set in prehistoric times. (Holden) * 28 WEEKS LATER' (R, 91 minutes) The virus that killed off most of England -- after turning its population into rabid, flesh-hungry zombies -- seems to be under control at the start of this terrifying sequel to ''28 Days Later.'' But if anything, the horror is deeper, and the social criticism more acute. (Scott) 'VACANCY' (R, 80 minutes) This banal horror retread involves a couple of critters (Luke Wilson, Kate Beckinsale) flailing inside a sticky trap for what is, in effect, the big-screen equivalent of a roach motel. (Dargis) * 'THE VALET' (PG-13, 85 minutes, in French) If you love to hate the superrich, this delectable comedy, in which the great French actor Daniel Auteuil portrays a piggy billionaire industrialist facing his comeuppance, is a sinfully delicious bonbon, a classic French farce with modern touches. (Holden) * 'WAITRESS' (PG-13, 104 minutes) Keri Russell is a small-town waitress in a bad marriage who finds solace in pie-baking and adultery in Adrienne Shelly's wry and winning final feature. (Scott) * 'YEAR OF THE DOG' (PG-13, 97 minutes) Mike White's touching comedy about a woman who loses a dog and finds herself is funny ha-ha but firmly in touch with its downer side, which means that it's also funny in a kind of existential way. Molly Shannon stars alongside a menagerie of howling scene-stealers. (Dargis) 'ZOO' (No rating, 76 minutes) Robinson Devor's heavily reconstructed documentary is, to a large extent, about the rhetorical uses of beauty. It is, rather more coyly, also about a man who died after having sex with a stallion. (Dargis) Film Series and Revivals LINDSAY ANDERSON'S MICK TRAVIS TRILOGY (Wednesday and Thursday) The British director Lindsay Anderson made three films centered on his everyman character, Mick Travis, played by Malcolm McDowell as a public school rebel in ''If '' (1968), as a disillusioned traveling coffee salesman in ''O Lucky Man!'' (1973) and finally as a hapless victim of the collapsing English health care system in ''Britannia Hospital'' (1982). Anthology Film Archives has managed to assemble all three features for rare sequential screenings -- no easy feat, because each film is controlled by a different company. The screenings begin on Wednesday with ''If '' and ''O Lucky Man!'' and continue on Thursday with ''O Lucky Man!'' and ''Britannia Hospital.'' The films continue in rotation through June 17. Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Dave Kehr) SAM FULLER (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Museum of the Moving Image wraps up its retrospective of the vivid, visceral work of this tabloid reporter turned filmmaker this weekend with screenings of the restored 158-minute version of his World War II epic, ''The Big Red One'' (1980), as well as three rarely shown films from Fuller's late period: ''Dead Pigeon on Beethoven Street'' (1972) and ''White Dog'' (1981) tomorrow, and ''Street of No Return'' (1982) on Sunday. Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Kehr) THE LONELINESS OF THE LONG DISTANCE SINGER (Monday) A rare showing of Chris Marker's 1974 documentary about the French singer and political activist Yves Montand, presented with two short films by Mr. Marker, ''The Embassy'' (1973) and ''The Sixth Side of the Pentagon'' (1968). BAM Cinematek, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; bam.org; $10. (Kehr) OPEN ROADS: NEW ITALIAN CINEMA (Today through Thursday) A selection of notable recent Italian films continues tonight with the premiere of Angelo Longoni's ''Caravaggio,'' which stars Alessio Boni (''The Best of Youth'') as the tempestuous painter of the title and features cinematography by another Italian master of light and shadow, Vittorio Storaro. Among the week's other highlights: ''In Memory of Me,'' the second feature of Saverio Costanzo (''Private''), about a young man who enters an island seminary (tomorrow and Wednesday); ''Primo Levi's Journey,'' a documentary by Davide Ferrario that traces Levi's path from the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp to his home in Turin (Wednesday and Thursday); and ''See Naples and Die,'' an examination of the city in all of its glory and squalor, directed by Enrico Caria (tomorrow and Monday). Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr) Pop Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. * LILY ALLEN (Tuesday) A 22-year-old British singer with deceptively sweet, ska-infused electro-pop songs, Ms. Allen is at her best when snarkily putting down disagreeable suitors. ''Smile,'' a No. 1 hit in England, is pure schadenfreude, and ''Knock 'Em Out'' a catalog of snappy answers to bad pickup lines: ''I've got herpes. No, I've got syphilis.'' With Kevin Michael. At 6:45 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; sold out. (Ben Sisario) ARCHITECTURE IN HELSINKI, BLACK MOTH SUPER RAINBOW (Tonight) If the musical segments on ''Sesame Street'' were made with a chamber orchestra and choir and intended for an audience of hyperintelligent prodigies, they might sound something like Architecture in Helsinki, from Australia: frolicsome and inventive, as if every instrument were being played for the first time. Black Moth Super Rainbow, from Pittsburgh, delivers shimmering psychedelia through a screen of pulsating keyboards and blissed-out, robotic vocals. With Santogold. At 9, Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $20. (Sisario) BABY GRAMPS (Tonight, tomorrow and Tuesday) With a gray beard the size of small shrubbery, a raspy Popeye voice and manic skills on the steel guitar, Baby Gramps offers a cartoonish variation on the role of hobo troubadour in old-timey songs like ''Big Rock Candy Mountain.'' But where he really shines is with hilarious and ingenious wordplay, as in his palindrome song (''Go hang a salami -- I'm a lasagna hog''). Tonight at 7, Terra Blues, 149 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 777-7776, terrablues.com; $10. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; $10. Tuesday at 8 p.m., with Kill Henry Sugar, at the Gershwin Hotel, 7 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (646) 207-0595, gershwinhotel.com; $10. (Sisario) EEF BARZELAY (Wednesday) With a homely, nasal tenor and a few lonesome strums on his guitar, Mr. Barzelay, of the band Clem Snide, can render heartache with trompe-l'oeil precision or, if the mood strikes him, simply goof off. In one song on his latest solo album, ''Bitter Honey'' (SpinArt), he takes on the persona of a woman whose rear end makes an appearance in a hip-hop video: ''It was on screen for a second but was kind of hard to miss.'' At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario) BOOKER T. AND THE MG'S, SHARON JONES (Wednesday and Thursday) As the house band of Stax Records in the 1960s, Booker T. Jones and his crew had an incalculable role in the creation of Southern soul-funk, mixing musky blues with house-rocking R&B grooves built around the whirr of the organ. Sharon Jones is the queen of an active local scene that recreates, spiritedly but not too pedantically, the vintage Stax sound. Wednesday at 7 p.m., Rockefeller Park, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, rivertorivernyc.com; Thursday at noon, BAM Rhythm & Blues Festival, MetroTech Commons Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Myrtle Street, downtown Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; both free. (Sisario) BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday and Monday) Elegant, witty and touching, this classically trained jazz pianist and singer, now 82, is in her prime: the female counterpart of Bobby Short. Sunday at 2 p.m., Monday at 8 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $58 on Sunday, with brunch at noon; $40 on Monday, with a $20 minimum. (Stephen Holden) * CARTEL (Tuesday) Those polished, punky riffs and bright singalong choruses straight out of the Blink-182 playbook are not the only signs that this Atlanta band isn't averse to blatant commercialism. Since May 24, Cartel has been inside a giant fiberglass bubble on Pier 54 in Manhattan, recording its second album in a carefully choreographed publicity stunt that involves an MTV reality show and Web tie-ins from Dr Pepper. On Tuesday the band emerges from the bubble and plays a concert on the pier. Presumably Dr Pepper will be on sale. At 6 p.m., Hudson River at 13th Street, West Village, (212) 533-7275, hudsonriverpark.org; free. (Sisario) THE CLIENTELE (Tonight) There's comfort in familiarity, and the soft, sweetly finessed songs by this veteran British indie-cabaret band, with echoes of the Byrds' gleaming folk-rock and George Harrison's breathy calm -- expertly channeled by Alasdair Maclean -- are a seductive sonic cocoon. With Beach House and Pipas. At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario) COWBOY JUNKIES (Wednesday) Almost 20 years ago this Toronto band released an instant classic with the somber and starkly elegant ''Trinity Session.'' And though on subsequent albums the Cowboy Junkies have never returned to that expressive peak, the delicate interplay between Margo Timmins's velvety alto and her brother Michael Timmins's muted guitar can be chillingly beautiful. At 8 p.m., the Concert Hall at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, concertstonight.com; $40. (Sisario) DEFTONES (Tonight and tomorrow night) Alternately glum and explosive, this long-running alt-metal band from Sacramento plays tightly compacted guitar riffs as the singer Chino Moreno howls and croons on themes of disintegration and decay. With Dir En Grey and the Fall of Troy. At 7:30, Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, roselandballroom.com; $27.50 (sold out tomorrow). (Sisario) DUMPSTAPHUNK (Tonight) The MySpace image for Ivan Neville's new band gives an idea of where it's coming from: the site shows a satellite picture of Hurricane Katrina about to crash into New Orleans. Funk bands are supposed to be about good times, and Dumpstaphunk, the current reigning New Orleans funk outfit, provides that in abundance. But in angry, topical songs like ''Livin' in a World Gone Mad'' it also reminds us why the good vibes are so badly needed. At 11, B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $17. (Sisario) * FEIST (Monday and Tuesday) Leslie Feist, who performs under her last name, has become a genuine star of the mellow indie-arty scene with deliciously melodic songs on grown-up topics that balance pop ambitions with outsider quirkiness. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, the-townhall-nyc.org; sold out. (Sisario) * HAPPY MONDAYS (Wednesday and Thursday) Working-class hedonists obsessed with the highs of trippy dance music (and with other kinds of highs), Happy Mondays embodied the ''Madchester'' rave-rock scene in Britain of the late 1980s and early '90s. In its latest reincarnation the band plays as the centerpiece of In the City of New York, a two-day conference organized by Tony Wilson, the Factory Records impresario who discovered Happy Mondays, as told in the film ''24 Hour Party People.'' At 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com or inthecityofnewyork.com; $35. (Sisario) LONG BLONDES (Tomorrow) Kate Jackson of the Long Blondes, from Sheffield, England, has figured out at least one important thing about being a pop star: people listen to you when you look good. Her band has made a splash at home as much for its smart and catchy new wave update as for Ms. Jackson's vintage skirts and ''Marlene Dietrich-meets-rockabilly chic,'' as one magazine put it. With the Virgins and the King Left. At 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario) BERT JANSCH (Sunday) One of the prime movers of the 1960s British folk scene, Mr. Jansch played knotty and expressive acoustic guitar that influenced Jimmy Page and Neil Young, and in songs like ''Needle of Death'' sang in an invitingly guileless voice of a bohemian demimonde. His appearance on the soundtrack to ''The Squid and the Whale'' and interest from neo-folk stars like Beth Orton and Devendra Banhart -- who both appear on his latest album, ''The Black Swan'' (Drag City) -- have introduced him to an appreciative young audience. With P. G. Six and Kevin Barker. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $18. (Sisario) JOHN BROWN'S BODY (Tonight) Founded in Ithaca, N.Y., John Brown's Body plays old-fashioned reggae, sometimes updated with dub-inspired electronic effects; the results are less ham-fisted than you might think, which isn't saying much. With Trumystic and Quintus. At 9, Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-5994, highlineballroom.com; $17. (Kelefa Sanneh) LOSER'S LOUNGE TRIBUTE TO FLEETWOOD MAC (Tonight and tomorrow night) As Nick Lowe said, you've got to be cruel to be kind. Joe McGinty's enduring Loser's Lounge series, now 14, both honors and skewers pop greats with cleverly over-the-top performances, and turns its attention here to soft-rock's most incestuous hitmakers. At 7 and 9:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Sisario) MELT-BANANA (Sunday) The hiccups of guitar and squeals of vocals fly by so fast in the hyperactive music of Melt-Banana, from Japan, that it seems a minor miracle that so many playful pop melodies survive. With Drop Dead and Children. At 7:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sisario) * NEVILLE BROTHERS (Thursday) Celebrate Brooklyn opens with one of the musical jewels of New Orleans, whose funk lineage stretches back to the 1950s, when the keyboardist Art Neville recorded ''Mardi Gras Mambo'' with the Hawketts. At 5:30 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882, brooklynx.org; $3 suggested donation. (Sisario) LEE (SCRATCH) PERRY (Thursday) Mr. Perry's quirks are inseparable from his inspirations. He is one of reggae's most important producers, using the studio to fill arrangements with distortion, ghostly echoes and disorienting silences. As a performer, he sings and rants, with lucid nuggets surrounded by malarkey as he discourses on space aliens, sex, the International Monetary Fund and marijuana. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Jon Pareles) PINK MARTINI (Wednesday) The Hollywood lounge band gone global, this 12-or-so-piece ensemble from Portland, Ore., follows a retro glamour jet stream from Rio to Havana to Paris. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $40 to $55. (Sisario) JILL SCOTT (Wednesday and Thursday) Jill Scott spills out words, spoken like hip-hop poetry or sung with jazzy timing, to detail the aspirations and loves of a sensual, intelligent and self-assured woman. The R&B crooner Musiq Soulchild opens on Wednesday; on Thursday the bill is shared by a vocal powerhouse, Chaka Khan, and a current pop hitmaker, Robin Thicke. Mo'Nique is the host of these two shows at Radio City Music Hall. At 8 p.m., (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $49.50 to $69.50 on Wednesday, sold out on Thursday. (Pareles) * STEELY DAN (Sunday, Monday and Wednesday) In 2000 Steely Dan released its first new songs in 20 years on ''Two Against Nature,'' and its members, Donald Fagen and Walter Becker, crammed them full of musical subterfuges. The band once hated touring but has become quite proficient at it, especially now that Mr. Becker has accepted his inevitable role as lead guitarist. At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171, beacontheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Pareles) JOSS STONE, COMMON (Today) The self-reinvention pitch behind her third album says that Ms. Stone is over her early phase of imitating 1960s and '70s soul. But on ''Introducing Joss Stone'' (Virgin), this husky-voiced British 20-year-old still holds fast to retro sounds, this time a high-energy soul-funk tinged with hip-hop. Common, the socially conscious rapper from Chicago, will release his seventh album, ''Finding Forever,'' next month, but he's already on the campaign trail, comparing it to the work of Bob Marley and Marvin Gaye. Also on the bill for this benefit for Central Park SummerStage is Ryan Shaw, who, in a smoking version of Wilson Pickett's ''I Found a Love,'' does the soul-revival thing as well as can be done. At 5 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 307-7171, summerstage.org; $40. (Sisario) MARY TIMONY BAND (Thursday) Mary Timony, who led the band Helium, has kept her tightly wound guitar riffs but has gradually left behind the personality crises of indie-rock to ponder higher thoughts and cosmic forces. With Georgie James and Welcome. At 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700, mercuryloungenyc.com; $10. (Pareles) * RUFUS WAINWRIGHT (Tonight and tomorrow night) There is bad drama and good drama, and nobody does good drama like Rufus Wainwright, who completes a sold-out four-night engagement at the Blender Theater at Gramercy. With Teddy Thompson tonight and Jason Hart tomorrow night. At 8, 127 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171. (Sisario) Jazz Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music. CARL ALLEN-RODNEY WHITAKER PROJECT (Monday) ''Get Ready'' (Mack Avenue), a new album jointly made by the drummer Carl Allen and the bassist Rodney Whitaker, features a cast of soulful musicians like the alto saxophonist Steve Wilson and the guitarist Rodney Jones, who both appear here. At 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen) JAMIE BAUM SEPTET (Tonight) The flutist Jamie Baum favors a carefully organized approach to composition but manages to create ample space for improvisation; a good thing, given that her ensemble here consists of Ralph Alessi on trumpet, Douglas Yates on alto saxophone and bass clarinet, Vincent Chancey on French horn, Vijay Iyer on piano, Boris Kozlov on bass and Jeff Hirshfield on drums. At 8, Neighborhood Church of Greenwich Village, 269 Bleecker Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 691-1770, ncgv.com; free. (Chinen) JOHN BENITEZ SEXTET (Tonight) John Benitez, an authoritative bassist in jazz as well as Latin settings, leads a group with two tenor saxophonists upfront, Michael Webster and Donny McCaslin. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. (Chinen) EDDIE BERT TRIO (Tonight) Eddie Bert is an esteemed trombonist with a wellspring of experience in big bands and on Broadway. His trio includes another seasoned veteran, the bassist Bill Crow, along with the guitarist Stephen Roane. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen) STEVE CARDENAS TRIO (Tomorrow) Steve Cardenas, a sharp modern guitarist, engages with an established rhythm team: the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Matt Wilson. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) KRIS DAVIS QUARTET (Sunday) As on the recent album ''The Slightest Shift'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the keyboardist Kris Davis leads her working group, with Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Eivind Opsvik on bass and Jeff Davis, her husband, on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) JOEY DeFRANCESCO TRIO (Thursday) The Hammond B-3 organ doesn't have a more effective evangelist than Joey DeFrancesco, whose soulful trio, with Jake Langley on guitar and Byron Landham on drums, makes way for a heavy-gauge guest, the tenor saxophonist George Coleman. (Through June 17.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen) MIKE DiRUBBO QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The alto saxophonist Mike DiRubbo practices a straightforward brand of bebop on his new album, ''New York Accent'' (Cellar Live), recorded live at the Kitano Hotel. For this return engagement, Mr. DiRubbo enlists David Bryant on piano, Paul Gill on bass and Tony Reedus on drums. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen) THE FOUR BAGS/BROOKLYN QAWWALI PARTY (Sunday) The instrumental palette of the Four Bags -- trombone, accordion, guitar and reeds -- suits their modern sort of chamber jazz. Brooklyn Qawwali Party, which plays a later set, uses a more percussive assortment of instruments to create its caffeinated take on the Sufi devotional music of Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. At 7 and 9 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) FREESTYLE JAZZ (Sunday) This installment of the descriptively titled East Village series comprises successive sets by the Jim Ryan Quintet, with Mr. Ryan and Dave Sewelson on saxophones, Bruce Eisenbeil on guitar and Dee Pop, the series organizer, on drums; and Limbic Trio, a project of the guitarist and multireedist Elliott Sharp. At 7 and 9 p.m., Jimmy's No. 43, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) GOLD SPARKLE TRIO (Tonight) This rough-and-tumble avant-garde outfit performs an early set tonight with Charles Waters on reeds and piano, Adam Roberts on bass and Andrew Barker on drums; a second set will include additional surprise guests. At 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) JOEL HARRISON AND HARBOR (Monday) ''Harbor'' (HighNote), the new album by the guitarist Joel Harrison, imagines a modern fusion of Western and Eastern tonalities. Revisiting that music here, Mr. Harrison enlists another guitarist, Brad Shepik, along with the saxophonist David Binney, the bassist Hans Glawischnig and the drummer Dan Weiss. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) RANDY JOHNSTON TRIO (Tomorrow and Thursday) Presenting a new composition inspired by the Bronx River, the guitarist Randy Johnston leads a formidable trio with Nat Reeves on bass and Gene Jackson on drums. Tomorrow at 6 p.m., Bronx River Arts Center, 1087 East Tremont Avenue, at West Farms Square, Fordham, (718) 589-5819, bronxriverart.org; $10 suggested donation. Thursday at 8 and 9:45 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) * GUILLERMO KLEIN Y LOS GAUCHOS (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Guillermo Klein, a restlessly creative Argentine pianist and composer now based in Barcelona, Spain, leads his signature 11-piece band, stocked with talent like the trumpeter Diego Urcola and the saxophonists Chris Cheek and Bill McHenry. (Through June 17.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) RAMSEY LEWIS (Thursday) A successful crossover artist for more than 40 years, the pianist Ramsey Lewis presents a coolly boppish working trio with Larry Gray on bass and Leon Joyce Jr. on drums. (Through June 17.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen) TONY MALABY'S EXPLODING HEART (Tomorrow) Presumably the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby didn't consult his cardiologist before coming up with the name for this strenuously experimental trio, with William Parker on bass and Nasheet Waits on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; $10 for members. (Chinen) ANDY MILNE (Wednesday and Thursday) On Wednesday Mr. Milne plays his piano in duets with the harmonica virtuoso Gregoire Maret, as on their new album, ''Scenarios'' (ObliqSound); on Thursday he leads Dapp Theory, a hip-hop-inflected group with John Moon on vocals, Loren Stillman on saxophones, Chris Tordini on bass and Kenny Grohowski on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $12; $10 for members. (Chinen) * DAVID MURRAY BLACK SAINT QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) A spirited, sometimes blustery tenor saxophonist, David Murray enlists the same working rhythm section that appears on his politically charged new album, ''Sacred Ground'' (JustinTime): the pianist Lafayette Gilchrist, the bassist Ray Drummond and the drummer Andrew Cyrille. (Through June 16.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) JEFF NEWELL'S NEW-TRAD OCTET (Thursday) This aptly named band led by the saxophonist Jeff Newell appears as part of the Bargemusic concert series, celebrating the release of its first album, ''Brownstone,'' with a respectfully revisionist set of early jazz, gospel and parade music. At 8 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing near the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students. (Chinen) * NIGHT OF THE RAVISHED LIMBS (Wednesday) In its first set, this installment of the Park Slope series showcases a collaborative trio with the Danish saxophonist Lotte Anker, the Minneapolis-reared pianist Craig Taborn and the Detroit-born drummer Gerald Cleaver. The second set features another trio, with Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Angelica Sanchez on Wurlitzer piano and Tom Rainey on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) * EDDIE PALMIERI TRIO (Wednesday and Thursday) Eddie Palmieri, salsa's pioneering pianist and bandleader, makes a rare appearance without a horn section, though he'll have a dynamite guest soloist in the form of the tenor saxophonist David Sanchez. (Through June 17.) At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen) ERIC REED QUARTET/QUINTET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This weekend the pianist Eric Reed fronts a quartet with Jeff Clayton on alto saxophone, Gerald Cannon on bass and Willie Jones III on drums; next week he'll have the same rhythm section but two saxophonists, Stacy Dillard and Seamus Blake. (Through June 17.) At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen) JEROME SABBAGH QUARTET (Tuesday) Jerome Sabbagh, an unassumingly self-assured tenor saxophonist and composer in the postmodern mainstream, leads a sleek ensemble with Lage Lund on guitar, Joe Martin on bass and Otis Brown III on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Louis 649, 649 East Ninth Street, at Avenue C, East Village, (212) 673-1190, louis649.com; no cover. (Chinen) BRAD SHEPIK TRIO (Tonight) On his recent album ''Places You Go'' (Songlines), the broad-minded guitarist Brad Shepik spearheads a trio with Gary Versace on Hammond B-3 organ and Tom Rainey on drums. Here he works with Mr. Rainey and a bassist, John Hebert. At 9 and 10:30, Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) OMAR SOSA (Tuesday and Wednesday) Mr. Sosa, a spirited Afro-Cuban jazz pianist, previews music from his next release, ''Afreecanos'' (Ota); his partners in rhythm are the electric bassist Childo Tomas and the drummer Julio Barreto. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $25 at tables, $15 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen) ESPERANZA SPALDING TRIO (Wednesday) Esperanza Spalding is a gifted young bassist and singer whose debut album, ''Junjo'' (Ayva), finds her calmly guiding a trio. She performs in that format here, with Leo Genovese on piano and Lyndon Rochelle on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen) MIKE STERN BAND (Wednesday) The guitarist Mike Stern has a goofily titled new album, ''Who Let the Cats Out?'' (Heads Up), that features the quite serious electric bass playing of Richard Bona. This engagement features Mr. Bona, along with the drummer Lionel Cordew. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen) * TRIBUTE TO OSCAR PETERSON: MASTER OF SWING (Tonight) This legendary pianist, now in his 80s, won't personally preside over this tribute, but that's no reason to overlook an embarrassment of riches that includes the pianists Hank Jones, Billy Taylor and Marian McPartland; the trumpeters Clark Terry and Wynton Marsalis; and the singers Dee Dee Bridgewater and Freddy Cole. At 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $18 to $66. (Chinen) * RANDY WESTON (Tonight and tomorrow night) The pianism of Randy Weston can recall Duke Ellington and Thelonious Monk, but as a composer, he has long reached beyond strict jazz traditions, as he demonstrates best with his longstanding African Rhythms ensembles. His program here is intended as a tribute to the composer James Reese Europe. At 7:30, Harlem Stage at the Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 650-7100, harlemstage.org; $35. (Chinen) * ZANUSSI FIVE (Tonight and Sunday) This hyperkinetic young Norwegian band, led by the bassist Per Zanussi, features a front line of three assertive saxophonists -- Rolf-Erik Nystrom, Kjetil Moster and Eirik Hegdal -- along with an excellent drummer, Per Oddvar Johansen. Tonight at 8:30, Center for Improvisational Music, 295 Douglass Street, near Third Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 631-5882, schoolforimprov.org; cover, $10; $6 for students. Sunday at 7 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, myspace.com/konceptionsatbar4; $5 suggested donation. (Chinen) Classical Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera 'FALSTAFF' (Tomorrow and Sunday) In its heyday on Bleecker Street, Amato Opera was where young New Yorkers saw their first operas; in its current home on the Bowery, it has taken on a certain quality of camp. But its loyal fans still love it, and it still loves opera, and offers Verdi with all of that love, so that some of the spirit of the opera comes across almost in spite of the variable skills of its performers. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200, amato.org; $35; $28 for students and 65+. (Anne Midgette) MET IN THE PARKS (Tuesday and Wednesday) Opera companies are always drumming up new ways to attract a big audience. But the crowds that flock, picnic in tow, to New York city parks for the Metropolitan Opera's annual outdoor summer performances seem to need little enticement. This month the Met is offering ''La Boheme'' and ''Faust.'' At ''Boheme'' on Tuesday, Gareth Morrell conducts Hei-Kyung Hong as Mimi, Mary Dunleavy as Musetta, Roberto Aronica as Rodolfo, Dwayne Croft as Marcello, Jeff Mattsey as Schaunard and Andrew Gangestad as Colline. For ''Faust'' on Wednesday, Maurizio Benini conducts David Pomeroy in the title role, Katie Van Kooten as Marguerite, Kate Lindsey as Siebel, Hung Yun as Valentin and James Morris as Mephistopheles. At 8 p.m., Great Lawn, Central Park, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; free. (Vivien Schweitzer) Classical Music BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) Romanticism and early Modernism are on the agenda at this floating concert hall this week. Tonight Dmitry Alexeev devotes his piano recital to Beethoven's Sonatas Nos. 5 and 32, as well as to works by Chopin, and Beethoven has the stage to himself in a chamber program on Wednesday that includes the Septet (Op. 20) as its centerpiece. Tomorrow afternoon Julia Zilberquit plays piano music by Liadov, Medtner, Rachmaninoff and Tcherepnin, and tomorrow evening and on Sunday afternoon, Dmitry and Anya Alexeev pick up this Russian thread in a program of piano works by Balakirev, Liadov and Medtner, with a piano four-hands version of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' as its conclusion. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 1 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+ tonight and on Thursday. (Allan Kozinn) CONNECTICUT EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight and Sunday) This annual three-week feast of early music, slightly spare yet charming in the best New England tradition, begins this weekend with what you could call song and dance. Tonight the vocal trio Liber Unusualis performs mystical songs from the 14th and 15th centuries; on Sunday Vivaldi's complete ''Estro Armonico,'' a groundbreaking sequence of 12 concerti, will be performed in the original chamber instrumentation. Tonight at 8, Enders Island Chapel, Mason's Island, Mystic; Sunday at 6 p.m., Christ the King Church, Old Lyme, (860) 444-2419, ctearlymusic.org; $20 to $26. (Midgette) * DA CAPO CHAMBER PLAYERS (Tonight) The innovative Da Capo Chamber Ensemble concludes its 36th season with ''Sonic Brew,'' a lively program of contemporary works featuring David Lang's ''Sweet Air''; Randall Woolf's ''No Luck, No Happiness''; Beth May's ''Gloaming''; Jefferson Friedman's ''78''; Jacob ter Veldhuis's ''Grab It!''; John Halle's ''Free People''; and Marc Mellits's ''Spam.'' At 7:30, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, knittingfactory.com or dacapochamberplayers.org; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer) * EMERSON STRING QUARTET (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) For their Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall, these superb musicians are presenting a complete cycle of the Beethoven quartets, but in a much larger framework. These seminal works are being performed alongside pieces by composers from Bach to Kaija Saariaho, whose ''Terra Memoria'' has been commissioned especially for this occasion. Sunday's program juxtaposes Beethoven's ''Harp'' and ''Serioso'' Quartets with works by Anton Webern and Bartok's teeming Third Quartet. The Emerson, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary with this series, sounded in top form for the first concert. The one drawback is Carnegie Hall, which for all its acoustical glory, is not an ideal space for an intimate string quartet experience. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $79. (Anthony Tommasini) * ENSEMBLE ACJW (Tomorrow) Earlier this year Carnegie Hall, the Weill Music Institute and the Juilliard School jointly instituted a visionary program to train outstanding young musicians on the verge of professional careers and integrate them into the music programs of selected New York City public schools. The emerging artists have been showcased this spring in several concerts at Carnegie Hall. The next one is tomorrow night, an exciting and ambitious program with large-scale works by Webern, Ligeti, Henri Dutilleux, Mauricio Kagel and John Adams (the Chamber Symphony). But the sponsors should strongly consider coming up with a better name for this talented roster of players. At 7 p.m., Zankel Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org, $15. (Tommasini) MANNES BEETHOVEN INSTITUTE (Tonight) This weeklong program of instruction, lectures and concerts, which ends on Sunday, has been dealing mainly with Beethoven's chamber music. Tonight's faculty concert offers the Piano Trio in D from Op. 70; the Piano Sonata in E (Op. 109), with Claude Frank; and the Brentano String Quartet playing the late E flat Quartet (Op. 127). At 8, Mannes College the New School for Music, 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 580-0210, newschool.edu/mannes/bi; $20. (Bernard Holland) NEW YORK PHILARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) Riccardo Muti may not be coming to the Philharmonic as music director, but he does drop by periodically, and he is doing so right now. Tonight, tomorrow and Tuesday, music by Cherubini and Hindemith frames a performance of Beethoven's ''Emperor'' Concerto with the pianist Lang Lang providing the flash. Mr. Muti reappears with a new program of Rossini, Schubert and Dvorak on Thursday. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $38 to $106. (Holland) * St. Luke'S CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow and Sunday) ''Unbound'' is the title of the second program in ''Notable Women,'' St. Luke's chamber festival celebrating female composers. It denotes women who have sufficiently freed themselves of the stigma of being female -- evidently still something of a handicap in a field that remains around 80 percent male -- to achieve success. They include Jennifer Higdon, Libby Larsen and Joan Tower, who has organized the whole festival as a way to promote discussion and, on a practical level, a new burst of ''old-girl'' networking. The first performance of a commissioned work by Kati Agocs is also on the program. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., Chelsea Art Museum, 556 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; Sunday at 3 p.m.,Dia:Beacon, Beacon, N.Y., (212) 594-6100, oslmusic.org; $20. (Midgette) WESTERN WIND (Tonight) This vocal ensemble has performed an enormous repertory over the years, from ancient to modern works, with occasional excursions into pop and theater music offsetting their more typical classical programs. Its current program is all contemporary music, and includes the world premiere of ''Basket Rondo,'' written for the group by Meredith Monk. Scores by Philip Glass, Tania Leon, William Bolcom, Robert Dennis, Matthew Harris, Eric Salzman, Gayla D. Morgan and one of the ensemble's singers, Elliot Z. Levine, are also included. At 8, Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 873-2848, westernwind.org; $25; $15 for students and 65+. (Kozinn) Dance Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. * AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight, tomorrow and Monday through Thursday) The company's controversial new production of ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' filled with equal moments of beauty and wrongheadedness, will be performed tonight and tomorrow. Tonight's cast features Irina Dvorovenko (Aurora) and Maxim Belotserkovsky (Desire), followed by Gillian Murphy and David Hallberg tomorrow afternoon, and Diana Vishneva and Mr. Hallberg in the evening. Kenneth MacMillan's ''Manon'' moves in next week. (Through July 7.) Take your pick. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Monday through Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $24 to $110. (Jennifer Dunning) LORI BELILOVE (Tonight) Ms. Belilove, who specializes in the dances of Isadora Duncan, will present her own choreography in a program titled ''The EveryWoman Series: The Red Thread.'' The dances are set to music by Chopin, performed live. At 8 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 691-5040, isadoraduncan.org; $28. (Dunning) CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company will perform ''Decadance,'' a suite of excerpts from dances created since 1985 by Ohad Naharin, director of Dance Company, in Tel Aviv. (Through July 1.) Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 7 p.m., Tuesday through Thursday at 8 p.m., Cedar Lake Theater, 547 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444, cedarlakedance.com; $40; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning) DANCE AT DNA (Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday) This weekend the Stefanie Nelson Dance Group performs an interactive multimedia dance inspired by the antics of Alice in Wonderland. On Thursday Neta Pulvermacher's Neta Dance Company performs a new trilogy that laughs at death, set to music by Elvis Presley and featuring a bluebird chandelier. (Through June 17.) At 8, Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200, dnadance.org; $17 for Nelson; $20 for Pulvermacher. (Dunning) DANCEMOPOLITAN AT JOE'S PUB (Thursday) ''Villains and Heroes, the 100 most influential people who (n)ever lived,'' is a suite of dances inspired by the favorite villains and heroes of the choreographers who are performing. The dancers are former members of Stephen Petronio's company, and Mr. Petronio himself is the evening's host. (Through June 15.) At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Dunning) * Food for Thought (Tonight through Sunday night) Downtown dance performances can feel as if they happen in a bubble, but this weekend you can have your art and be an activist too, as Food for Thought features three evenings organized by Irene Hultman, Jonah Bokaer and Gina Gibney. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $5 with two cans of food, or $10. (Claudia La Rocco) RISA JAROSLOW (Thursday) Ms. Jaroslow's solo, ''A Jew in Poland,'' addresses the destruction of old Jewish communities in that country. It is being performed in connection with an exhibition, ''And I Still See Their Faces: The Vanished World of Polish Jews,'' and will be followed by a discussion with the choreographer-performer. At 7 p.m., Yeshiva University Museum, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, (917) 606-8200, yumuseum.org; $8; $6 for students and 65+. (Dunning) MARC BAMUTHI JOSEPH (Tonight and tomorrow night) A Renaissance activist, Mr. Joseph will take a look at two centuries of Haitian independence through hip-hop, poetry and music. At 8, Kumble Theater for the Performing Arts at Long Island University, Brooklyn Campus, Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues, downtown Brooklyn, (718) 488-1264, 651ARTS.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning) Movement Research at the Judson Church (Monday) It's the last chance this season to catch experiments in movement from some of today's most inquisitive artists. This week catch Ivy Baldwin, Sujin Lee and Paul Singh. At 8 p.m., 55 Washington Square South, South Village, (212) 598-0551, movementresearch.org; Free. (La Rocco) * NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The big news is the premiere tonight of Christopher Wheeldon's new work ''The Nightingale and the Rose,'' set to music by Bright Sheng, the company's resident composer, and starring Wendy Whelan, Sara Mearns and Tyler Angle. Tonight's program, ''Tradition and Innovation,'' also includes Peter Martins's ''Jeu de Cartes'' and ''Robert Schumann's 'Davidsbundlertanze' '' and, oddly, the Rosenkavalier section of ''Vienna Waltzes,'' by George Balanchine. Other programs are the ''one-time-only'' combination of Mr. Wheeldon's new ballet, Balanchine's ''Union Jack'' and ''Rubies'' from Balanchine's ''Jewels,'' danced for the first time by Megan Fairchild and the delicious Joaquin De Luz. Completing the week's repertory are ''Three By Bach'' (Balanchine's ''Concerto Barocco,'' Christopher d'Amboise's ''Tribute'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Brandenburg''), tomorrow night; ''Essential Balanchine'' (''Walpurgisnacht Ballet,'' ''Liebeslieder Walzer'' and ''Symphony in Three Movements,'' on Sunday); the Balanchine classic ''Jewels'' (Tuesday and Thursday); and ''Balanchine and Robbins: Masters at Work'' (Balanchine's ''Raymonda Variations'' and ''Stravinsky Violin Concerto'' and Robbins's ''Dybbuk,'' on Wednesday. (Through June 24.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p. m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $15 to $86. (Dunning) NOCHE FLAMENCA (Tonight through Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) It's back, with a new piece called ''Aldaba'' and the company star, Soledad Barrio, she of unfailing fire. (Through July 29.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 5 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, at First Avenue, East Village, (212) 352-3101, theatremania.com; $55. (Dunning) JODY OBERFELDER DANCE PROJECTS (Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Oberfelder, known for her acrobatic, high-energy dance mixed with glints of humor, will present her new ''Heavy Light,'' inspired by Horace Walpole's notion that life is a comedy for thinkers and a tragedy for those who feel, and ''The Title Comes Last,'' in which performers travel from a workaday world into ''a land of vibrancy.'' Take us with you. (Through June 17.) At 7 p.m., The Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org; $20; $12 for students and 65+; $175 to $250 for the gala on Wednesday, including reception and postperformance dinner. (Dunning) Pascal Rioult Dance Theater (Tuesday through Thursday) The company celebrates its 15th anniversary with two premieres, including ''EXP#1,'' set to an electronic score, as well as the return of ''If by Chance'' and ''Black Diamond.'' (Through June 17.) Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $38. (La Rocco) SENS/NOEMIE LAFRANCE (Thursday) Ms. Lafrance, known for visually dramatic site-specific dance, will present performances of a work in progress called ''Rapture,'' in which dancers travel across stainless-steel roofs and walls in a response to the architectural design of Frank Gehry's Fisher Center. (Through June 16.) At 8 p.m., Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College, Annandale on the Hudson, N.Y., (575) 758-7900, fishercenter.bard.edu. (Dunning) STREB SLAM (Tonight through Sunday) High-flying, wall-crashing thrills and chills, and popcorn besides. (Through June 17.) Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 3 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Streb Laboratory for Action Mechanics, 51 North First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 352-3101, strebusa.org; $20; $10 for children. (Dunning) NINA WINTHROP AND DANCERS (Tonight through Sunday) Dancers will perform Ms. Winthrop's ''Constraints I, II & III.'' Each is a quartet, danced by women, that explores the expectations and pressures women face. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7, Sunday at 3 p.m., Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org; $15; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning) Art Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums * brooklyn museum: 'GLOBAL FEMINISMS,' through July 1. Too much of the work in this assembly of pieces by nearly 90 women from nearly 50 countries is body-oriented and doesn't venture beyond the essentialism of Judy Chicago's indomitable 1975-79 installation opus, ''The Dinner Party,'' whose enshrinement in the new Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art this exhibition celebrates. Thoroughly dominated by photography and video, with a documentary slant to many of its better moments, the show is more about information, politics and the struggle for equality than it is about art in any very concentrated or satisfying sense. That doesn't keep parts of it from being energetic and illuminating. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KINDRED SPIRITS: ASHER B. DURAND AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through July 29. This show of about 60 works by Durand has as its centerpiece ''Kindred Spirits'' (1849), a tribute to the landscapist Thomas Cole and his friend the poet and journalist William Cullen Bryant. A founder of the Hudson River School, Durand (1796-1886) favored the realistic approach to landscape. He explored forest interiors with close attention to the ways of trees, foliage and rocks and ground cover in smaller works, while his larger and more elaborate exhibition pictures, influenced by European masters, are Arcadian visions suffused with light, color and atmospheric perspective. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DIVISIONISM/NEO-IMPRESSIONISM: ARCADIA AND ANARCHY,' through Aug. 6. Ultimately this rare, compressed, mercurial exhibition of work by the Italian Divisionists of the 1890s is long on history and short on truly convincing paintings. The inclusion of works by Seurat and his French, Dutch and Belgian followers clarifies how the Italians pushed Pointillism, Seurat's invention, in all directions: toward realism, academic classicism, Symbolism, class consciousness and even Impressionism. The show opens a new, albeit small, window on the genesis of Modernism beyond the French canon. If many of the works are period pieces, they are also immensely appealing, big-hearted and physically robust period pieces. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Smith) * INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979,' through Sept. 9. In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did makes up most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's laconic eloquence speaks of an era and a nation. Its wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of threadbare America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. (Michael Kimmelman) * International Center of Photography: 'Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits,' through Sept. 9. This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, too heavy on glitz, too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) (Holland Cotter) THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'IMPRESSIONIST AND EARLY MODERN PAINTINGS:THE CLARK BROTHERS COLLECT,' through Aug. 19. The Met examines the lives and collecting habits of two feuding brothers, heirs to the Singer sewing machine fortune, who were among the leading 20th-century art patrons. Sterling Clark was founder of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass. His younger brother Stephen was a trustee of both the Met and the Museum of Modern Art (and established the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.) The brothers shared a love of Renoir, Degas and Americans like Winslow Homer, but Sterling ''drew the line'' at Cezanne and considered Matisse and Picasso ''bad painters and fakers.'' Tracking their taste and how they dispersed their collections is interesting -- and perhaps instructive for contemporary collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener) * THE MET: 'Poiret: KING OF FASHION,' through Aug. 5. A revolutionary in revolutionary times, the fashion designer Paul Poiret introduced unstructured garments that freed women from corsets in 1906, the year before Picasso committed his decidedly uninhibited (and unstaid) ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' to canvas. But the modern painter whom Poiret most resembles, in his love of the exotic, his brilliant use of color and pattern and his penchant for simplified, almost rudimentary form, is Matisse. This rare exhibition -- from the Met's Costume Institute -- does his sartorial genius justice with a spare installation rendered radiant by hand-painted silk backdrops of the leafy parks and luxurious drawing rooms of Paris. (See above.) (Smith) * El Museo del Barrio: 'The Disappeared (Los Desaparecidos),' through June 17. The most potent show of contemporary political art of the season, and one of the most moving shows of any kind in the city right now. The title refers to a peculiarly chilling form of violence associated with political upheavals in Latin America over the past 40 years, and now becoming more common in Iraq. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo .org. (Cotter) MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'Richard Serra Sculpture: 40 Years,' through Sept. 10. This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in work he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Kimmelman) THE NATIONAL ACADEMY: '182ND ANNUAL: AN EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY ART,' through July 24. The National Academy has mounted annual exhibitions showcasing living American artists (as opposed to dead Europeans) since it was founded in 1826. The annuals now alternate between invitationals, including nonmembers, and years devoted to academicians, professional artists elected by their peers to be members of the National Academy. This is a members-only year, which means that the work is more conservative -- or ''traditional,'' if you like. Heavily weighted toward painting, the exhibition includes lots of heirs to Abstract Expressionism and scores of competent figurative paintings and Expressionist- and Impressionist-inspired still lifes and landscapes. Among the participants are Philip Pearlstein, William Bailey, Will Barnet, Melvin Edwards, Sylvia Plimack Mangold, Richard Estes and Lois Dodd. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Schwendener) WHITNEY MUSEUM AT ALTRIA: Matthew Brannon, 'Where Were We,' through Aug. 26. Matthew Brannon brings together art, poetry and advertising in a series of letterpress prints that hark back to 1950s and 1960s textile designs by Astrid Sampe and Marimekko. Texts written by the artist and accompanying the images read like song lyrics crossed with Conceptual Art and Language Poetry (which emphasized experimentalism and reader interaction). Consumption and excess are frequent references, as well as how art, design and fashion feed these modern yet primordial urges and desires. 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453, whitney.org. (Schwendener) * Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Summer of Love: Art of the PsychedElic Era,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save, some would say, its soul. (See above.) (Cotter) Galleries: Uptown 'CONCEPTUAL PHOTOGRAPHY: 1964-1989' By now some of the freewheeling, sometimes prankish specimens of photography styled Conceptual, rampant in the '60s and '70s, have become classics, as this wide-ranging show proves. The more than 35 projects on view, drawn from a private collection, include works by many of the usual suspects: Vito Acconci, Bruce Nauman, Giuseppe Penone, John Baldessari and Charles Ray. Among those on display here that have stood the test of time are Nauman's witty explorations of his body, like ''Self-Portrait as Fountain'' (1966); Ray's ''Plank Piece I, II'' (1973), in which he helps a board make sculpture of his body; and Penone's ''To Reverse One's Eyes'' (1970), embellishing his sight through lenses made of mirrors. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677, through June 23. (Glueck) 'CROSSCURRENTS: DURER TO PICASSO' A show of prints and drawings that makes imaginative pairings of older works with those of 20th-century artists who are sometimes cued by their contemporaries as well as their ancestors. The evidence is keen in, for example, Hieronymus Bosch's ''Temptation of St. Anthony'' (1561), a fervidly drawn scene of grotesque beings and fantastic doings placed near two later Surrealist renditions: a biomorphic figment by Andre Masson, ''The Genius of the Species'' (1942), and Salvador Dali's etching ''Landscape in the Manner of Arcimboldo'' (1934), a biomorphic-geometric vision. A beguiling show. David Tunick, 19 East 66th Street, (212) 570-0090, through June 15. (Glueck) 'SUBLIME CONVERGENCE: GOTHIC TO THE ABSTRACT' This gathering of old master and contemporary paintings reminds us how the art of the past can resonate with that of the present. The emphasis is on the spiritual, with objects by a number of medieval gold-ground painters -- who covered panels with gold leaf to form a radiant background for their imagery -- dramatically displayed along with more recent art of a meditative nature. (Gregorian chant plays softly in the background.) One salient example is Taddeo di Bartolo's ''St. Francis of Assisi'' (about 1395), with its simple Gothic niche as background for the saint in his nuanced bluish-gray robe, accompanied by Brice Marden's ''Number 1'' (1963), another Minimalist composition of four gridded rectangles, each bluntly painted in a shade of gray, that seems to reflect the intensity of the earlier picture. Comparisons like this can go awry, but for the most part this show works. Richard L. Feigen & Company, 34 East 69th Street, (212) 628-0700, through June 15. (Glueck) Galleries: 57th Street * PICASSO, BRAQUE AND EARLY FILM IN CUBISM Cubism and the first moving pictures emerged in the same decade. Coincidence? This thrilling exhibition doesn't think so. A dense display of major paintings, collages and prints; antique cameras and projectors; and snippets of film that Braque and Picasso are thought to have seen, it examines Cubism in the dim light and flickering images of the movie theater. It is radically reorienting to consider Cubism's fractured, revolving forms and transparencies as partly influenced by moving pictures. A few of the pictures even resemble movie cameras. Weirdest of all? Thinking of Analytical Cubism's pale, gleaming dabs of paint as dust motes caught in the projector's beam. PaceWildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, through June 23. (Smith) Marc Quinn: 'Sphinx' This amusing, if somewhat disturbing, show presents Kate Moss as equal parts classical Greek sculpture, yoga devotee and SuperModel. It strikes a particularly contemporary chord in the way it addresses contemporary society's obsession with looking good and its confusion about how to get the inside (feelings, spirit, thoughts) to match the outside. Mary Boone Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 752-2929, through June 30. (Bridget L. Goodbody) Galleries: SoHo TINA BARNEY: CHINA VISIT Tina Barney's last series of photographs featured a nearly extinct species, the European aristocracy, while her new works look to China. Most of the photographs feature members of the creative class, from actors and dancers to a jingle composer, although several juxtapose the ''old'' China with the ''new,'' Westernized version, seen through the filter of opera performers or female golf caddies posed against an urban backdrop. These are more posed and less intimate than Ms. Barney's photographs of her own upper-crust East Coast tribe, which made her famous in the 1980s. But the implications of this project are obvious, with China's growing position on the world's political and economic stages. Janet Borden, 560 Broadway, between Prince and Spring Streets, SoHo, (212) 431-0166, www.janetbordeninc.com; through June 16. (Schwendener) Galleries: Other * MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: PREIS bilder Seven canvases from two series of paintings rarely exhibited in this country play on the double German meaning of preis (price and prize), some variation of which appears on each surface. They show this famous bad-boy sculptor conveying his usual sarcasm in surprisingly beautiful terms that couldn't get much flatter. Hard-edged and brushy techniques contrast the main tactics of formalist painting while converting the Modernist grid into designs redolent of drapery and checked tablecloths. A preponderance of hot pink argues for the pleasure principle. 1018 Art, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 537-0453, www.1018art.net, through July 27. (Smith) Last Chance JOAQUIN TORRES-GARCIA: 'paintings and drawings, 1920-1942' This choice exhibition concentrates on small, lively ink drawings from the early 1930s, when Torres-Garcia ironed out Cubism into a compartmentalized grid that could either be abstract -- like Mondrian's work -- or a container for assorted symbols and hieroglyphs. Two earlier paintings underscore that, either way, his inspiration came from combined order and disorder of bustling city views. CDS Gallery, 76 East 79th Street, (212) 772-9555; closes tomorrow. (Smith) Museum of modern art: 'COMIC ABSTRACTION: IMAGE-BREAKING, IMAGE-MAKING,' . This unimaginative and uniformed treatment of a big idea -- the healthy and essential contamination of Modernist abstraction by popular culture -- should be seen if only because it is such a dispiriting symptom of the Modern's paralysis where contemporary art is concerned. Including 30 works by 13 artists from the last 16 years, it alternates between the literal and the arbitrary and favors sincere political intent over genuine artistic quality. Although it promises work that addresses ''perplexing questions,'' nearly everything here is perfectly pleasant and innocuous. The exceptions are provided by Gary Simmons, Ellen Gallagher and Sue Williams. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Smith) YAYOI KUSAMA: FROM HERE TO INFINITY Spanning 50 years, this 24-piece overview is notable for its high quality and for unfamiliar works that sharpen the understanding of this artist's protean talent, among them several small, pungently colored folk-arty paintings that deploy her signature (and obsessive) webs, dots and scale patterns as effectively as her more abstract works do. Barbara Mathes Gallery, 22 East 80th Street, (212) 570-4190; closes today. (Smith) MARGUERITE ZORACH: A LIFE IN ART The first solo show in more than 30 years of a pioneer of European modernism in America contains 35 paintings -- landscapes, portraits and still lifes -- ranging in date from 1910 to the mid-1960s. They're not all equally good, but they all have a quality of grit, intelligence and striving that never falters. The next show should also include her textiles and works on paper. Gerald Peters Gallery, 24 East 78th Street, (212) 628-9760, www.gpgallery.com; closes today. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A pop music entry in the Listings pages of Weekend yesterday about an upcoming Neville Brothers concert at the Prospect Park Bandshell in Brooklyn misstated the time. The concert will be at 8 p.m. on Thursday -- not at 5:30, which is the time for a pre-concert gala.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- The Pascal Rioult Dance Theater performs ''If by Chance,'' above, and other works next week at the Joyce Theater. Page 27. (Photo by Steven Schreiber)
ART -- ''Video Disque 2: YOR,'' right, is part of an exhibition of art from the psychedelic era at the Whitney Museum of American Art. Page 27. (Photo by Peter Sedgley)
 POP -- Jill Scott, below, sings at Radio City on Wednesday and Thursday. Her fellow performers include Robin Thicke and Chaka Khan. Page 26. (Photo by Karl Walter/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); MUSIC (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); KOREAN WAR (71%); WRITERS (71%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



138 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Spending in May a Relief to Some Retailers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Americans shopped hesitantly in May, giving retailers some relief from a dismal showing in April but still raising questions about how strong consumer spending would be in the months ahead.
 As the nation's merchants reported results yesterday, the disappointments included Wal-Mart Stores, Macy's and Abercrombie & Fitch. Costco Wholesale, Kohl's and luxury retailers like Saks beat expectations.
''It wasn't a blowout, but the gains were a solid snap back,'' said Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics, a research company in Swampscott, Mass. Still, Mr. Perkins and other analysts said that the performance reflected a slowing consumer spending trend. 
 ''It's a slowing trend that we have been seeing since February,'' said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. From February through May, the index averaged a 2.2 percent same-store sales gain, compared with the 4.1 percent average in the comparable period a year ago.
 Analysts are closely monitoring sales in June, the second most important month on the retail calendar behind December. But most analysts believe the modest spending pace will continue.
 The mixed performance in May followed one of the worst sales slumps ever for the retail industry. While one-time factors like an early Easter and rainy weather hurt sales in April, business was so bad it fed worries that higher gasoline prices and a weaker housing market were eating away at consumer spending.
 In May, same-store sales rose 2.5 percent, down from 4.5 percent a year earlier but a sharp improvement from the 1.9 percent drop in April. The sales in May benefited from warmer weather and the Memorial Day shopping weekend, which was not included in the results a year earlier. 
 Wal-Mart had a 1.1 percent same-store sales gain, below the 1.4 percent predicted by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. The figure excluded fuel sales; including fuel, same-store sales rose 1.3 percent.
 Wal-Mart, which reported a 3.5 percent drop in same-store sales in April, its worst performance on record, continues to struggle with its apparel and home businesses. Store executives said yesterday that those categories should see big improvements in the fourth quarter.
 The company said it expects same-store sales in June to range from unchanged to up 2 percent.
 Its rival, Target, whose cheap but stylish merchandise appeals to a broader shopper base beyond the lower-income customer, had a 5.8 percent gain in same-store sales, just below the 5.9 percent estimate.
 Costco had a 7 percent increase in May same-store sales. Analysts expected 5.6 percent.
 Among moderate-price department stores, J. C. Penney posted a 2 percent decline in same-store sales in its department store business, worse than the 0.3 percent gain analysts had expected.
 Macy's continued to struggle with the transition of former branches of May Department Stores to the Macy's brand. The company said same-store sales fell 3.3 percent, missing its own expectations and the 1 percent forecast by analysts.
 ''While we were disappointed with sales in the month of May, the increased promotional marketing support currently being implemented for the Macy's brand is expected to improve sales trends in June and July,'' Terry J. Lundgren, the chief executive of Federated Department Stores, the parent company of Macy's, said in a statement.
 Kohl's reported a 10.5 percent gain in same-store sales, beating the 6.2 percent estimate.
 Upscale stores shined. Saks, which operates Saks Fifth Avenue, reported a 37.5 percent gain in same-store sales, better than the 13.9 percent estimated by analysts. Saks said May's results benefited from a shift in the promotional calendar, a move that will hurt June results.
 Nordstrom had a 6.3 percent same-store gain, better than the 2.6 percent estimate.
 Gap Inc. continued to languish, posting a 3 percent decline in same-store sales, although results were better than the 4.4 percent drop Wall Street had expected.
 Limited had a 2 percent same-store gain, much better than the 1.6 percent decline forecast by analysts.
 Among retailers focused on younger shoppers, Abercrombie & Fitch posted a 5 percent drop in same-store sales, worse than the 1.2 percent forecast. 


	TOTAL SALES,		CHANGE IN	COMPANIES*	IN BILLIONS 	CHANGE	SAME-STORE SALES	Wal-Mart 4 weeks to June 1	$21.6	+5.4%	+1.1	Costco 4 weeks to June 3	5.1	+11.0	+7.0	Target	4.3	+10.1	+5.8	Macy's	2.0	-2.3	-3.3	J.C. Penney	1.2	+0.3	-2.0	TJX	1.4	+9.0	+5.0	The Gap	1.2	+2.0	-3.0	Kohl's	1.2	+18.5	+10.5	Limited Brands	0.8	+7.7	+2.0	Nordstrom	0.6	+6.1	+6.3	Saks	0.2	+39.4	+37.5	 (Source by Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judy Sved of Pittsburgh shopping at the Galleria in Mount Lebanon, Pa., last month. Consumer spending in May rebounded slightly in what an analyst said ''wasn't a blowout, but the gains were a solid snap back.'' (Photo by Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press) Chart: ''Retail Sales in May'' Graph shows the GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX Year-to-year changes based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. SALES Results are for the four weeks ended June 2, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); TRENDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EASTER SEASON (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (73%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); COST (NASDAQ) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



139 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Initial Jobless Claims Decline Slightly

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7 

 BODY:
Fewer workers signed up for unemployment benefits last week, and inventories at wholesalers picked up in April.
 The numbers of workers signing up for first-time unemployment benefits slipped by 1,000, to a seasonally adjusted 309,000 for the week ended last Saturday, the Labor Department reported Thursday. 
''The core story here, though, remains that companies are not laying people off at the sort of pace that would normally be expected given the slowdown in economic growth,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. ''We are very curious to see if this can persist as consumption slows markedly in the face of the surge in gas prices.'' 
 The four-week moving average of jobless claims, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations in this data, moved up to 307,250, from 304,500.
 A separate Commerce Department report showed inventories at wholesalers rising 0.3 percent in April as stocks of nondurable goods posted the biggest percentage increase in five months.
 The inventories-to-sales ratio, a measure of how quickly stocks would be depleted at the current sales pace, fell for the fourth straight month, dropping to 1.12 months from 1.13 months in March, according to the Commerce Department data.
 ''The decline in the wholesale inventory-sales ratio to a record low level supports our view that inventory levels are inadequate and inventory accumulation going forward is likely to support growth,'' economists at Bear Stearns wrote in a report shortly after release of the Commerce Department data.
 In another report, the Federal Reserve said that the net wealth of households rose at a slower rate, to $56.18 trillion, in the first quarter of 2007, while domestic debt growth also slowed. 
 In its quarterly ''Flow of Funds'' report, the central bank said that household wealth rose by about $590 billion, or 1.1 percent, in the first quarter from a revised $55.59 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 Household net worth had increased by $1.31 trillion, or 2.4 percent, in the fourth quarter, according to the Fed report.
 Household debt rose by 6.0 percent in the first quarter of 2007, slowing from a 7.2 percent rise in the final quarter of 2006. In Japan, Key Index Rises 
 TOKYO, Friday, June 8 (Reuters) -- Japan's core private-sector machinery orders, a crucial gauge of corporate capital spending, rose 2.2 percent in April from the previous month, government data showed on Friday.
 That compared with economists' consensus forecast for a 4.5 percent increase, after a 4.5 percent decline in March, the Cabinet Office said.
 Compared with a year earlier, core orders, which exclude those for ships and machinery at electric power firms, fell 9.0 percent, against a median forecast for a 7.1 percent decline.
 The Cabinet Office said in March that core orders, a highly volatile series regarded as an indicator of capital spending in the next six to nine months, were expected to fall 11.8 percent in the second quarter from the previous period. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Borrowing'' Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. Annual pace of change April: +1.3 % March: +7.0 Feb.: +2.8 (Source by Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); INVENTORIES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



140 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: In Napa, Wilderness Above the Wineries

BYLINE: By KERMIT PATTISON

 BODY:
AFTER hours of tromping through the hills of Napa County, beneath towering redwoods, over mountain creeks, past ruins of 19th-century homesteads, there still wasn't a single grape to be seen. 
 Finally, from the top of a mountain peak, there was the wine country at last. Grids of green vineyards stretched for miles. Far below, perched on a hilltop, stood a white stucco winery that seemed small as a matchbox.
From the highway, Napa seems to be wall-to-wall vineyards. But from the trails that snake through the hills of the county, you can see just how little of it is actually covered in vines -- only about 9 percent.
 I had detoured into the hills to appreciate the Napa terroir in a new way -- by hiking it. Napa offers a rare pairing of wine and wilderness. The climate and topography that make the region so ripe for viticulture also have created misty forests, petrified trees, striking rock formations and peaks with sweeping views of the vineyards. 
 ''The hiking in Napa Valley is phenomenal,'' said Ken Stanton, author of the guidebook ''Great Day Hikes In and Around Napa Valley.'' ''There are places that still look like they did a hundred years ago.''
 Better yet, hiking Napa means you don't have to sleep in a tent. Several excellent hikes lie within a short drive of the valley's renowned bed-and-breakfasts, restaurants and wineries. You can easily design an itinerary that captures the duality of Napa: a series of day hikes in the hills fueled by nights of food and wine on the valley floor. 
 A good place to begin is in the heart of wine country, at Bothe-Napa Valley State Park, five miles north of the craftsman homes and Victorian mansions of St. Helena.
 In the woods of Bothe, you can imagine Napa as the early settlers might have seen it. The park nestles against the western slope of the valley, where some of Napa's oldest wineries, like Beringer and Schramsberg, dug their first wine caves in the 1800s. 
 Development and vineyards are slowly claiming more of Napa's acreage, but in Bothe that process has been reversed, and wilderness has reclaimed the land. 
 In the brush beside a trail stands an old stone wall, perhaps a relic of a former vineyard. A one-mile hike on the state park's history trail passes a pioneer cemetery, the site of Napa Valley's first Methodist church, and ends at the Bale Grist Mill, built in 1846. At the mill, the overshot water wheel and millstones still grind corn and wheat. 
 Bothe is one of the few places in the valley to see redwoods. These great trees covered much of Northern California until they were decimated by logging after the Gold Rush. Bothe's redwoods sprouted after the area was logged in the 1850s, yet even these second-growth trees inspire awe.
 THE forest was shrouded in cool mist as I hiked beside a bubbling creek. A great blue heron took off from the rocky bottom and flew upstream, maneuvering its great wingspan through the twisting ravine. (On a previous visit, a pair of deer dashed across my path.) 
 After a two-mile walk to Coyote Peak, a break in the trees revealed a dazzling view of the vineyards from 1,170 feet. The roads below were crowded with weekend traffic, but the summit was silent except for the wind whooshing through the treetops and the faint rumble of the occasional wine tanker truck passing far below.
 In the distance, the wooded slopes of the Coastal Range faded into the horizon, one ridge after another, in ever duller shades of green. At the head of the valley loomed Mount St. Helena, at 4,343 feet one of the tallest peaks in the Bay Area, shrouded in clouds like the Mount Olympus of the land of Bacchus.
 Luckily, the comforts of the valley floor are never far away. A five-minute drive south of the park takes you to the California campus of the Culinary Institute of America, on the edge of St. Helena. When I visited, a chef in a white toque prepared sopa de ajo inside a demonstration kitchen, and the bakery case brimmed with goodies baked by pastry students. In Napa, no hiker should have to subsist on trail mix.
 Before Napa became famous for wine, its economy depended on another natural resource: mining. In the late 19th century, cinnabar (the ore used to make mercury), gold and silver mines dotted the mountainsides of the upper valley. Today, the old wagon roads now form some of the region's best hiking trails. 
 In 1880, Robert Louis Stevenson and his bride, Fanny, honeymooned in an abandoned bunkhouse at the Silverado mine on the slopes of Mount St. Helena. They'd gone there to flee the fogs of San Francisco, which were thought harmful to the writer's sickly and perhaps tubercular lungs.
 ''The woods sang aloud, and gave largely of their healthful breath,'' Stevenson wrote of his first ascent up the mountain. ''Gladness seemed to inhabit these upper zones, and we had left indifference behind us in the valley. There are days in a life when thus to climb out of the lowlands seems like scaling heaven.''
 Or maybe it was just the wine.
 The bunkhouse is long gone, but the site is part of Robert Louis Stevenson State Park. Dappled sunlight filters through the trees, and the cool mountain air smells of pine, just as Stevenson described it more than a century before. 
 The next hike began near Stevenson's former honeymoon cabin at the Highway 29 trailhead. Mr. Stanton calls this 11-mile trek from the slopes of Mount St. Helena down to Calistoga ''the premier hike in Napa Valley'' because of its varied terrain and spectacular views.
 The trail winds through two miles of forests and chaparral to Table Rock, a massive overlook with a condor's-eye view of the upper valley from 2,465 feet. From the valley floor, I'd looked up at mountain mansions that seemed to occupy the super-rich stratosphere; now I looked down on their tiny rooftops.
 A short distance away stood the T-Rex rock, a formation named for its resemblance to the dinosaur and a reminder of the valley's prehistoric origins. Millions of years ago, volcanic eruptions buried the land in lava and ash. (Visitors can appreciate the power of these cataclysms with a short hike through the petrified forest near Calistoga, where trees toppled by violent blasts were buried in ash and turned to stone.)
 Contrary to popular myth, however, these mountains are not extinct volcanoes. Rather, Napa's two ranges -- the Vaca on the east and Mayacamas on the west -- were thrust upward by the plate tectonics in what some geologists liken to gigantic freeway pileups of volcanic and marine rocks. This diversity of soils, along with microclimates created by the terrain, is reflected in the distinctiveness of Napa's wines.
 The trail from the slopes of Mount St. Helena continues below one of the most stunning relics of this geologic history: the Palisades, a rampart-like volcanic formation high above Calistoga. 
 Peregrine falcons nested in the craggy heights, and raptors soared on the thermals. The trail wound through dewy meadows dotted with wildflowers, mossy groves fed by mountain springs and hillsides strewn with boulders. 
 The hike passes the ruins of a homestead built in 1898 by a Swedish sailor. Only foundation stones remain, shaded by oaks, and they make fine picnic benches. Across a meadow, one small part of the homesteader's dream survived: a few of his apple trees were blossoming with spring flowers. 
 The footprints of history are also visible on the Historic Oat Hill Mine Road, which descends from the homestead five miles to Calistoga. The old path once served one of the world's largest mercury mines, and the rocky surface still bears the ruts of wagon wheels. 
 Of course, there are less strenuous ways to enjoy the views. After the hike, my wife and I dined on the deck of the Auberge du Soleil resort on the eastern slopes above Rutherford. We sipped a local cabernet and watched the sun sink over the mountains to the west. In those distant peaks awaited the most spectacular vistas of all.
 Sugarloaf Ridge State Park straddles the mountains between Napa and Sonoma. As a hawk flies, it lies only four miles from St. Helena. But the journey, like fine wine, can't be rushed. By car, it's 25 miles.
 The highest point at the Sugarloaf Ridge park is the 2,729-foot Bald Mountain. If the climb didn't take my breath away, the view from the windswept summit did. 
 To the east, the vineyards of Napa Valley spread out in panoramic view. Huge wine tanks appeared small as grape seeds. A plane buzzed over St. Helena just below eye level. To the south, more than 40 miles away, the skyscrapers of San Francisco and the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge poked through the fog. To the west lay the vineyards of Sonoma Valley, Santa Rosa and the Pacific Ocean. 
 A steady stream of hikers trudged up to the peak and stopped to admire the views. ''It's amazing,'' said Joanne Thompson, a tourist from the Boston area, as she stood on the peak. ''You can see 360 degrees.'' 
 You could drink in the entire wine country in one gulp. I spent an hour on the summit before reluctantly returning. 
 Of course, I had one consolation: that night I'd be sipping the fruits of these valleys once again. HIGH AND DRY Non-Wine Trails 
 THREE California state parks offer nondrinking ways to experience the Napa Valley. Information on all three is available at www.parks.ca.gov. BOTHE-NAPA VALLEY STATE PARK 
 This 2,000-acre park has about 10 miles of trails shaded by forests of redwood, Douglas fir, oak and madrone. Horseback riding and camping are permitted. 
 Directions: 3801 St. Helena Highway North, Calistoga. The park is on Highway 29, five miles north of St. Helena. ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON STATE PARK 
 At this 5,272-acre park, shade is limited and some areas are hot in summer. No restrooms or camping.
 The Mount St. Helena Trail (5.3 miles, 2,100-foot elevation gain) follows a fire road to the summit. Table Rock Trail (2.2 miles, moderate difficulty) winds though forests and chaparral to a scenic overlook. It connects to Palisades Trail (four miles, moderately strenuous), which connects to Oat Hill Mine Road (4.5 miles, moderate). Hikers also can access Oat Hill Mine Road from a trailhead at Highway 29 and Silverado Trail in Calistoga. 
 Directions: Robert Louis Stevenson State Park is seven miles north of Calistoga on Highway 29. Look for trailheads on both sides of the road at highest part of the highway.
 Information for both parks: (707) 942-4575.
 SUGARLOAF RIDGE STATE PARK 
 In this 2,820-acre park, camping and horseback riding are permitted. 
 There are about 25 miles of trails. The hike to summit of Bald Mountain is 2.8 miles and moderately strenuous.
 Directions: End of Adobe Canyon Road off Route 12, Kenwood. The park is seven miles southeast of Santa Rosa.
 Information: (707) 833-5712. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: TREE LINE -- Redwoods, Bothe-Napa Valley State Park. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 HIGH TIMES -- Hiking the Table Rock Trail, left, in Robert Louis Stevenson State Park, and resting on Overlook Rock. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F5) Map of California highlighting the Napa Valley. (pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); WINERIES (90%); HIKING (90%); WINE (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); HISTORY (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



141 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Yields on Treasuries Climb Above 5%; Shares Tumble Again

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Not long ago, Wall Street trembled when it looked as if the slowing American economy might be getting worse. But now, anxiety over the potential for higher inflation, driven by a strong global economy, is preoccupying investors. 
 Yesterday, that fear again took its toll on stocks and bonds, giving share prices their steepest three-day decline since markets dropped around the world in February, and the interest rate on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose above 5 percent for the first time since last summer.
The market turmoil of recent days was a stark turnaround from the mood on Wall Street at the start of the week, when both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average hit highs. But as Wall Street all but ruled out the possibility that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates this year, investors swiftly pulled back. 
 ''You went from one extreme to another,'' said Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist for Citigroup. ''People were talking about the Fed having to cut rates; the economy is struggling. And all of a sudden we've swapped to the Fed is going to have to raise rates.''
 This week, cautionary remarks from Fed officials about inflation and signs that labor costs are accelerating reignited concerns that price increases are not yet tame enough to preclude another interest rate increase. As a result, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose yesterday to the highest level since last July. Bonds become a less-attractive investment as uncertainties about inflation increase.
 The unease in the bond market quickly spread to stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day down almost 200 points, or 1.5 percent. The S.& P. 500 index, a wider measure of stock performance, fared worse, losing 1.8 percent of its value. The Nasdaq composite, meanwhile, also fell 1.8 percent.
 Analysts said two factors appeared to be causing the stock sell-off: fears that higher borrowing costs could hurt corporate profits and slow economic growth, and a sense among investors that the recent record climb in share prices had created an opportunity to cash out.
 ''We've got some profit taking,'' said Howard Silverblatt, an index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''And that's good for the market. You just can't keep going up.''
 Despite a dismal last three days, all three major stock indexes are still up more than 5 percent for the year.
 How quickly the stock market stabilizes depends, in part, on how quickly the bond market settles down. And right now, it is not clear whether the sell-off is just a hiccup or something more serious.
 The movement in the bond market has been a reaction to concerns about interest rates both here and overseas. On Wednesday, the European Central Bank raised interest rates a quarter point, to 4 percent -- the eighth increase since December 2005. And yesterday, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand also increased rates a quarter-point, to 8 percent.
 If interest rates on United States Treasury notes lag behind foreign rates, American bonds become less attractive to foreign investors. Yields on the 2-year, 10-year and 30-year securities all closed above 5 percent yesterday.
 Sustained higher yields would lift the cost of borrowing for both companies and consumers, squeezing corporate profits and making home loans more expensive.
 ''I think the bond market is nervous about the direction of two things: U.S. economic growth, as well as long-term inflation expectations,'' said Anton Pil, global head of fixed income at JPMorgan Private Bank. ''It's a gradual renormalization. I don't think we're finished. I think the sell-off is going to continue well into the summer.''
 Investors had more new economic data to mull over yesterday that suggested the job market remained strong, adding another piece to the multiplying body of evidence that a rate cut by the Fed is unlikely soon.
 The Labor Department said that claims for unemployment benefits declined by 1,000, to 309,000, for the week that ended Saturday.
 Still, bond yields have been rising steadily in recent weeks, and some analysts said it was just a matter of time before investors decided to get out. 
 ''What we've finally been seeing here is just a throwing in of the towel, and no longer fighting the rise in yields,'' said John Canavan, a fixed income analyst with Stone & McCarthy, a market research firm in Skillman, N.J.
 Falling bond prices should entice some investors back into the market, he added. ''We've probably flushed out some of the pressure here which will allow Treasuries to stabilize.'' 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February, 2007. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



142 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Patent Ruling Strikes a Blow At Qualcomm

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 7 

 BODY:
Millions of new mobile phones containing certain Qualcomm semiconductors could be barred from import into the United States under a ruling issued Thursday by a federal government agency in a patent dispute.
 Qualcomm said the ruling by the United States International Trade Commission, if it withstands an appeal, could prevent the importation into the United States of tens of millions of new mobile handsets designed for the Verizon, Sprint and AT&T Wireless networks.
The agency ruled that Qualcomm, a semiconductor company based in San Diego, had infringed on a key patent belonging to Broadcom, a competing chip company based in Irvine, Calif., that is used in the design of chips made for advanced 3G, or third-generation, smart cellphones. Qualcomm said that it planned to appeal immediately to the federal court to block the ruling. The company also said that it planned to appeal to President Bush, whose trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, has 60 days within which to veto the ruling. The company said it sought ''to avoid irreparable harm to U.S. consumers'' and injury to the economy. 
 Nancy Stark, a spokeswoman for Verizon Wireless, said that company would ask the White House to void the ruling and the federal appeals court to stay it. ''It's bad for the industry and bad for the wireless consumer,'' she said. ''It's going to freeze innovation.''
 Tim Luke, a telecommunications industry analyst with Lehman Brothers, said that while the I.T.C. ruling is ''big,'' it probably does not mean any disruption in handset supplies. Investors ''will be looking for a settlement between Qualcomm and Broadcom,'' he said, adding that Qualcomm also might be able to find a technological fix so that it does not use the technology covered by the Broadcom patent.
 Qualcomm's ''fundamental business is really strong and they'll have to think of a way to work around this,'' Mr. Luke said.
 The I.T.C. ruled that a patent governing power management in cellphone chips that is held by Broadcom was violated. Broadcom asserts that Qualcomm is using the power management technology without paying licensing royalties.
 ''This is tremendously significant,'' said David Rosmann, vice president of intellectual property litigation for Broadcom. ''Qualcomm is either going to need to take a license or they will not be able the provide the next generation of handsets.''
 The I.T.C. ruling affects only new models of handsets. Under the ruling, Qualcomm would still be permitted to deliver models that already are on the market as of June 7, whether or not they use the patented technology.
 Qualcomm officials said in a conference call with investors late Thursday that it had been negotiating with Broadcom to establish royalty rates. But Qualcomm officials said the rates currently under discussion were so prohibitive that, if met, would undermine Qualcomm's business model.
 Paul E. Jacobs, chief executive of Qualcomm, said the I.T.C. overstepped its statutory authority and the decision had the potential to disrupt the supply of handsets in a way that, he said, could hurt wireless carriers, and consumers.
 The issue ruled on by the I.T.C. is part of a broader dispute between Qualcomm, one of the biggest makers in the world of chips for mobile phones, and Broadcom, which makes chips for many digital devices and is trying to gain more business in the mobile phone market. Last week, Broadcom prevailed in a jury trial in United States District Court in Santa Ana, Calif., in which it claimed Qualcomm had infringed three additional patents. The technology covered in those patents includes methods for transmission of high-speed data over mobile phones.
 Broadcom has also sued Qualcomm over the patent covered in the I.T.C. ruling, but a federal court delayed ruling on the case until the I.T.C. acted. Four commissioners supported the decision, while two others recommended a more limited penalty be imposed on Qualcomm. Their opinions will be made public after both companies remove any confidential business information from them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENT LAW (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); PATENTS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPEALS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); VETO (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%)

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (93%); AT&T INC (91%); QUALCOMM INC (90%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); BROADCOM CORP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



143 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: In One City, Home Sellers Find It Pays to Cut Out Middleman

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
It sounds like the setup for a dull economist's joke. Who gets the better deal: the cautious economist who sells his house through a real estate agent, or his risk-taking colleague who finds a buyer on his own?
 But the question -- debated by two Northwestern University economists who chose different methods to sell their homes -- and the research it helped prompt are serious. And the answer will be of interest to anyone who has paused to consider whether paying a real estate agent's commission, typically 5 to 6 percent of the sale price, is worth it.
The conclusion, in a study to be released today based on home-sales data from 1998 to 2004 in Madison, Wis., is that people in that city who sold their homes through real estate agents typically did not get a higher sale price than people who sold their homes themselves. When the agent's commission is factored in, the for-sale-by-owner people came out ahead financially.
 The study is to be made public on Northwestern's Web site. 
 Madison is home to one of the biggest for-sale-by-owner Web sites in the country. The economists pitted that site against the local multiple listing service operated by real estate agents. 
 There are asterisks. The authors cautioned that they did not know whether the results from Madison applied to the country as a whole; certainly, selling a house without a real estate agent would be harder in a city without a heavily trafficked for-sale-by-owner Web site. The authors are also analyzing Madison data from 2005 and 2006, when the housing market cooled after a long run-up, to see how their findings might have changed. 
 Some aspects tilted in agents' favor. The researchers found that homes on the multiple listing service sold somewhat faster than houses on the for-sale-by-owner site. The study also did not place a value on other services provided by agents in selling a home. 
 The authors have presented their paper at forums at many leading universities, but it has not yet been submitted to a journal for peer review.
 For all its caveats, though, the study is highly unusual in comprehensively measuring the impact on the sale price of a home of hiring, or not hiring, a real estate agent.
 The findings fly in the face of studies by the National Association of Realtors. The group has said that houses sold via its members' local multiple listing services get a 16 percent premium over homes sold by their owners.
 The economists' study is likely to be seen as ammunition for critics and lower-cost competitors who question the need for 5 or 6 percent commissions -- which deliver about $60 billion a year to agents and their employers.
 Homes sold on FSBOMadison.com, the for-sale-by-owner Web site, fetched an average price of $175,068 during the years examined. Those sold on the multiple listing service brought an average price of $173,205, roughly equal when taking into account the study's margin of error. 
 The FSBO (pronounced FIZZ-bo) sales results were adjusted for timing, for house and lot size and characteristics, and for neighborhoods to make them comparable with sales by agents. They were also adjusted for what the researchers came to believe is an extra bit of shrewdness that FSBO sellers possess.
 ''Greater patience, greater bargaining leverage,'' said Francois Ortalo-Magne, an associate professor of real estate and urban land economics at the University of Wisconsin in Madison and one of the three authors of the study.
 His co-authors both joined Northwestern as professors of economics about three years ago and sold homes elsewhere before moving to the Evanston, Ill., campus. 
 Aviv Nevo came from the University of California, Berkeley, and used a real estate agent to sell his house, pocketing a profit from five years of ownership, he said, that may have exceeded his salary for that period as an assistant professor.
 Igal Hendel, three years ahead of Mr. Nevo as a graduate student at Harvard and a collaborator on previous research, moved from the University of Wisconsin and sold his home by advertising it on FSBOMadison.com.
 ''It started by us arguing about who did the right thing,'' Mr. Nevo said. ''Igal said, 'I saved a commission.' I said, yeah, but who knows how much you lost on the price?''
 The National Association of Realtors has been defending its fees. In a 2005 survey of home buyers, it reported that FSBO houses sold for a median price of $198,200 and those sold through an agent went for a median price of $230,000, or 16 percent more. 
 Two-fifths of those FSBO sellers were selling to a friend, relative or neighbor, and that might have led to lower prices, but agent-assisted sellers still enjoyed a huge premium, the association said.
 (Nationally, about 13 percent of home sales were for-sale-by-owner in 2005, the group said. For the seven-year Madison study, the market share of homes sold on the FSBO Web site was 14 percent.)
 And in a March 2003 issue of Realtor Magazine Online, the association, in advising its members how to persuade a seller to switch from a FSBO ad to listing with an agent, said to tell them that a 2002 survey found ''on average, people who sell their homes through a real estate professional receive a price 27 percent higher than people who sell their home themselves.''
 ''So even with my commission, you'll probably come out ahead.''
 Walter Molony, a spokesman for the trade group, said in an interview, ''It's certainly a hell of a lot more than the 5 to 6 percent you're going to pay in a commission.'' 
 Those studies had their own asterisks. The 2005 survey was based on buyers' written responses, rather than actual records of transactions, and included data only from people who chose to reply -- 7,813 responses out of 145,000 questionnaires mailed out.
 The association also did not disclose data on house size, lot size and some other factors that could affect price differences between the sales techniques. The association does not consider that a weakness of the study, though.
 ''When you're looking at this large of a survey, the aggregate numbers smooth those things out,'' Mr. Molony said. ''We feel it's representative.'' 
 Mr. Molony and colleagues at the national association have not seen the Madison research. He said, however, that local markets vary so widely that ''it wouldn't be surprising to see a market where there is no difference between an agent-assisted and FSBO price.''
 The economists studying the Madison market received listing data from both the FSBO site and the Realtors Association of South Central Wisconsin, which operates the local multiple listing service. Those were checked against records at the assessor's office for actual sale prices. The study looked at 15,616 listings from 1998 to 2004.
 Not every Realtor agrees with the national association's strategy of claiming a higher sales price. After all, it may sound great -- to a seller -- that a real estate agent could help get a higher price. But agents typically also represent buyers in such transactions and, obviously, buyers do not want to pay 16 percent more.
 ''We're trying to tell the public that they pay 16 percent more if they use us?'' said an exasperated David K. Stark, owner of the Stark Company, one of Madison's largest real estate firms, when asked about the national association's claims. If that were true, he said, ''all buyers should shop FSBO.''
 Mr. Stark is not worried that every seller will stampede to FSBOMadison.com. ''Most people list with a Realtor because they don't want to hassle with it,'' he said. ''It's complex. There's a lot of drama.''
 Plenty of people agree. Katie Mohr, who manages a stock trading desk for a bank and is moving to Milwaukee, hired one of Madison's busiest agents to sell her five-bedroom house on the city's West Side. The agent, Sherry Lessing, handled everything, and within five weeks the Mohrs got the price they wanted, $560,000. 
 ''I couldn't take the personal interaction of people walking in my house and making nasty comments,'' Mrs. Mohr said. ''I don't want to hear that people didn't like my wallpaper. Six percent was well worth paying for.'' 
 Mrs. Lessing said that price parity between FSBO sales and agent sales is not surprising because buyers can now comparison-shop on the Internet. ''Even the inexperienced buyer can walk into a home and tell if it's overpriced -- based on competition,'' she said. 
 Some buyers think a 6 percent commission -- $33,600 in Mrs. Mohr's case -- is too much. Dr. Harry Sharata, a Madison dermatologist, listed his four-bedroom West Side house on FSBOMadison.com. ''We try to avoid the Realtors as much as possible, thinking we can have more room to negotiate if that fee isn't built into the price,'' he said.
 Dr. Sharata listed the house two weeks ago at $649,000 and received an offer on Wednesday. He would not disclose the amount of the offer. Like many FSBO sellers, Dr. Sharata said he would gladly pay an agent representing the buyer a 3 percent fee, or $19,470 at his asking price, but felt little need for an agent's help in selling.
 ''For the most part, these transactions are straightforward,'' he said. 
 The study found, however, that homes listed with agents sold more quickly -- with a 25 percent probability of selling within 60 days versus a 16 percent probability for FSBO-advertised homes.
 On average, it took FSBO homes 125 days to sell and agent-sold homes 105 days. A faster sale, of course, can save money on mortgage payments, taxes and insurance, the economists noted.
 FSBOMadison.com, the subject of a January 2006 article in The New York Times, charges $150 for an ad on the site and a yard sign. Taking advantage of antiestablishment sentiment in Madison, which has a highly educated and liberal population, it quickly grabbed a market share of roughly 20 percent. That made it among the most successful challengers in the country to real estate agent domination of home sales.
 That scale, along with the cooperation of the site's owners and of the local Realtor group, made the economists' study possible. ''We don't have national data,'' Mr. Nevo, one of the authors, said. ''FSBOMadison is unique.''
 The results, from another perspective, show that with agents failing to bring a higher price, their commission pays only for the actual work they do. ''That was surprising,'' Mr. Nevo said.
 He suspects that sellers will begin to examine more closely the cost of all the small tasks handled by agents. To justify a $12,000 fee on a $200,000 house, he said, ''you'd have to have a very high hourly rate'' for an agent's work.
 Mr. Nevo, who employed an agent to sell his Berkeley house, said that, so far, his FSBO-using colleague Mr. Hendel is winning their argument. ''I probably owe him lunch,'' Mr. Nevo said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Williamson Street in Madison. Their own home-selling experiences led Igal Hendel, left, and Aviv Nevo to study the market. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)
(Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)
Sherry Lessing, a real estate agent, with Mark Schulte at his Middleton, Wis., home. She said the Internet had aided in comparison shopping. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. C7)
 FSBOMadison.com charges $150 for an ad and a yard sign. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. A1) Graph: ''Comparing Lists in the Home Market'' A study by three economists found that homes in Madison, Wis., listed and sold on a for-sale-by-owner site and the local Realtor listing site sold for roughly the same average price from 1998 to 2004. Those sold on FSBOMadison went for $175,068* while those sold by the Realtors' multiple listing service, or MLS, went for $173,205. For-sale-by-owner Web site increases its market share . . . Graph tracks initial home listings since 1998. . . . and over time becomes more effective at selling its listed home . . . Graph tracks home sales initially listed on FSBOMadison.com since 1998. . . . though the traditional Realtor listing service still sells a higher percentage of homes it lists. Graph tracks home sales initially listed on the MLS since 1998. *Adjusted for differences in types of homes, neighborhoods, characteristics of the sellers and the time of sales. All data is for existing single-family homes in Madison, Wis. (Source study by researchers at Northwestern University and University of Wisconsin)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); COMMISSION PAY (89%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); WEB SITES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (87%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



144 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Reviving the Hamilton Agenda

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
These days there seem to be four schools of political economic thought. First, there are the limited government conservatives, who think taxes should be low and the state should be as small as possible. Second, there are the Hamiltonians, who believe in free market capitalism but think government should help people get the tools they need to compete in it.
 Third, there are the mainstream liberals, who think government should intervene in small ways throughout the economy to soften the effects of creative destruction. Fourth, there are the populists, who believe the benefits of the global economy are going to the rich and we need to fundamentally rewrite the rules. 
 If you are reading this column, you're keeping company with somebody in group No. 2. We Hamiltonians disagree with the limited government conservatives because, on its own, the market is failing to supply enough human capital. Despite all the incentives, 30 percent of kids drop out of high school and the college graduation rate has been flat for a generation.
 Just when it needs a more skilled work force, the U.S. is getting a less skilled one. This is already taking a bite out of productivity growth, and the problem will get worse.
 We Hamiltonians disagree with the third group, the mainstream liberals, because their programs haven't worked out. Retraining programs for displaced workers have flopped. Tax code changes to reduce outsourcing are symbolic. Federal jobs programs aren't effective. Moreover, the high taxes you need to pay for these programs sap the economy. There's now a pile of evidence showing that higher taxes mean reduced working hours. In the face of Chinese and Indian competition, we don't need Americans working less.
 We Hamiltonians disagree with the populists because we don't find their storyline persuasive. The populists argue that global trade is creating a race to the bottom that is leading to stagnant wages and vast inequality. But when you look at the details, you find that most inequality is caused by a rising education premium, by changes in household and family structure, by the fact that the rich now work longer hours than the less rich and by new salary structures that are more tied to individual performance. None of this can be addressed by changing global trade rules.
 The global economy radically decreased poverty and increased living standards. It's crazy to upend this complex system to return to some nostalgic vision of a 1950s industrial wonderland.
 When it comes to what Hamiltonians are actually for, two big themes stand out. First, the overall economy has to remain dynamic. The biggest threat is the looming wall of entitlement debt. We Hamiltonians would break the current campaign silence on the issue by raising the retirement age and tackling medical inflation to make Medicare affordable.
 The second big theme is a human capital agenda. No one policy can increase the quality of human capital, but a lifelong portfolio of policies can make a difference.
 Children do better when raised in stable two-parent families. Bigger child tax credits and increasing the earned income tax credit can reduce the economic strain on young families (and shift the tax burden to older, affluent ones). Extending government income support to young men in exchange for work would make them more marriageable.
 Nurse practitioners who make home visits can stabilize disorganized, single-parent families. Quality preschool can help young children from those disorganized homes develop the self-motivation skills they'll need to succeed.
 The most important thing in a school is quality teachers. That means there should be merit pay for the best, and a change in the certification rules (we should allow more people into the profession and weed out the mediocre ones, regardless of their certification).
 Senior citizen groups could mentor students to keep them emotionally engaged during college years. National service should be a rite of passage, forcing city kids to work with rural kids, and vice versa. 
 Middle-aged workers need portable pensions and health insurance so they can move and take risks. The immigration system should reward skills, like the college admissions system. The government should increase funding for basic research, especially in math, engineering and physics. 
 The list could go on. My goal here is merely to describe the different economic policy schools that are out there, and to emphasize my favorite, the one least represented by the current presidential candidates.
 Government is really bad at rigging or softening competition. It can do some good when it helps people compete. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICARE (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



145 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: India, Said to Play Down AIDS, Has Many Fewer With Virus Than Thought, Study Finds

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 7 

 BODY:
India, which has been repeatedly accused of denying the size of its AIDS epidemic, probably has millions fewer victims than has been widely believed, according to a new but still unreleased household survey. 
 The survey was carried out under international supervision with American financing. If it is correct, India is no longer the world's supposed leader -- with 5.7 million people infected with the virus, according to the official United Nations 2006 estimate -- but is again behind South Africa, which is believed to have more accurate survey results and has an estimated 5.5 million cases, and possibly other countries as well.
 Early analysis of the figures suggests that India really has between two and three million victims, according to several sources, including American epidemiologists who know the data and the Health Ministry here. How the rates are calculated has been a subject of debate, with some experts contending that the rates in many places may be exaggerated. 
 ''Everyone transiting through here says, 'This is a pandemic,' '' Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss, India's health minister, said in an interview here. ''But I am very confident that we will not turn into a generalized epidemic.'' 
 The lower figure for India would imply that India has managed to keep its epidemic more like that of the United States, in that the virus circulates mostly within high-risk groups. In India's case, these are prostitutes and their clients -- especially truckers; men who have sex with men; and people who inject drugs, especially in the northeast, on the borders with Myanmar.
 That is exactly what some experts on AIDS surveillance techniques have been arguing for years, saying that Indians do not have the same kind of sexual networks that are common in southern and eastern Africa, in which both men and women often have two or more occasional but regular sexual partners over long periods of time. Also, outside of prostitution, ''transactional sex'' between teenage girls and older men in return for money, food or clothes is much less common in Asia than in Africa.
 James Chin, a professor of epidemiology at the University of California, Berkeley, has made the case that the typical way of estimating AIDS prevalence rates -- sampling the blood of pregnant women who come to urban health clinics and the blood of high-risk groups -- greatly exaggerates national estimates.
 Professor Chin has been vindicated by more recent surveys, paid for by the United States, that take blood samples in randomly chosen households in rural and urban areas. 
 One of those, called the National Family Health Survey, produced India's new figures. 
 Such surveys, country by country, have led the United Nations AIDS program, Unaids, to slowly scale back its world estimates. 
 ''This is a replay of what happened in Kenya,'' said Daniel Halperin, an expert on AIDS infection rates at the Harvard School of Public Health. When Kenya was more carefully surveyed in 2004, he said, its prevalence rate was halved, to 6.7 percent from the 15 percent that Unaids had estimated in 2001. 
 But Dr. Halperin said that AIDS-fighting agencies had such a stake in portraying the epidemic as an approaching Armageddon that they were hesitant to make revisions. 
 India's survey was finished last year, but Avahan, an AIDS group here financed by the Gates Foundation, refused to discuss the figures before their formal release, which has not been scheduled. 
 ''If the total number of cases in the world is half of what you've been saying, that's a bitter pill to swallow,'' Dr. Halperin said. ''So every year they lower the numbers a little bit, and retroactively change the estimates of what it used to be. It's sort of Orwellian.''
 In Africa, infection rates range as high as 30 percent. South Africa's is about 22 percent, and that figure is considered relatively accurate because the epidemic is older than India's and population surveys have been done.
 In recent years, several prominent figures have accused India of denying the scope of its AIDS problem, but Indian health officials dispute their conclusions. 
 Richard Feacham, until recently the executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, said in early 2005, when South Africa was thought to have slightly more cases: ''The official statistics are wrong. India is in first place.'' He warned that India's epidemic could shoot up to African levels, wiping out the surging economy and leaving a nation of orphans. 
 S. Y. Quraishi, then director of India's National AIDS Control Organization, took offense, calling such projections ''technically incorrect and misleading.'' 
 Richard Holbrooke, president of the Global Business Coalition on H.I.V./AIDS, said in a 2006 interview that contentions by Indian leaders that their country would not follow Africa were simply not true and compared their political courage unfavorably to that of China's leaders.
 And in 2002, when Bill Gates visited India to donate $100 million to fighting its epidemic, Satrugan Sinha, then the health minister, accused him of ''spreading panic among the general public'' by suggesting that cases could reach 25 million by 2010. 
 Asked if he felt India was owed any apologies, Dr. Ramadoss said he wanted only ''that the world acknowledge the efforts India is making.''
 He pointed out that it was spending $2 billion to fight the disease and had 75,000 people on free antiretroviral treatment so far, 2,000 centers giving sex education and condoms to sex workers and clients, and 3,600 free testing centers. 
 Indian government workers hand out condoms outside porn theaters, even though pornographic films are illegal. It created a government condom brand called ''Dipper,'' which is word play on the advice painted on the backs of many trucks, ''Use Dipper at Night,'' meaning switch to low-beam lights. 
 ''India is glaringly not in a denial phase,'' Dr. Ramadoss said, adding that he was grateful for the pressure from critics because it had forced the country to move faster. ''We need to work with the Global Fund, not contradict each other.'' 
 Anjali Gopalan, executive director of the Naz Foundation (India) Trust, which runs an orphanage and fights stigmatization of AIDS victims, said she was skeptical of any estimate as low as two million. But whatever the figure turned out to be, she said, ''The infection is here and we have a huge burden,'' adding, ''We are a very sexually active culture, contrary to what the politicians want to project.''
 AIDS still conveys tremendous stigma in India. In recent weeks, newspapers have carried reports of an AIDS patient left on the street outside a hospital to die, of five infected children expelled from school, and of a woman beaten to death by her in-laws who feared she would infect the family. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Wednesday, Indian children in a slum in Mumbai ran past a painting stressing AIDS awareness. A new but still unreleased household survey, financed by the United States, suggests that India probably has millions fewer victims of AIDS than had been widely believed. (Photo by Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); EPIDEMICS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); AIDS & HIV REPORTING (73%); PROSTITUTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); MUMBAI, INDIA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); KENYA (79%); ASIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



146 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: IMMIGRANT BILL, LACKING 15 VOTES, STALLS IN SENATE

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from Midland, Tex.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7 

 BODY:
The sweeping immigration overhaul endorsed by President Bush crumbled in the Senate on Thursday night, leaving the future of one of the administration's chief domestic priorities in serious doubt.
 After a day of tension and fruitless maneuvering, senators rejected a Democratic call to move toward a final vote on the compromise legislation after Republicans complained that they had not been given enough opportunity to reshape the sprawling bill. Supporters of cutting off debate got only 45 of the 60 votes they needed; 50 senators opposed the cutoff.
''We are finished with this for the time being,'' said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, as he turned the Senate to work on energy legislation. 
 Mr. Reid did, however, leave the door open to revisiting the immigration issue later this year and said he would continue to explore ways to advance a plan. ''We all have to work, the president included, to find a way to get this bill passed,'' he said. 
 The outcome, which followed an outpouring of criticism of the measure from core Republican voters and from liberal Democrats as well, was a significant setback for the president. It came mainly at the hands of members of his own party after he championed the proposal in the hope of claiming it as a major domestic policy achievement in the last months of his administration.
 The collapse of the measure came as Mr. Bush was in Europe for an international economic summit, and it was not immediately clear how hard he would fight to resurrect the bill upon his return next week.
 Scott Stanzel, a White House spokesman, said the White House still held hope that a bill could be passed.
 ''We are encouraged that the leadership of both parties in the United States Senate indicated that they would bring this legislation back up for consideration,'' Mr. Stanzel said. ''And we will continue to work with members of the United States Senate to make sure this process moves forward.''
 The defeat was also crushing for a bipartisan group of about a dozen senators who met privately for three months to broker a compromise that tried to balance a call for stricter border enforcement with a way for many of the 12 million people who are illegally in the country to qualify for citizenship eventually.
 ''The vote was obviously a big disappointment, but it makes no sense to fold our tent, and I certainly don't intend to,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a chief author of the bill. ''Doing nothing is totally unacceptable''
 Other proponents said they still saw life in the legislation despite the blow in the Senate.
 ''This matter is on life support, but it is not dead,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and another central architect of the plan. 
 Senate conservatives fought the legislation from the start, saying it rewarded those who broke the law by entering the country illegally. After winning a few important changes in the measure, Republican critics demanded more time and drew support for their calls for more opportunity to fight it out on the Senate floor.
 ''I simply do not understand why some of my colleagues want to jam this legislation through the Congress without a serious and thorough examination of its consequences,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.
 Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican who was another leading opponent, said he believed lawmakers responded to constituent complaints about the flaws in the measure ''I was not going to support a piece of legislation that will not work,'' Mr. Sessions said.
 Mr. Reid said the critics were simply stalling and would never be satisfied. Noting the Senate had considered more than 40 amendments and held 28 roll call votes, he attributed the failure of the bill to Republican recalcitrance.
 In the end, 38 Republicans, 11 Democrats and one independent voted not to shut off debate; 37 Democrats, 7 Republicans and one independent voted to bring the issue to a head.
 Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said he believed Republicans would have eventually relented had they been given more time to work out an agreement on what amendments would be considered. ''I think we are giving up on this bill too soon,'' Mr. McConnell said.
 The vote was the second attempt of the day to cut off a debate that had gone on for nearly two weeks, interrupted by the Memorial Day recess. On the initial showdown in the morning, the Senate fell 27 votes short of the 60 required; every Republican and 15 Democrats opposed the move.
 The morning vote sent Senate leaders and backers of the legislation scrambling, trying to reach an agreement to salvage the measure with the help of administration officials. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff was also consulted by phone.
 The progress of negotiations was uncertain throughout the day. As late as 6:30 p.m., Mr. Kennedy was still uncertain where many senators stood on the call to force an end to the debate. ''It's touch and go,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''It's extremely close at this time. Republicans have held their cards.''
 The compromise legislation was announced on May 17 by authors who hailed it as a ''grand bargain.'' It held together through much of the debate because the negotiators -- embodied on the right by Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a Republican, and on the left by Mr. Kennedy -- agreed to block proposals they thought would sink the measure. That led to such odd moments as when Mr. Kyl on Wednesday opposed an amendment he had helped write for last year's unsuccessful immigration measure.
 But the legislation began running into problems late Wednesday night and early Thursday morning as the Senate approved a Democratic proposal to limit a guest-worker program sought by business interests and backed by Republicans. Backers of the bill hoped to reverse that result if the measure moved forward.
 ''It is indispensable to have a guest-worker program to take care of the needs of the economy,'' said Mr. Specter. ''If we don't, we will just encounter more people coming over illegally.''
 At the same time, some Democrats were growing increasingly uneasy.
 Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said the bill had become ''more punitive and more onerous'' because of amendments adopted in the last few days. Mr. Menendez pointed, for example, to one that denied the earned-income tax credit to illegal immigrants who gain legal status under the bill.
 Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, the Hispanic rights group, said she had similar concerns. Changes approved by the Senate this week make the bill ''not only more punitive, but also less workable,'' Ms. Munoz said.
 Trying to bolster Democratic support, the Service Employees International Union urged senators Thursday to vote for a limit to the debate. In a letter to the Senate, Anna Burger, secretary-treasurer of the union, listed many serious objections to the bill, but said, ''The time to move forward is now.''
 The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a coalition of civil rights groups, also backed cloture, saying, ''A small handful of immigration restrictionists' in the Senate should not be allowed to prolong the debate indefinitely.''
 In addition to the limit on the guest worker program, supporters of the bill said they would also try to change an amendment that gives law enforcement and intelligence agencies access to certain information in unsuccessful applications filed by illegal immigrants seeking legal status. Despite the strong Republican vote against ending debate, party leaders said throughout the day they wanted to reach some accommodation. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the No. 2 Republican, urged his colleagues to stiffen their spines and try to resolve one of the nation's most pressing problems.
 ''Are we men and women or mice?'' Mr. Lott asked. ''Are we going to slither away from this issue and hope for some epiphany to happen? No. Let's legislate. Let's vote.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a news conference yesterday, seated from left, Senators Charles E. Schumer
Harry Reid, majority leader
Richard J. Durbin
 and Patty Murray. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (60%); ENERGY REGULATION (54%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (88%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



147 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Lies, Sighs And Politics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In Tuesday's Republican presidential debate, Mitt Romney completely misrepresented how we ended up in Iraq. Later, Mike Huckabee mistakenly claimed that it was Ronald Reagan's birthday. 
 Guess which remark The Washington Post identified as the ''gaffe of the night''?
Folks, this is serious. If early campaign reporting is any guide, the bad media habits that helped install the worst president ever in the White House haven't changed a bit. 
 You may not remember the presidential debate of Oct. 3, 2000, or how it was covered, but you should. It was one of the worst moments in an election marked by news media failure as serious, in its way, as the later failure to question Bush administration claims about Iraq. 
 Throughout that debate, George W. Bush made blatantly misleading statements, including some outright lies -- for example, when he declared of his tax cut that ''the vast majority of the help goes to the people at the bottom end of the economic ladder.'' That should have told us, right then and there, that he was not a man to be trusted.
 But few news reports pointed out the lie. Instead, many news analysts chose to critique the candidates' acting skills. Al Gore was declared the loser because he sighed and rolled his eyes -- failing to conceal his justified disgust at Mr. Bush's dishonesty. And that's how Mr. Bush got within chad-and-butterfly range of the presidency.
 Now fast forward to last Tuesday. Asked whether we should have invaded Iraq, Mr. Romney said that war could only have been avoided if Saddam ''had opened up his country to I.A.E.A. inspectors, and they'd come in and they'd found that there were no weapons of mass destruction.'' He dismissed this as an ''unreasonable hypothetical.''
 Except that Saddam did, in fact, allow inspectors in. Remember Hans Blix? When those inspectors failed to find nonexistent W.M.D., Mr. Bush ordered them out so that he could invade. Mr. Romney's remark should have been the central story in news reports about Tuesday's debate. But it wasn't. 
 There wasn't anything comparable to Mr. Romney's rewritten history in the Democratic debate two days earlier, which was altogether on a higher plane. Still, someone should have called Hillary Clinton on her declaration that on health care, ''we're all talking pretty much about the same things.'' While the other two leading candidates have come out with plans for universal (John Edwards) or near-universal (Barack Obama) health coverage, Mrs. Clinton has so far evaded the issue. But again, this went unmentioned in most reports.
 By the way, one reason I want health care specifics from Mrs. Clinton is that she's received large contributions from the pharmaceutical and insurance industries. Will that deter her from taking those industries on?
 Back to the debate coverage: as far as I can tell, no major news organization did any fact-checking of either debate. And post-debate analyses tended to be horse-race stuff mingled with theater criticism: assessments not of what the candidates said, but of how they ''came across.'' 
 Thus most analysts declared Mrs. Clinton the winner in her debate, because she did the best job of delivering sound bites -- including her Bush-talking-point declaration that we're safer now than we were on 9/11, a claim her advisers later tried to explain away as not meaning what it seemed to mean. 
 Similarly, many analysts gave the G.O.P. debate to Rudy Giuliani not because he made sense -- he didn't -- but because he sounded tough saying things like, ''It's unthinkable that you would leave Saddam Hussein in charge of Iraq and be able to fight the war on terror.'' (Why?)
 Look, debates involving 10 people are, inevitably, short on extended discussion. But news organizations should fight the shallowness of the format by providing the facts -- not embrace it by reporting on a presidential race as if it were a high-school popularity contest.
 For if there's one thing I hope we've learned from the calamity of the last six and a half years, it's that it matters who becomes president -- and that listening to what candidates say about substantive issues offers a much better way to judge potential presidents than superficial character judgments. Mr. Bush's tax lies, not his surface amiability, were the true guide to how he would govern. 
 And I don't know if this country can survive another four years of Bush-quality leadership. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); AL GORE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



148 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Tax Plans Of Candidates Are a Mystery

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Opportunities for real tax reform are rare. But when they do come along, something good can happen only if political leaders are prepared with a plan they can sell to a populace that knows the shortcomings of the present system but is suspicious of changes that may cost them money.
 Otherwise, tax legislation ends up parceling out breaks -- and sometimes punishments -- based on some combination of quiet lobbying and loud grandstanding. The inevitable result is a more complicated, less logical system. 
We are nearing a time of opportunity. George W. Bush will bequeath to his successor a tax system that everyone agrees must be changed by the end of 2010. It should be changed at least a year before that. 
 But if any of the presidential candidates are thinking seriously about the opportunities that will bring, they have kept the information to themselves. And that is a pity.
 At the two presidential debates this week, there was almost no discussion of taxes. 
 Democrats seemed to agree that Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy should expire, but not those for the middle class, a group that has expanded to include people who make as much as $200,000 or $250,000. Republicans spent much more time discussing immigration and evolution, but one candidate did find time to denounce a Democrat, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, for wanting to end the tax cuts.
 We are in this mess -- or this opportunity -- because in 2001 and 2003, when Mr. Bush and a Republican Congress pushed through tax cuts, they wanted to make them as large as possible. For parliamentary reasons, and for budget arithmetic reasons, they allowed many of the cuts to expire at the end of 2010.
 The result is that if nothing is done, tax rates will rise in 2011, and the estate tax, after being repealed for one year, will return to pre-Bush levels. Tax receipts of the government will soar. 
 The last real bipartisan tax reform was in 1986, when President Ronald Reagan persuaded Congress to pass a bill that lowered tax rates and eliminated lots of games that people had played to avoid paying the old high tax rates. It greatly simplified the tax code.
 Congress was soon back to making it more complicated, passing provisions to benefit assorted industries and individuals and to encourage, or discourage, various types of economic behavior. The law is now more complex than ever.
 There is no shortage of ideas for fundamental change. Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, has traveled around to promote what he calls a Fair Flat Tax Act, which is basically an attempt to go back to what Mr. Reagan enacted. It would get rid of many deductions -- but save some of the more popular ones, like retirement savings accounts and mortgage interest -- and have three tax brackets, of 15, 25 and 35 percent. 
 It would treat all income the same, ending preferential rates for capital gains and dividends, and, Senator Wyden says, would feature a tax form that anyone could fill out without help.
 ''People spend more on tax preparation than the federal government spends on higher education,'' Senator Wyden said this week.
 Another idea with some support is to lower income taxes and use a carbon tax, based on the amount of carbon used by a person or company, to both provide a major source of government financing and to help the environment. (''Tax waste, not wealth,'' says the slogan.) 
 A consumption tax has its virtues as well. Michael J. Graetz, a Yale law professor and former Treasury official in George H. W. Bush's administration, promoted a value-added tax -- a national sales tax similar to that used in European countries -- combined with an income tax that would apply only to those with very high incomes. His article promoting the idea was called ''100 Million Unnecessary Returns.''
 The 1986 tax act came after a long and detailed study at the Treasury, which was needed because there were sure to be details and unintended consequences of any proposal to be thought through before lobbyists began their attacks. And it came during Mr. Reagan's second term, when he did not need to worry about re-election.
 ''It's almost impossible to make tax reform happen unless a president is willing to tell people how broken the system is,'' Senator Wyden said.
 The risk now is that candidates will fear bad publicity -- ''She wants to raise taxes on regular people,'' or ''He wants to get rid of the mortgage interest deduction'' -- and will stick to vague platitudes until the election is over.
 Then there will not be enough time to put together a comprehensive bill, and an opportunity will have been missed. 
 Instead, the country will get a warmed-over version of the arguments of the last few years, but no fundamental change. 

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the forecast growth in U.S. government revenue, for fiscal years ending Sept. 30, under current tax law. (Source Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); RON WYDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



149 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: City Traffic Pricing Wins U.S. and Spitzer's Favor

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and RAY RIVERA

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 7 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to reduce traffic by charging people who drive into the busiest parts of Manhattan received significant support on Thursday as Gov. Eliot Spitzer endorsed the idea and the Bush administration indicated that New York stood to gain hundreds of millions of dollars if the plan were enacted.
 If the measure is approved by the Legislature, New York will become the first city in the United States to impose a broad system of congestion pricing, which was introduced in London in 2003 and has been credited with reducing traffic there. 
Governor Spitzer said he would work to ensure passage of the plan, which is a major part of the mayor's blueprint for improving air quality and traffic flow for the next several decades. The Bloomberg administration has estimated that it could put the program into effect within 18 months of legislative approval.
 ''This is a necessary investment for the future of New York City, which is to a great extent the economic engine of New York State,'' the governor said. ''And so this is not really a question of whether, it's a question of how, it's a question of making sure that we do it properly.''
 Mr. Spitzer appeared alongside the United States transportation secretary, Mary E. Peters, who announced that New York City was one of nine finalists for a share of $1.1 billion in federal aid to fight urban traffic. Ms. Peters warned, however, that the city's potential share could be endangered if the mayor's plan did not have state approval by August.
 Despite the pressure of that warning on the Legislature, the plan faces opposition in Albany. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat who represents Lower Manhattan, outlined a list of concerns about the plan, including questions about the several hundred cameras Mayor Bloomberg has proposed installing to track cars that enter Manhattan. Mr. Silver also said the fees paid by drivers in London rose greatly after congestion pricing began, and worried about similar increases here. 
 In the Republican-led Senate, the majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, introduced legislation on Thursday to enact the mayor's plan but stopped short of endorsing it, and it was unclear when the issue would come up for a vote. 
 The mayor's plan would charge $8 for cars and $21 for commercial trucks that enter Manhattan below 86th Street between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on weekdays, or $4 for drivers within the congestion zone, with several exceptions. 
 The legislative session ends on June 21, but the governor said he would most likely call the Legislature back into a special session by August to consider the measure. 
 ''Part of this process is certainly to ensure that we can give the secretary the assurance that this is a plan that will happen,'' the governor said at a joint appearance Thursday morning with the mayor and Ms. Peters. He added, ''She wants that assurance, and therefore we need to create a persuasive argument that Albany is behind this.''
 ''Obviously,'' he added, ''the governor is behind it.'' 
 Secretary Peters, who called the Bloomberg plan ''very bold,'' said that up to five of the nine cities would be selected to receive federal funds by mid-August, but she intimated that New York City was likely to be among the winners because no other city was as far along in its planning.
 ''It cannot be easy for a politician to propose charging commuters more money to enter Manhattan, but the mayor's plan is sound, and the mayor's plan will work,'' she said.
 Despite his endorsement, Governor Spitzer and his aides have concerns about the fine print, including the mayor's proposal to create a public authority to take in the new revenue, estimated at $380 million a year. That would give the mayor more say over transportation spending. Mr. Spitzer would like to see the money remain in the control of existing authorities and would like to use it to ease a looming deficit at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
 Mr. Spitzer also said he wanted to examine any ripple effects the program would have on traffic in neighborhoods outside Manhattan. 
 That concern is shared by some Assembly members from New York City who represent districts just outside the toll zone. 
 ''One of the major problems is that districts like mine and others become possibly parking lots,'' said Assemblyman Joseph R. Lentol, a Democrat who represents the Brooklyn neighborhoods around the Williamsburg Bridge.
 Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a Harlem Democrat, called the plan ''a great start.''
 ''My only condition,'' he added, ''is that we have to be leery and vigilant and watchful that certain communities are not used as parking lots.''
 Mr. Lentol said he believed that a majority of Assembly Democrats would be opposed to the mayor's plan, but added that it was hard to say for sure because many members had yet to focus on the issue.
 The Assembly will hold the first of a series of public hearings on congestion pricing on Friday, with the mayor as the first witness. 
 In the State Senate, the eight Long Island Republicans, an influential bloc, are likely to oppose the bill.
 But the mayor's word carries considerable weight with Republicans. He is one of the largest individual donors to the Senate Republican leadership, giving them more than several hundred thousands last year. 
 ''Looking at the bill, obviously I think we owe the mayor the courtesy of a look through, but it's a difficult thing, a difficult thing to go with,'' said the Senate deputy majority leader, Dean G. Skelos.
 Other finalists for the federal funds are Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, Minneapolis, St. Paul, Miami, San Diego, San Francisco and Seattle. Those cities account for one-third of all highway congestion recorded among the nation's 85 largest cities, and handled about 20 percent of all vehicle travel in America, according to the Transportation Department. 
 New York City officials hope to receive about $500 million in federal money. Secretary Peters suggested the funds could be used right away for enhancing public transit to accommodate those who previously drove to the city.
 As it happened, Ms. Peters said she had been delayed from reaching the Thursday morning meeting with the governor and the mayor because she was stuck in traffic on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Southbound traffic on Ninth Avenue near the Lincoln Tunnel, an area that would be affected by Mayor Bloomberg's congestion pricing proposal. (Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); MARY PETERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



150 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 927 words

 BODY:
 VALUE OF 'FOR SALE BY OWNER' -- Two Northwestern University economists who studied home-sales data from 1998 to 2004 in Madison, Wis., found that people who sold their homes through real estate agents typically did not get a higher sale price than people who sold their homes themselves. [Page A1.] RISE OF PORK PRICES WORRIES CHINA -- China is feeling the pinch of inflation and, as a result, Chinese companies are starting to raise prices for exports, removing what has been a brake on inflation in the West. For Chinese households, the rising prices are seen most dramatically in a critical commodity: pork. [C1.] INFLATION FEARS PULL DOWN SHARES -- Share prices posted their steepest three-day decline since markets dropped around the world in February, and the interest rate on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose above 5 percent for the first time since last summer, as fears about inflation, driving by a strong global economy, preoccupied investors. 
[C1.] NINTENDO NOW PLAYS WITH OTHERS -- Nintendo is known for turning out hits with memorable characters like Donkey Kong, left, and the Super Mario Bros., but it had a reputation for cold-shouldering game software developers, preferring to make its own hardware and software. But the secretive company is coming out of its shell. Along with its successful Wii game console, Nintendo has made a concerted effort to woo other game makers as part of a broader change in strategy to dominate the newest generation of consoles. [C1.] PATENT RULING AGAINST QUALCOMM -- Millions of cellphones containing certain Qualcomm semiconductors may not be imported into the United States, a federal government agency ruled in a patent dispute. [C1.] U.S. TO CONSIDER CLIMATE PLAN -- The United States agreed to ''consider seriously'' a European plan to combat global warming by cutting in half worldwide greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, averting a trans-Atlantic deadlock at a meeting in Germany of the world's richest industrial nations. [A10.] VODAFONE HEARS FROM INVESTORS -- The Vodafone Group, the world's largest cellphone company, said that it had received a letter from a group of shareholders asking it to return as much as $:38 billion ($75 billion) to investors in part by spinning off its stake in Verizon Wireless. The letter is the latest effort by minority shareholders to influence management decisions. [C7.] MEXICO MEDIA LAW OVERTURNED -- Mexico's Supreme Court overwhelmingly voted to declare parts of a new media law unconstitutional, a blow to the country's two main broadcasters. The decision confirmed several preliminary votes that the court's members have taken over the past two weeks. [C2.] EQUAL AND SPLENDA IN NEW RIFT -- An undisclosed settlement between the makers of Equal and Splenda over Splenda's contested slogan of ''made like sugar, so its tastes like sugar'' came apart, prompting a renewed dispute between the two rival makers of artificial sweeteners. [C3.] A HESITANT RETURN TO SHOPPING -- Americans shopped hesitantly in May, giving retailers some relief from a dismal showing in April but still raising questions about how strong consumer spending would be in the months ahead. As the nation's merchants reported results, the disappointments included Wal-Mart Stores, Macy's and Abercrombie & Fitch. Costco Wholesale, Kohl's and luxury retailers like Saks beat expectations. ''It wasn't a blowout, but the gains were a solid snap back,'' said an analyst. [C3.] BIOMET BOARD ACCEPTS HIGHER BID -- A group of private equity firms bidding for Biomet, a maker of artificial joints, sweetened its offer to $11.4 billion after a prominent shareholder adviser criticized its previous bid as too low, and the new offer was accepted by the company's board. [C3.] FEWER SEEK JOBLESS BENEFITS -- Fewer workers signed up for unemployment benefits last week, and inventories at wholesalers picked up in April. [C2.] HAVE CELLPHONE, WILL CRITIQUE -- A leading cellphone maker is taking advantage of the popularity of blogs and other forms of consumer-generated content -- as well as the increasing interest in mobile marketing -- by offering music fans ages 18 and up a chance to play music critic for the summer. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.] DOW JONES'S NEW SEVERANCE PLANS -- Dow Jones & Company, which is considering a $5 billion takeover deal by Rupert Murdoch, has amended its compensation plans so that 160 senior managers could take sizable severance payments with them if they were forced out after a sale. [C3.] PAYMENTS BY BRITISH ARMS MAKER -- A major British arms contractor, BAE, paid more than $2 billion clandestinely into bank accounts in Washington controlled by Prince Bandar bin Sultan of Saudi Arabia, two British news organizations reported. Prince Bandar denied accepting ''improper secret commissions.'' [A3.] PROMOTING A 'WALL STREET WEST' -- Hoping to capitalize on fears of the chaos another terrorist attack might cause in New York's financial industry, Pennsylvania officials are promoting a hilly corner of their state as Wall Street West. [B1.] LINKING SMALL LAW FIRMS -- A way to connect small law firms around the country and the world, and provide help in competing against the big national and global firms, is the idea behind the International Network of Boutique Law Firms. [C6.] CATERING TO WEALTHY CUSTOMERS -- The Wachovia Corporation said that it planned to more than double its private banking group over the next three years, in an effort to add wealthy customers as the nation grows more affluent. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Macy's share prices for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (82%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PORK (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (72%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); PATENT LAW (69%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); PATENTS (64%); EMISSIONS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (83%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (62%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (83%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%); VOD (NASDAQ) (52%); VOD (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (83%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (62%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



151 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: As the Local Economy Prospers, So Does the Lobbying Industry

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
The strong local economy that is driving record city surpluses is also helping the lobbying industry.
 Revenues of people paid to influence city government grew 18 percent last year to $44 million, according to an annual report released by the city clerk's office. 
Nearly half the money was concentrated among the top 10 firms, whose clients included real estate developers, telecommunications companies and nonprofit foundations. Leading the group for the second year in a row was Kasirer Consulting, a lobbying practice run by Suri Kasirer. Her top clients included Silverite Construction, a Long Island general contractor; T-Mobile, the cellphone carrier; and U.S. Power Generating Company, an electricity producer. Each paid her firm $120,000 in lobbying fees. 
 Ms. Kasirer's revenues grew by nearly $600,000 from the previous year to a total of $3.02 million. 
 Ms. Kasirer is also a prolific fund-raiser for officials like City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who is considered a mayoral hopeful. 
 Bolton-St. Johns was second, moving up two spots with earnings of $2.5 million. Bolton's top clients included the Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, the university's governing body; and the Amdec Foundation Inc., a nonprofit group of medical schools, health centers and research institutions involved in biomedical research. 
 The increase in revenue comes as the Bloomberg administration and the City Council try to rein in any undue influence that lobbyists may have by reducing the amount they can contribute to local candidates.
 One factor most likely driving the growth is the city's development boom, as developers hire lobbyists to help them navigate the land-use application process, said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a government watchdog group. Another factor, he said, might be the city's growing budget -- expected to hit $59 billion next year with a $4.4 billion surplus -- as more and more nonprofit groups hire lobbyists to help them win city money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MAYORS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); BIOMEDICINE (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



152 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Is Selling Itself as Wall Street's Backup in a Disaster

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Hoping to capitalize on fears of the chaos another terrorist attack might cause in New York's financial industry, Pennsylvania officials are promoting a corner of their state as Wall Street West.
 They maintain that since the region is about 100 miles west of Manhattan, it is outside New York City's theoretical nuclear blast zone. It is ideally situated, they say, to be a safe retreat from the metropolis, but close enough to be linked directly to the computers that run the banking and trading systems.
 ''We think we're uniquely positioned,'' said Catherine A. Bolton, project director of the Wall Street West consortium, whose goal is to lure financial companies based in New York to put backup facilities in a nine-county region in northeast Pennsylvania. ''There are places in New Jersey, but they're not outside the blast zone.'' 
 Yesterday, Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania was in New York announcing plans to build a critical connection: a $24 million network of fiber optic cables to carry data from Manhattan to the Poconos. Among the missing links, though, is any sign of serious interest from firms in the real Wall Street area. 
 So far, none of the big banks, investment banks or insurance companies based in the city have made commitments to putting data backup centers in that part of Pennsylvania. 
 Instead, they have been spreading out within the metropolitan area to give themselves the flexibility to react to crises ranging from power failures to natural disasters and terrorism.
 A few months ago, Goldman Sachs, the big investment bank, took over the lease on office space in Greenwich, Conn., which had housed a hedge fund that shut down. Goldman officials see that space, which is just 25 miles north of Manhattan, as a potential backup trading floor if their headquarters near Wall Street is damaged or becomes disconnected.
 Since the Sept. 11 attack, financial companies have given priority to developing backup systems and disaster-recovery plans. In the immediate aftermath, federal regulators and elected officials issued some bold pronouncements about separating primary and backup systems. 
 Richard A. Grasso, the former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, used the phrase ''nuclear distance'' in describing where the exchange was considering putting its secondary trading floor. Banking regulators discussed the need to have the backup sites outside a ''blast zone'' with a radius of 50 miles or more.
 Those statements confounded Wall Street executives because backup centers could not reliably capture trading data instantaneously -- known as synchronous data storage -- if they were much more than 100 miles away. They eventually persuaded the regulators to restrain their rhetoric.
 In May 2003, federal banking regulators clarified their security recommendations, leaving much of the judgment to company officials. They did not specify a distance but said backup facilities where financial firms set up computers to copy information on all their trading and banking transactions could stay ''within the current range limit of synchronous data storage technology.''
 A point emphasized by the advocates of the Wall Street West region is that it sits just inside that 100-mile limit. But first, there has to be a high-speed data link to Manhattan.
 Mr. Rendell announced yesterday that the consortium had chosen Level 3 Communications to build the fiber optic network that would complete the connection.
 ''We're now ready to go,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''We have everything in line.''
 So far, the project has received a $15 million grant from the federal Department of Labor to train local workers for the jobs that Wall Street West hopes to attract. Mr. Rendell said he thought the project could get $4 million to $5 million more from Washington. But he said the public investment would not go beyond about $25 million unless the financial industry embraced the idea.
 Level 3 has agreed to spend $8 million toward the cost of building the local loops of wires and splice them into the existing networks running westward from New York City, said Raouf Abdel, president of the business markets group at Level 3 in Broomfield, Colo. Public coffers would pay the balance of the bill.
 Mr. Abdel said that the entire network could be built within 18 months and that Wall Street firms could be operating data centers in the area by early 2009. But first, Level 3 executives and Pennsylvania officials must persuade some companies to be pioneers in the Poconos.
 Level 3 does not plan to start building the network until it has signed up customers who, as a group, will pay it at least $625,000 every three months to provide telecommunications service, Mr. Abdel said. No contracts have been signed yet, but, he said, ''We are seeing interest.''
 There may be places in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut that are suitable alternatives for Wall Street's backup sites, but most of them are considerably more costly than northeast Pennsylvania, Mr. Abdel said.
 ''There is a need for large data center space measured in tens of thousands of square feet, and cheap real estate helps,'' he said.
 Mr. Rendell admitted that developing Wall Street West ''is a little bit of a chicken and egg.''
 Without the critical infrastructure, big financial companies will not seriously consider making the move. On the other hand, Mr. Rendell said, Pennsylvania is reluctant to spend too much money building up an area to appeal to a specific industry until it knows that there will be a payoff.
 ''If no one decides to come, we won't build it,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''The sites that are under preparation, those are easily transferable to other uses.''
 New York State officials, who are trying to lure the same financial companies to set up data centers upstate, said the benefits of Wall Street West might have been overstated.
 ''The infrastructure is not the total answer,'' said Dan Gunderson, who is the chief economic development official for upstate New York. ''The infrastructure can be found in many different locations.'' 
 But Mr. Gunderson, who formerly was an economic development official in Pennsylvania, gave his competitors credit for trying.
 ''I think they're serious about selling the product that they're trying to develop,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania on 42nd Street yesterday. He was in Manhattan to court Wall Street into putting facilities in his state. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (75%); DATA SECURITY (74%); POWER FAILURES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); INSURANCE (65%); FIBER OPTICS (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007



153 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Ample Jobs, But Youths Are Choosy

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
For youths who want to work this summer, the job market is strong, offering a wide range of employment opportunities. The bigger question seems to be, Who is going to take them?
 ''At Yellowstone, you could show up today and probably be in a dorm room and go to work tomorrow morning,'' said Bill Berg, a founder of the job board Coolworks.com, which contracts with employers in the national parks and other travel destinations to promote job opportunities. ''In many cases, you can write your own ticket now, particularly if you're a cook or a chef.''
Other traditional jobs like lifeguards and hot-dog vendors at the ballpark also go wanting. 
 ''Not as many kids want to do that kind of work,'' said Howard Feldstein, director for the Arlington Employment Center, which for the last 11 years has held a summer job fair for 13-to-23-year-olds in the Washington area. ''I think the desire for summer jobs has changed a little bit; kids are looking not only for income, but what makes them look good for the next step in their life.'' 
 Increasingly, students are seeking out internships, both paid and unpaid, or jobs that will provide training for a future career.
 In response, employers who rely on teenagers and college students are adapting their jobs to make them more attractive.
 Summer camps, for example, are creating internships and working with universities to allow students to earn college credits, said Ann Sheets, president of the American Camp Association.
 ''When you think of working at summer camp, you normally think of recreation activities,'' she said. ''But there are many other positions that have nothing to do with recreation.''
 For example, Ms. Sheets said, a student interested in nutrition could work as a dietitian with a camp. A business major can help in purchasing and operations.
 ''The camp directors I know have packaged opportunities so they apply to a number of types of students,'' she said. 
 Darcie Strohmaier, a 21-year-old psychology major at Ramapo College in New Jersey, will be working as a cabin counselor at Camp Echo in the Catskills, for college credits. Ms. Strohmaier wants to be a teacher after graduation. She will be using the experience to do fieldwork with children.
 As part of the cooperative program offered by her college, she will live with and supervise a group of 8-year-old girls. She will write weekly journals on her experience, followed by a term paper at the end of the summer. Her focus will be conflict resolution and motivation in children.
 She pays the college $250 for each of four credits she will earn, but she will also be paid about $1,800 by the camp.
 ''It's almost like taking a course you don't go to school for,'' Ms. Strohmaier said. ''And the experience with these children will prepare me to be a better teacher.''
 Marla Coleman, an owner and director of Camp Echo, said she was seeing more counselors who were interested in internship and arrangements like the ones for college credits.
 ''There are all kinds of variations and models,'' she said. 
 Internships are also popular in numerous other areas, including accounting, finance and health care.
 In recent years, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of youths age 16 to 24 working from April to July has grown to 24.6 million in 2006 from 24.1 million in 2003. The percentage of youths participating varies slightly from 67.3 percent to 66.7 percent during that period.
 The number of youths working this summer is expected to remain about the same and a wealth of online job sites like SummerJobs, SnagAJob, Teens4Hire are available to aid teenagers and college students in their search.
 A sampling of job listings range from working in the dining room of Jordan House at Acadia National Park -- ''should be in good condition, expect to carry trays of dishes weighing more than 50 lbs 100 times a day'' (pay $6 an hour, plus tips) -- to canvassing communities to raise awareness for environmental groups ($4,000 to $6,000 for the summer) to performing and working as a character at Walt Disney World.
 Still, there are concerns about unemployment, particularly in light of increases in the minimum wage.
 The number of unemployed youths age 16 to 24 increased by 658,000 last summer, according to the Labor Department . And, the department's monthly job report for May showed that the teenage unemployment rate was about three and a half times the national rate of 4.5 percent.
 Some predict the situation will worsen with the passage of an increase to the federal minimum wage. In May, Congress passed and President Bush signed a law increasing the minimum wage to $7.25, from $5.15. The increase will occur in three steps. The first increase, to $5.85, will occur in July, two months after the bill was signed by the president. It will increase to $6.55 one year after that, and to $7. 25 a year later.
 ''With the minimum wage hike, people who hire lower-skilled, entry-level workers are saying, 'Hmmm, maybe I don't hire that extra worker or maybe I hire someone in the job market a little longer,' '' said Dr. Jill Jenkins, chief economist for the Employment Policies Institute, a nonprofit research group that studies issues of entry-level employment. 
 ''You're going to see fewer teens who are going to be employed when you bump up the wage rates. More people are going to come out looking for those jobs.''
 Such attitudes typically pit student workers against retirees and immigrants, with child labor laws working against teenagers when it comes to employment.
 ''When you hire a teen you have to follow all the rules for the department,'' said Nadia Conyers, youth employment program coordinator with the Arlington Employment Center. ''A lot of places now, if you're under 18, it's a little bit harder to find a job.''
 Ms. Conyers said the employment center compiled a list of retailers that would hire younger teenagers and provided workshops to help those who cannot find a job to create one for themselves, like baby-sitting, lawn mowing and running errands.
 Chelsea Straughn, 15, who attended the Arlington job fair, resume in hand, agreed the options were limited, but she still put in an application for seven jobs. Her favorite was a receptionist job with United Parcel Service that would require typing and answering phones, although most of the jobs she applied for centered around pools, either as a lifeguard or working at the gate.
 ''There wasn't a lot to choose from, most jobs you had to be 16,'' said Chelsea, who will be a sophomore at Bishop Ireton High School in Alexandria, Va., next fall.
 Still, both she and her mother, Pam Straughn, said just getting out and exploring the job market provided a valuable experience.
 ''It's good to get out there and get a sense of what it is like to look for a job,'' Ms. Straughn said. ''This summer if she hears back from an employer that will be great. If not, that's fine, too. We'll be out there next year when there will be many more opportunities.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darcie Strohmaier is a psychology major at Ramapo College in New Jersey and will be working as a cabin counselor at Camp Echo in the Catskills, for college credits. Ms. Strohmaier wants to be a teacher after graduation. (Photo by Aaron Houston for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (62%); NUTRITION (62%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (85%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (66%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



154 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Canada Seeks W.T.O. Panel to Settle Dispute

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: OTTAWA, June 8 

 BODY:
Canada has taken the next step in its challenge of American farm subsidies at the World Trade Organization, requesting that a dispute settlement panel be established.
 ''We remain concerned that the U.S. is providing agricultural subsidies in breach of its W.T.O. commitments,'' the Canadian trade minister, David L. Emerson, said Friday in a statement. Ottawa said Washington's aid to farmers exceeded W.T.O. limits of $19.1 billion a year in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2004 and 2005. 
It is the first broad challenge of United States farm programs, a Toronto trade lawyer, Lawrence Herman, said, noting that Brazil successfully challenged a U.S. cotton subsidy at the W.T.O.
 The request comes as lawmakers in Washington draft the next farm bill, a package of farm programs that Mr. Emerson blamed for excessive subsidies, and as international trade powers try to resuscitate the long-floundering Doha round of W.T.O. negotiations.
 Canada took its first step in the case in January when it requested consultations on corn and other farm products.
 Eight others, including the European Union, Brazil and Australia, joined the consultations as third parties.
 The United States will defend the farm programs, which it contends comply with W.T.O. rules, a spokeswoman for the office of the United States trade representative, Gretchen Hamel, said.
 ''Canada's claims are without foundation, and if a panel is established, we will demonstrate this,'' Ms. Hamel said. Countries should work for freer farm trade in W.T.O. negotiations rather than through legal challenges, she said.
 But Mr. Emerson said the case reinforces Canada's efforts in the Doha talks, and he urged Washington to ensure that its next farm bill complies with W.T.O. rules.
 Canada also said that the United States violates W.T.O. rules with the credit guarantees that subsidize some exports.
 Ottawa began looking at a case because of pressure from corn producers, based mainly in the vote-rich provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
 In an unsuccessful 2005 domestic trade case, the corn farmers argued that American subsidies depressed Canadian corn prices by about 14 percent.
 But the Canadian International Trade Tribunal ruled a year ago that U.S. corn imports did not hurt Canada's industry, a decision that was upheld this week on appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); LAWYERS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COTTON FARMING (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); APPEALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); QUEBEC, CANADA (59%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



155 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Jeweler to Pay $400,000 in Online Auction Fraud Settlement

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
A Manhattan jewelry dealer who directed his employees to secretly place bids that inflated the price of goods his company auctioned on eBay has agreed to pay $400,000 to settle a civil fraud complaint, the New York attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, said yesterday. 
 The settlement also bars the merchant, Ezra Dweck, and his company, the EMH Group, from participating in online auctions for four years, according to a statement by Mr. Cuomo's office. The settlement includes a $100,000 fine and $300,000 in restitution.
 EMH deals in ''large quantities'' of diamonds, gold and platinum jewelry and supplies ''most of the major U.S. chain stores,'' according to the company's Web site. Mr. Cuomo's lawsuit said Mr. Dweck listed items on eBay as having no reserve price -- meaning they would be sold no matter how low the highest bid was -- but that he distributed spreadsheets to employees instructing them on what bids they should place to drive up the final sale price.
 Mr. Cuomo said the company placed 232,000 bids totaling more than $5 million over a one-year period.
 The deceptive practice of insiders posing as bidders, known as shill bidding, has a long and notorious history in traditional auction markets. It has become a growing concern for the operators of online markets and regulators.
 Ebay, the nation's largest online auction marketplace, with more than 200 million registered users, brought the suspicious bidding patterns involving EMH to the attention of the attorney general -- at the time Eliot Spitzer -- late in 2005. The office took more than a year to complete its economic analysis before filing the complaint.
 Ebay has installed a number of policies and surveillance tactics aimed at curbing shill bidding.
 State and federal authorities have brought civil and criminal charges involving shill bidding against online auctioneers selling goods including computers, artwork and automobiles. 
 Mr. Cuomo's office estimated that Mr. Dweck's practices had inflated the prices on the jewelry that EMH sold by 20 percent. 
 Mr. Dweck could not be reached for comment yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



156 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Quantifying the Role of Old-School Ties in Investing

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Donna Anderson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A new study circulating through hedge funds and university campuses points to the powerful role that old-school ties play in the world of investing.
 Mutual fund managers invest more money in companies that are run by people with whom they went to college or graduate school than in companies where they have no such connections, the study found. The investments involving school ties, on average, also do significantly better than other investments.
 The authors of the study offer two possible explanations -- one benign and one decidedly not. Fund managers may simply know more about their old classmates, including which ones are likely to make good executives. The alternate explanation is that those executives may be passing along inside information to the fund managers.
 The researchers do not take a position about which explanation is more likely. 
 ''Everything we have is consistent with both explanations,'' said Andrea Frazzini, an assistant professor at the University of Chicago and one of the study's three authors. But he added, ''We have no evidence of wrongdoing by any of these fund managers.'' 
 Officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission have asked the authors to present their findings next month at one of the regular seminars held within the commission's Office of Economic Analysis.
 The paper is the latest example of an approach that might be called investigative economics, in which researchers dig through enormous amounts of data to look for patterns. In 2005, this kind of research helped uncover the widespread backdating of stock options, a scandal that has resulted in criminal complaints against some company executives and the resignations of a number of others. Other research led Eliot Spitzer, then New York's attorney general, to crack down on illegal after-hours trading by mutual funds.
 It remains unclear whether the latest paper will have any similar impact or whether it has pointed to improper trading. But some other economists who have read the paper said they believed that it probably had, even if the extent of such trading might be relatively small.
 ''It's a very good paper,'' said Michael S. Weisbach, a finance professor at the University of Illinois. ''It suggests that there is illegal activity going on, but it doesn't provide the S.E.C. a road map. You certainly can't prosecute someone for having a good return on a company by somebody they went to college with.''
 The study is being distributed by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit group in Cambridge, Mass., that helps finance work by many of the country's top economists. The authors have submitted the paper to The Journal of Political Economy, where it is being reviewed.
 The authors have also been presenting it at academic seminars, as well as to the hedge fund arm of Goldman Sachs and to AQR Capital Management, another hedge fund. Regardless of their cause, the patterns are of potential interest to other investors, who could track the investments of mutual fund managers and mimic those strategies that seemed to work especially well.
 ''Something about these social networks is allowing portfolio managers to better predict the future returns of companies within the network,'' said Lauren Cohen of Yale, another author.
 The study looked only at mutual funds, which are required to report their holdings and performance regularly. It did not examine hedge funds, which are investment pools for wealthy individuals and institutions; hedge funds do not have to disclose their holdings publicly. 
 Mr. Cohen, Mr. Frazzini and the third researcher, Christopher Malloy of London Business School, are all in their late 20s or early 30s. They were inspired to do the study partly by how often they noticed people talking about their alma maters when they were introduced to each other in the business world, Mr. Cohen said. The economists wondered whether these social networks affected investment choices.
 Their study, titled ''The Small World of Investing,'' examined 85 percent of the total assets under management from 1990 to 2006 and looked at different levels of university connections. 
 In the weakest kind of connection, a fund manager and one of a company's top three executives shared nothing more than an alma mater. They could have attended different schools within the university and have been on the campus decades apart.
 In the strongest connection, a fund manager and one of the top three executives attended the same school at the same university, and their time on campus overlapped. The most common shared school in the study, by far, was Harvard Business School.
 On average, investments in companies where there was no connection returned 11.7 percent a year before fees, according to the economists' estimates. Investments in companies with the closest level of connection -- when a fund manager attended school with an executive -- returned 20.1 percent a year.
 As might be expected, investments with weaker connections had returns that fell somewhere in between, with returns of more than 11.7 percent and less than 20.1 percent.
 The most benign explanation for the pattern is simply that fund managers who attended school with executives have an easier time learning about the companies where those executives work. They are more likely to travel in similar social circles and may even remember their old classmate's strengths and weaknesses.
 ''The results are much more consistent with the story that you went to college with Person X and know they're really smart,'' said Steven N. Kaplan, a finance professor at the University of Chicago. ''My guess is that the whispering is going on, too, but the question is the relative amounts.''
 Supporting Mr. Kaplan's view, the paper does not offer clear evidence that the investments by the fund managers did unusually well in the weeks and months immediately after a stock was purchased.
 On the other hand, investing based on school ties seems to have become less popular recently, which could suggest that financial regulations passed after the demise of Enron cut down on the exchange of inside information.
 Last year, 7.1 percent of fund managers invested in at least one company that had a top executive with whom they had gone to school, down from 15 percent in 2002. The average during the 1990s was 11 percent.
 The paper did highlight one specific example -- to the displeasure of the company involved. Toward the beginning, the paper describes a mutual fund run by a graduate of Harvard Business School that did well by investing in Cummins Engine in the late 1990s. Two large purchases of Cummins stock happened in the months before it jumped in price, and the sale of those shares came in the months before it dropped.
 (Mutual funds are required to disclose their holdings every quarter, meaning that the economists could not examine shorter time periods.)
 A number of top officials at Cummins also attended Harvard Business School, though not at the same time as the fund manager.
 The research paper does not identify the mutual fund, but public records make it clear that it is one run by Fidelity Investments.
 Scott Beyerl, a Fidelity spokesman, said yesterday that he did not want to comment directly on the study. ''Our equity portfolio managers continue to select stocks for their funds the way they always have -- using a bottom-up approach focused on the relative attractiveness of company fundamentals and stock valuations,'' Mr. Beyerl added.
 Jean Blackwell, the chief financial officer at Cummins, said she was unhappy that the paper had singled out the company. ''The linkages were weak,'' she said. ''It impugned our integrity without establishing that anything happened, and I take that really seriously.'' 

GRAPHIC: Chart: Mutual fund managers perform better when they invest in companies run by their classmates, according to a study of United States equity funds from 1990 to 2006. Portfolio manager and company's C.E.O., C.F.O. or chairman: Have no educational connection Annual return: 11.7% Were part of a university program (like a business or an undergraduate school) at the same time Annual return: 20.1 (Source by Lauren Cohen, Andrea Frazzini and Christopher Malloy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



157 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Caution: Lower Truck Sales Ahead; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Rising Gas Prices And Softness In Housing Cause Buyers To Downshift

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley and Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 8 

 BODY:
For most of their history, pickups have been to auto companies what they were to their customers: reliable workhorses, with Detroit counting on them for big sales and profits even as flashier cars came and went.
 When paired with sport utility vehicles, pickups provided auto makers with a one-two punch of profits and a measure of insulation from foreign competitors, which have struggled to make headway in a market dominated by General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group.
By the late 1990s, pickups became more than just work trucks. Loaded with the same expensive features found on cars, like leather seats, booming stereos and big passenger compartments, pickups shared the same cachet as S.U.V.'s, bought by consumers who parked them in suburban driveways, not at construction sites.
 But as with sport utilities, the popularity of pickups is in decline. Sales have dropped, rebates and other incentives are climbing, even for companies like G.M. and Toyota that have the newest models on the market. 
 In March, Bucky Hacker traded his 2002 Dodge Ram Quad Cab pickup for a subcompact car, the Mazda 3. Mr. Hacker, a student from Oak Ridge, Tenn., originally bought the Ram to tow a boat, and also thought its macho appearance would help him attract girls.
 But there were drawbacks. ''Gas was ridiculous,'' Mr. Hacker, 24, said. ''The thing got 13 miles per gallon.'' His Mazda averages twice that, or 26 miles per gallon in city and highway driving, and it will be easier to fit into tight parking spaces at the University of Tennessee, where he plans to study political science this fall.
 Mr. Hacker touches on a reason sales have dropped: a growing sense of environmental responsibility that has flared along with gas prices. That, and an uncertain housing market, which is prompting many contractors to delay buying new trucks, have combined to cut into pickup truck sales, which are down 5 percent so far this year from a weak market last year. That is more than double the overall decline in industry sales, which are down 2 percent this year.
 Because of the decline, automakers expect pickups to post their lowest sales this year since the beginning of the decade, even with incentives.
 The average discount on a Dodge Ram is $6,000, up $500 since January, according to the Power Information Network, which tracks industry trends. Chevrolet is paying an average of $2,343 in incentives on each Silverado pickup, double its discounts at the beginning of the year, when the truck was new. 
 Even Toyota is discounting the Tundra, which it introduced in February, by an average of $2,000, the Power data showed.
 ''We used to have a lot of people getting out of an S.U.V. and into a truck,'' said Scott Satiritz, general sales manager at Massey-Yardley Chrysler Dodge in Hobe Sound, Fla. Now, he said, ''the average customer is not buying a pickup.''
 ''They're into economy cars because of the mileage. Gas prices have really hurt.''
 In fact, Ford's trade-in data shows a number of customers have exchanged F-series pickups for cars like the smaller Ford Focus or the Fusion sedan, said the company's chief sales analyst, George Pipas. That suggests customers who do not need pickups are not returning for them.
 ''The people who are buying trucks are buying them because they have to, not because they want to,'' said Steve Magers, general manager of Elmhurst Ford in Elmhurst, Ill., about 20 miles west of Chicago. 
 His F-series sales have dropped 10 to 12 percent since the beginning of the year, with commercial users, like owners of construction companies and landscaping firms, making up the bulk of his truck business. 
 Gone are the customers who purchased big trucks because they were ''a status symbol thing,'' Mr. Magers said.
 Six years ago, 28 percent of consumers nationwide who bought pickups did so because they liked the way they looked, according to data from CNW Marketing Research, which follows industry trends. This year, only 16 percent of customers purchased big trucks primarily for their appearance.
 As for the buyers who have defected, Art Spinella, the president of CNW, said: ''They won't come back. They're finding other vehicles that make fashion statements.''
 Mr. Spinella said contractors, farmers or ranchers who need pickups for their businesses will continue to buy them, but not so often as in the past. 
 That is a reason a Lehman Brothers analyst, Brian Johnson, predicts that the truck market may continue to decline. If so, it will mean more problems for Detroit auto companies, all trying to rebound from billion-dollar losses in 2006.
 At Ford, which relies heavily on trucks, pickups accounted for 24 percent of its sales and 41 percent of the company's gross North American profits during the last five years, Mr. Johnson calculated in a research report.
 That compares with 32 percent of gross profits at G.M., which relies on pickups for 20 percent of its sales. Pickups contributed 25 percent of profits at Chrysler, where 18 percent of vehicle sales were pickups the last five years.
 In 2005, the latest year for which he had data available, pickups generated about $10,000 apiece in gross profits for the auto companies, Mr. Johnson said. That compares with about $8,000 for the typical S.U.V., and just $400 on each subcompact car. 
 The decline in pickup truck sales last year was a big contributor to Ford's $12.6 billion loss, a figure that included charges for its restructuring plan.
 If gas prices were to climb toward $5, helping to send the economy into a tailspin, Mr. Johnson said that in the worst case, truck sales could fall by half, to just 7 percent of the American market. That was the share they held in the late 1980s before automakers enticed customers by loading up trucks with options and introducing big extended-cab versions. 
 A 7 percent market share would translate into annual sales of only 1.1 million pickups, or nearly what Ford sold by itself just a few years ago.
 Despite economic fears, some dealers say their pickup truck business has remained steady. While the total number of shoppers has fallen off at Wade Ford in Smyrna, Ga., the dealership is selling the same number of pickups that it did a year ago, said Chris Greeson, the new-vehicle general sales manager. ''When they come in to buy an F-150, they know it isn't a 30-mile-per-gallon vehicle,'' Mr. Greeson said.
 Still, Mr. Johnson said, in the long term, automakers must address the fuel economy of pickup trucks. At G.M., where Silverado sales rose 10 percent in May, thanks in part to the big discounts, fuel economy is a main focus in marketing the new versions of its pickup trucks, which are about 10 percent more efficient than the previous models.
 ''We do have some pluses in our arsenal that are helping us to weather that storm,'' said Paul Ballew, the chief sales analyst at G.M. 
 Along with better performance for gasoline-powered engines, Mr. Johnson sees diesel-powered pickup trucks gaining in popularity. 
 Here, Toyota is at a disadvantage: it does not offer its big Tundra with a diesel engine, unlike G.M., Ford, Chrysler and even Nissan, which expects to make a diesel engine available on its big Titan pickup in 2009. That also is when Honda expects to sell diesel engines, although they will be available first on cars rather than its Ridgeline pickup.
 At Toyota, Mr. Johnson said, ''with so much focus on hybrids, there is an inertia when it comes to diesels.''
 Company officials insist they are studying diesel engines. Beyond that, they are satisfied with the early performance of the Tundra, which they say will meet the company's goal of selling 200,000 this year
 While Toyota is not falling short of its sales goals, Tundra's reputation was bruised when it failed to receive a five-star rating in front-end crash tests performed by the federal government, a standard achieved by all of Detroit's big pickups. 
 Likewise, the company's decision to stress its more expensive models equipped with its biggest V-8 engine seemed at odds with Toyota's reputation for selling green cars like the fuel-sipping Prius. 
 Mr. Spinella said he would not be surprised to see Toyota quickly develop a more basic version of the Tundra, aimed at the same buyers who purchase cheaper, simpler work trucks from Chevrolet and Ford. Without them, Toyota may not be able to fully use its new plant in San Antonio, which it has dedicated to producing pickups, Mr. Spinella said.
 At least Toyota put its plant in one state where pickups remain the vehicle of choice, no matter how high gasoline prices rise. As Mr. Pipas at Ford said, ''You wouldn't want to park your Escape hybrid in front of Mickey Gilley's bar.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Inspectors check a Toyota Tundra pickup truck before it rolls off the assembly line in San Antonio, Tex. (Photo by Erich Schlegel for The New York Times)
 Pickups have rivaled S.U.V.'s with their expensive features. Some Ford F-series pickups have been offered with the option of an onboard PC. (Photo by Isaac Brekken/Associated Press)(pg. C4) Drawing (Drawing by The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: ''Looks Aren't Everything'' More pickup truck buyers are now choosing them for farm and fleet uses, and less for their appearance. Primary reason for buying a pickup truck: '01 Farm or ranch use: 10% Fleet use: 11 RV towing: 14 Contractor: 37 Appearance: 28 '07 Farm or ranch use: 21% Fleet use: 15 RV towing: 12 Contractor: 36 Appearance: 16 (Source by CNW Research)(pg. C1) Chart: ''Declining Pickup Sales'' Graph tracks sales for the following since 2000: G.M. Ford Chrysler Toyota Nissan (Source by MotorIntelligence.com)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SALES REBATES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TRENDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



158 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: In Corporations They Don't Trust

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
MAYBE senior executives really do not have a clue.
 There is a ''trust gap between consumers and global corporations, as well as a lack of understanding among business leaders about what consumers really expect from companies,'' The McKinsey Quarterly finds.
For example, while 68 percent of executives said that large corporations made a ''generally'' or ''somewhat'' positive contribution to the public good, fewer than half (48 percent) of consumers agreed. The number was just 40 percent in the United States. 
 When asked how much they trusted certain institutions to act in the best interest of society, European and American consumers put large global corporations at ''the bottom of the list -- beneath nongovernmental organizations, small regional companies, the United Nations, labor unions and the media,'' the McKinsey consultants Sheila M. J. Bonini, Kerrin McKillop and Lenny T. Mendonca wrote.
 The worldwide survey of 4,238 global business executives and 4,063 consumers also showed that ''executives have only a limited understanding of what issues are in the minds of consumers.''
 When asked what three concerns would be most important to them over the next five years, ''almost half of the consumers picked environmental issues, followed by pension and other retirement benefits, and health care.''
 ''Executives predicted consumers would put job losses and offshoring first, followed by privacy and data security, and the environment.''
 WHAT, ME WORRY? One reason so many executives make so many mistakes is they are overly optimistic, Daniel Kahneman, a Nobel laureate in economic science, says.
 ''People assign much higher probability to the truth of their opinions than is warranted,'' Mr. Kahneman, a Princeton professor, said. ''This natural inclination to exaggerate our talents is amplified by a tendency to misperceive the causes of events. The typical pattern is for people to take credit for positive outcomes and to attribute negative outcomes to external factors, no matter what their true cause.''
 In an interview with Karen Christensen in Rotman Magazine, Mr. Kahneman gave a simple example. Mergers, he pointed out, tend to occur when the economy is expanding.
 ''At such times, executives can overattribute their company's strong performance to their own actions and abilities, rather than to the buoyant economy,'' he said. ''Consequently, many M&A decisions may be the result of hubris, as the executives evaluating an acquisition candidate come to believe that with proper planning and superior management skills they could make it work. Studies of postmerger performance suggest that, on average, they are mistaken.'' 
 One way managers could improve their decision-making abilities would be to analyze their mistakes systematically, but he added that was unlikely to happen. ''Executives don't like to be second-guessed, and procedures that are threatening to them are not likely to be adopted,'' Mr. Kahneman said. 
 NUCLEAR REDUX? We are about to see a surge in applications to build nuclear power plants, spurred both by an increasing need for energy and concerns about the pollution that current power sources produce, EnergyBiz reports. 
 ''Starting this fall, the federal government anticipates that utilities will file license applications for as many as 30 new nuclear plants, the first such proposals in three decades,'' Martin Rosenberg writes.
 In an interview that made up part of a package in the magazine, R. William Borchardt, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's director for the office of new reactors, said it would take three to four years to evaluate the applications of new plants. Construction will take an additional three to four years, which means the plants probably will not be in operation before 2015.
 If approved, most of the plants will be in the South. There are now 104 nuclear power plants in the United States, according to EnergyBiz. 
 FINAL TAKE -- From the ''sometimes being first is not a good thing'' department: Psychology Today reports 56 percent of M.B.A. students cheat, versus 47 percent of graduate students in other disciplines. PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); OFFSHORING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (64%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



159 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: 3-Day Slide Ends as Bond Yields Fall

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks closed higher yesterday after a three-day slide as bond yields retreated and oil prices fell, easing worries about rising borrowing costs and inflation.
 A flurry of encouraging corporate reports, including a strong monthly sales report from McDonald's, lent support.
Shares in National Semiconductor, the computer chip maker, rose 14.7 percent after the company reported higher-than-expected profit, adding to optimism about technology spending and helping lift the Nasdaq more than 1 percent. 
 Even with yesterday's gains, stocks finished the week with their heaviest losses since the week ended March 2 as bond yields rose on concerns that global growth will raise inflation. Rising yields can cut into corporate profits and make takeovers more expensive as borrowing costs rise.
 Stocks also got a lift from falling crude oil prices after a storm that threatened Mideast supplies dissipated.
 ''After having been spooked by the rapidity with which long rates were rising, the market is regaining its footing, which makes some sense, seeing as the fundamentals haven't changed at all,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners in Greenwich, Conn.
 ''What we essentially had was a bond market that was absurdly valued, priced for several rate cuts, and we found out that those assumptions were as wrong as wrong could be. I see weakness in stocks as a buying opportunity.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 157.66 points, or 1.19 percent, to 13,424.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 16.95 points, or 1.14 percent, to 1,507.67. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 32.16 points, or 1.27 percent, to 2,573.54.
 For the week, the Dow declined 1.78 percent, the S.& P. 500 fell 1.87 percent and the Nasdaq lost 1.54 percent.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to a price of 95 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, retreated to 5.11 percent from 5.13 percent late Thursday.
 Utility stocks, battered in the sell-off, climbed as the 10-year note's yield declined. Utilities and other large-dividend payers had become less attractive to investors as bond yields rose during the week.
 Shares of Constellation Energy gained $1.01, or 1.2 percent, to $83.92. Entergy rose $2.49, or 2.4 percent, to $106.80.
 Shares of industrial conglomerates, particularly those sensitive to increases in oil prices, rose as crude oil futures fell more than $2 a barrel. Alcoa advanced 73 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $39.66, and helped lift the Dow. United Technologies rose $1.36, or 2 percent, to $70.23, while Boeing gained $1.35, or 1.4 percent, to $98.19. Together, they ranked as the Dow's biggest gainers.
 McDonald's stock climbed $1.20, or 2.4 percent, to $51.41, posting its largest monthly comparable sales increase in more than three years.
 Tyco International was up $1.17, or 3.6 percent to $33.80, after it formally approved its separation into three publicly traded companies through a spinoff to shareholders.
 Semiconductor shares helped the Nasdaq composite index, with National Semiconductor shares up $3.79, to $29.58. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange index of semiconductors rose 3.1 percent.
 Shares of Qualcomm gained 85 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $41.87, after the company said demand for wireless chips is better than expected. A Russian Energy Exchange (By Bloomberg News) 
 The New York Mercantile Exchange is in talks to create a Russian energy exchange in St. Petersburg, according to its chief executive, James E. Newsome.
 ''We're working with the Russian government to develop a futures exchange in St. Petersburg,'' Mr. Newsome said yesterday while in St. Petersburg to sign a memorandum of understanding and begin the project.
 Russia's deputy economic development and trade minister, Kirill Androsov, said this week that he expected futures trading in the Russian export blend of crude oil, known as Rebco, to move to St. Petersburg by the end of 2007. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); MICROPROCESSORS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (57%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (58%); ENTERGY CORP (52%); DOW UNITED TECHNOLOGIES (50%); ALCOA INC (50%); BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (52%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



160 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Froth but No Bubble

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
MARC ANDREESSEN, the inventor of the first commercially viable Web browser and the co-creator of Netscape, finally has a blog. And he started this week with a splash: in his third post, he offered a harsh (for him) rebuttal of the spreading notion that there is a new Internet bubble forming, that Silicon Valley is overexuberant about ''Web 2.0,'' and that soon it will all come crashing down (blog.pmarca.com). 
 He offers this caveat: ''I'd be the last person to say that I never roll my eyes at the next start-up that's doing online Wiki-based, popularity-ranked, video-podcast, mobile, social, dating widgets for the dog and cat owner market.'' 
But buzzwords alone do not a bubble make, and Mr. Andreessen offers plenty of support for his argument that while there might be some froth there is always some froth -- that's the nature of innovative industries. 
 ''If you're going to call a bubble on the basis of lots of bad start-ups getting funded and failing,'' he writes, ''then you have to conclude that the industry is in a perpetual bubble, and has been for 40 years.''
 For the most part, he argues, the companies that are getting the most money and attention are those that deserve it. ''People laughed when Fox bought MySpace for $580 million,'' he wrote, but now, given its revenue growth, ''MySpace would probably be valued at between $3 billion and $5 billion.''
 Also setting the climate apart from the late 1990s bubble, he notes, is that there are not many Internet companies going public. ''For a theoretical bubble, that is just plain odd.''
 So why are there so many doomsayers? Mr. Andreessen blames evolutionary psychology. ''The human psyche seems to have a powerful underlying need to predict doom and gloom,'' he wrote. 
 The blogger Mark Evans posits another reason for the pessimism: weariness (markevanstech.com). ''It's been such a good time for so long in Silicon Valley,'' he writes, ''that people are tired -- tired of attending events night after night, tired of writing about the latest V. C. financing and Google acquisition, tired of being inundated with press releases and public relations campaigns.''
 FOOD FOR THOUGHT -- The Federal Trade Commission's decision this week to try to block the acquisition of Wild Oats Markets by its larger rival, Whole Foods Market, sent bloggers into speculation mode. Why, many of them wondered, would the F.T.C., which has green-flagged so many deals that seem more questionable, object to a relatively small merger in a highly competitive industry?
 The F.T.C. defines ''market'' in this case narrowly -- limiting it to ''premium natural and organic supermarkets'' and leaving out huge chains like Safeway and Wal-Mart, even though those stores are increasingly offering so-called natural and organic products (ftc.gov).
 Given such competition, ''the whole thing makes very little sense,'' wrote Felix Salmon on Portfolio magazine's Market Movers blog (portfolio.com).
 Perhaps. Or perhaps it makes perfect sense if the grocery lobby had something to do with it, or, as has been suggested, the F.T.C. is reacting to pressure from Congress. ''If so,'' Mr. Salmon wrote, ''this move could destroy quite a lot of shareholder value in the service of massaging a few political egos.''
 STEAL THIS LAPTOP -- The chief executive of a major book publisher swiped a couple of computers from Google's booth at a recent trade show. Really. And he not only admitted it, he bragged about it on his blog (charkinblog.macmillan.com).
 There was ''no sign saying 'please do not steal the computers,' '' Richard Charkin of Macmillan Publishers wrote. He contends that the ''theft'' was no worse than Google's Book Search Library Project, in which the company means to digitize the book collections of big libraries around the world to make them searchable online. 
 Publishers have protested, but never quite like this. Mr. Charkin stayed near the booth until Google's employees returned and noticed their laptops were missing, whereupon he returned them. 
 ''With our heist, we were merely doing to Google what they're doing to us,'' he told the Register (theregister.co.uk) DAN MITCHELL

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET BROWSERS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WEB 2 (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PODCASTING (78%); MERGERS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CATS (69%); PETS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); WFM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (50%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



161 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: With New Law, China Reports a Decline in Executions

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 8 

 BODY:
China, which puts more inmates to death than the rest of the world combined, is reporting fewer executions this year after reinstating a requirement that every death case be reviewed and approved by the country's highest court.
 Ni Shouming, a spokesman for the Supreme People's Court, said Friday that lower courts across the country were reporting declining numbers of executions, though he did not provide any specifics.
He told China Daily, the official English-language newspaper, that the national figures dovetailed with a recent survey of two lower courts in Beijing, which found a 10 percent drop in executions during the first five months of 2007. 
 Human rights experts have estimated that China executes 10,000 to 15,000 inmates a year. Beijing does not release official figures, which are designated as a state secret. 
 But in recent years, the government has come under increasing international and domestic pressure to improve its death penalty system. Cases of wrongful executions have incited national outrage.
 John Kamm, a human rights campaigner who has worked for years in China, said Chinese leaders were also motivated to put a better face on the system as the 2008 Olympics drew near. He estimated that executions had actually dropped sharply -- even by 40 percent -- in the six years since Beijing was chosen to be the host city for the Olympics.
 He said two informed sources in China had told him that about 7,500 people were executed in 2006.
 ''The Olympics is not the only reason,'' Mr. Kamm said in a telephone interview Friday from Hong Kong. ''When you execute somebody wrongly, and a lot of people have been executed wrongly, you are going to make a lot of people unhappy.''
 Mr. Kamm, director of the Duihua Foundation in San Francisco, which monitors cases of political prisoners in China, said he expected the number of executions to continue to decline now that the Supreme People's Court had reclaimed final authority. He said that lower courts would be forced to use greater discretion in applying the death penalty, and that the high court could return certain cases for retrial. 
 Mr. Ni, the high court spokesman, told China Daily that courts were already more conservative in applying capital punishment.
 ''The lower courts have to be more prudent now,'' Mr. Ni said. ''If a case is sent back for a retrial by the highest court, it not only means the first judgment is wrong, but also a matter of shame for the lower court.''
 China remains committed to capital punishment. Last year, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said the country had no plans to repeal capital punishment, noting widespread public approval of it.
 But the public has also increasingly demanded fairness from a system in which fewer than 1 percent of all criminal defendants are acquitted.
 Legal analysts in China note that the new authority assumed by the Supreme People's Court is not actually new. Before 1981, death penalty cases were reviewed by the high court.
 But Deng Xiaoping, then China's paramount leader, became so concerned about a nationwide crime wave that appeals in capital cases were shifted away from the high court and given to the provinces.
 The result was a fast-track criminal justice system. Capital defendants were tried in a lower-level court; their appeals were handled by the province's High Court; and then that same High Court handled the final reviews. 
 ''The problem was that the High Court was serving both as the appeals court and the final review of the case,'' said Keith Hand, a senior fellow with the China Law Center at Yale University. ''The chance that a court would reverse itself was very small.''
 Xiao Yang, chief justice of the Supreme People's Court, told state news media this year that China would ''never again'' grant such power to provincial courts. ''A case involving a human life is a matter of vital importance,'' Mr. Xiao said. 
 The Supreme People's Court regained its authority on Jan. 1. Legal scholars in China have predicted that executions may fall by 20 percent to 30 percent once the change is fully absorbed by the criminal justice system.
 Reformers, meanwhile, are trying to reduce the number of crimes eligible for death sentences. Currently, China has more than 60 capital offenses, ranging from murder to public corruption and economic crimes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ACQUITTAL (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



162 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Contractor Must-Have List: Hammer, Nails, License, Insurance

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ONE of the best pieces of advice any homeowner will receive when doing renovations or repairs is to use a licensed and insured contractor.
 I have offered this counsel myself. But I confess, I have also been guilty of using workmen who I'm pretty sure were unlicensed and perhaps did not even carry insurance because friends recommended them and because they were good and cheap.
I have preferred to play the ostrich with its head in the sand rather than check what kind of responsibility I might carry.
 And no wonder -- because a call to Jeanne Salvatore, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Information Institute, confirmed what I didn't want to know. 
 First of all, if the people doing the work in my house are uninsured and they get hurt, I'm responsible.
 ''One of the primary reasons you want to hire someone with insurance, is that it's not your problem,'' Ms. Salvatore said.
 We're not talking about someone who occasionally rakes your lawn or fixes a leak, but a worker who will be in your employ for a while. Each state or municipality has different laws for what an employee is and it is a good idea to check what the criteria are.
 If a worker is injured and sues you, then your homeowner's insurances should pay to defend you, ''just as someone who comes to your house and trips on a toy,'' Ms. Salvatore said.
 Homeowner's insurance generally pays $1,000 for injuries; beyond that, the person making the claim has to sue you through the insurance provider to collect more money, and if you lose a lawsuit, you may have to pay out of pocket if you exceed the limits of your policy, she said.
 Another option is to add on no-fault medical insurance, Ms. Salvatore said, which pays an additional $5,000 -- or sometimes more, depending on the policy -- for relatively little additional premium.
 If there is an injury in your home, there is a chance you could lose your insurance 
 ''Any homeowner who hires someone with no liability is taking their home into their hands,'' said Everett Collier, a certified remodeler and chairman of the board of the National Association of the Remodeling Industry, a trade association. ''There's a good possibility that insurance could cut you off because you didn't do due diligence.''
 To obtain a license in most states, a contractor must show that he has liability insurance or workers' compensation for his employees. And it is not the price of the license -- which may be just a few hundred dollars -- but the cost of the insurance, which can run into tens of thousands of dollars yearly, that helps create the huge underground network of unlicensed workers nationally.
 ''For example, if you're hiring a roofer, every dollar he pays to his employee, he has to pay $1 in workers' comp,'' Mr. Collier said. ''In other trades, it may be 30 to 40 cents on every $1.''
 Licensing requirements vary by state and even by city. Some states do not even require contractors to be licensed, while others, particularly California and Florida, have very strict regulations.
 According to the National Association of State Contractors Licensing Agencies, 13 states do not require licensing for residential contractors, although that is changing.
 ''More states are moving in that direction,'' said Angie Whitaker, managing director for the agency. ''Consumer boards are getting so many complaints and people are realizing there is no recourse.'' Texas is pushing for some sort of licensing board, she said, and the Oklahoma Legislature introduced rules during its last session to license residential contractors.
 The proposed law was held up in committee, however, said Patricia Schweitzer, deputy administrator with the Construction Industries Board in Oklahoma.
 ''We're hoping it will come out of committee next session,'' she said. Her board licenses plumbers, electricians and those who work with heat, air-conditioning and refrigeration, but has no say over contractors.
 ''We receive complaints all the time, and there's nothing we can do,'' she said.
 To check on the licensing situation in your state, go to www.nascla.org.
 Many states or municipalities that do require licensing now provide an easy method to research a contractor, often by simply typing in a license number on a Web site, usually through a state or local department of consumer affairs, to find out if any complaints are outstanding. Some states require that the license number be printed on every contract.
 Having a license is, of course, no guarantee that the contractor will do a good job or will even finish a project. But in many cases it offers assurance that the contractor has undergone a criminal check or taken a written exam -- and at least licensing can offer you the possibility of getting some of your money back.
 In New York City, for example, anyone you hire to do a job for under $200 is not required to be licensed. However, those who are licensed and doing work in the five boroughs must either post a performance bond or put $200 into a trust fund every time they renew their license. 
 That trust fund, said Dina Roskin, spokeswoman for the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs, is used as an incentive to get people to use licensed contractors. If a licensed contractor skips out on a job or botches it in some way, the homeowner can file a complaint with the department and collect up to $15,000.
 ''Home improvement jobs regularly are the top complaints we receive in this department,'' Ms. Roskin said.
 My friend Claudia, who admitted that she had hired unlicensed workmen to do some jobs, said she was worried about what recourse she had if the work was not up to par.
 ''It's always tempting to save money, but I don't really understand the implications of someone not having a license or insurance,'' she said. ''I envision my plumbing bursting after the fact and not being covered because a licensed plumber didn't do the work.''
 My sister, who lives in California, acknowledged that hiring an unlicensed worker ended up costing her some money.
 She used someone who did a good job helping construct an extra room in the backyard. But when it came to running electricity into a bathroom, he promised more than he could deliver.
 ''He said he could do the electrical work and then he couldn't,'' she said. ''It's great to save money, but then you don't have any clout -- you can't go to the Better Business Bureau and complain. And we spent more money redoing what he did.''
 Mr. Collier of the remodeling trade association, who works in California, said there was ''a huge underground economy, from backyard painters to full-blown contractors doing additions.''
 ''I've seen it time and time again: horribly botched jobs,'' he said.
 In some cases, a homeowner can sue the contractor even if he is unlicensed, but too often such workmen either disappear or have no assets, leaving you with dangling wires and holes in the wall.
 After hearing the horror stories, I think it is time to take my own advice -- next time we have a home renovation project, I'll check the license and insurance of the contractor.
 Then I'll cross my fingers, and hope it all comes in on budget.
 But that is for another column. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eduardo Miramontes, an electrician, right, and other tradesmen at work on a kitchen remodeling in El Cerrito, Calif.. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LITIGATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



163 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Narrowed A Bit in April

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The United States' trade imbalance with the rest of the world narrowed slightly in April, providing a tentative sign that less-lopsided trade could help lift the economy this year.
 With economic growth expected to be only about two-thirds the pace of last year, trade could be an important factor in keeping the economy from stalling, economists said. Growth has slowed in the United States, but economies in Asia and Europe are surging and snatching up more and more American exports.
The amount of goods and services sold to foreign countries increased in April by $247 million, to $129.5 billion, the Commerce Department said yesterday; imports fell by $3.6 billion, to $188 billion. 
 Those shifts put the trade deficit at $58.5 billion for the month -- $3.9 billion smaller than it was in March.
 To be sure, the trade deficit is still huge. For January through April, it was a cumulative $235.3 billion. But it is growing less rapidly, even after inflation is taken into account. In real terms, the deficit for the first four months of the year fell by 3 percent compared with the period last year.
 ''The big picture is we're seeing improvement,'' said Michael Carey, chief economist for North America with Calyon, who predicted that trade would add almost a point to growth in gross domestic product in the second quarter. ''That should help because we have other sectors of the economy that are not performing so well.''
 In the first quarter, trade subtracted a full point from the G.D.P., which expanded just 0.6 percent, the slowest in more than four years. While trade has occasionally aided growth for a quarter, it has not added to a full year's growth since 1995. 
 But growth overseas, helped by a weak dollar and slower domestic growth, should help pull the deficit tighter. Economists expect that trade will contribute -- if only slightly -- to the G.D.P. this year. (The dollar rose, however, to a two-month high against the euro in trading yesterday, driven in part by the trade report.)
 ''The weaker dollar and the buoyancy of demand overseas should boost United States exports,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist for Capital Economics. ''And slightly slower U.S. economic growth will help curb import growth. We are seeing it already a little.''
 There were some signs in the monthly trade report that consumer spending was cooling. The $3.6 billion drop in imports in April was concentrated in consumer goods, which declined by $1.5 billion. Imports of pharmaceutical products, electronics, clothing and jewelry all decreased. Imports of automobiles, auto parts and engines declined $1 billion.
 Businesses also pulled back on import spending, purchasing less telecommunications equipment, industrial machinery and building materials.
 Americans also imported less oil in April, according to the Commerce Department figures, but rising prices caused the overall value to rise.
 The price of imported crude oil jumped in April to $57.28 a barrel, from $53 a barrel a month earlier. That pushed up the value of crude oil imports to $17.5 billion, from $17.2 billion in March. But imports averaged about 10.2 million barrels a day, down from 10.5 million in March.
 Still, hugely imbalanced trade remains a problem, as the deficit with China showed. It stood at $19.4 billion in April -- by far the largest deficit with any single country. Last April, it was $17.1 billion.
 Economists said the growing deficit with China underscored just how difficult it will be for the United States to even out its trade relationship with the rest of the world. 
 ''About a third of the deficit comes from China,'' said Timothy Rogers, chief economist with Briefing.com. ''Unless you get some real progress there, it's unlikely you'll see a real turn.''
 Indeed, while trade is expected to improve this year, long-term improvement will be more difficult, economists said. ''It's something that's been there for quite a while, and something that's likely to last for quite a while. I don't think there's a quick fix.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A container is unloaded at Newark. The deficit is growing less rapidly, even after inflation is figured in. (Photo by Stephen Hilger/Bloomberg News)(pg. C9) Chart: ''Balance of Trade'' The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. April 2007 Imports: $187.98 billion Exports: 129.49 Balance: -$ 58.49 Graph tracks the amount of imports and exports, measured in billions of dollars, since 2006. Graph tracks trade deficit (12-month moving avg.) since 2006. (Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); EURO (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



164 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: For One Visit, Bush Will Feel Pro-U.S. Glow

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH; Tim Golden contributed reporting from Tirana, and Alan Cowell from London.

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania, June 8 

 BODY:
The highlight of President Bush's European tour may well be his visit on Sunday to this tiny country, one of the few places left where he can bask in unabashed pro-American sentiment without a protester in sight.
 Americans here are greeted with a refreshing adoration that feels as though it comes from another time.
''Albania is for sure the most pro-American country in Europe, maybe even in the world,'' said Edi Rama, Tirana's mayor and leader of the opposition Socialists. ''Nowhere else can you find such respect and hospitality for the president of the United States. Even in Michigan, he wouldn't be as welcome.''
 Thousands of young Albanians have been named Bill or Hillary thanks to the Clinton administration's role in rescuing ethnic Albanians from the Kosovo war. After the visit on Sunday, some people expect to see a rash of babies named George. 
 So eager is the country to accommodate Mr. Bush that Parliament unanimously approved a bill last month allowing ''American forces to engage in any kind of operation, including the use of force, in order to provide security for the president.'' One newspaper, reporting on the effusive mood, published a headline that read, ''Please Occupy Us!''
 There are, to be sure, signs that the rest of Europe is tilting a bit more in America's direction, narrowing the gap between ''old'' and ''new'' Europe that opened with disagreements over the Iraq war. 
 France's new president, Nicolas Sarkozy, wants to forget the acrimony that marked his predecessor's relations with the United States, even appointing a pro-American foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, who supported the United States' invasion of Iraq.
 Shortly after taking office, Chancellor Angela Merkel declared that Germany did ''not have as many values in common with Russia as it does with America.'' She has since proposed a new trans-Atlantic economic partnership that would get rid of many non-tariff barriers to trade.
 And Gordon Brown, who will succeed Tony Blair as Britain's prime minister this month, has vacationed several times on Cape Cod and befriended a succession of Treasury officials. He is expected to maintain what Britons call the country's ''special relationship'' with the United States, ahead of other American allies. 
 So ''old Europe'' has warmed toward the United States, although there has been no fundamental shift toward more American-friendly policies. But even in ''new Europe,'' as the post-Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe have been called, Albania is special.
 Much of Eastern Europe has grown more critical of Mr. Bush, worried that the antimissile defense shield he is pushing will antagonize Russia and lead to another cold war. Many Eastern Europeans, Czechs and Poles among them, are also angry that the United States has maintained cumbersome visa requirements even though their countries are now members of the European Union.
 But here in Albania, which has not wavered in its unblinking support for American policies since the end of the cold war, Mr. Bush can do no wrong. While much of the world berates Mr. Bush for warmongering, unilateralism, trampling civil liberties and even turning a blind eye to torture, Albania still loves him without restraint.
 Mr. Bush will be the first sitting American president to visit the country, and his arrival could not come on a more auspicious day: the eighth anniversary of the start of Serbian troop withdrawals from Kosovo and ratification by the United Nations Security Council of the American-brokered peace accord that ended the fighting. Mr. Bush is pushing the Security Council to approve a plan that would lead to qualified Kosovo independence.
 Albanians are pouring into the capital from across the region. Hotel rooms are as scarce as anti-American feelings.
 Albanians' support for the war in Iraq is nearly unanimous, and any perceived failings of American foreign policy are studiously ignored. A two-day effort to find anyone of prominence who might offer some criticism of the United States turned up just one name, and that person was out of the country.
 Every school child in Albania can tell you that President Woodrow Wilson saved Albania from being split up among its neighbors after World War I, and nearly every adult repeats the story when asked why Albanians are so infatuated with the United States.
 James A. Baker III was mobbed when he visited the country as secretary of state in 1991. There was even a move to hold a referendum declaring the country America's 51st state around that time. 
 ''The excitement among Albanians over this visit is immeasurable, beyond words,'' said Albania's new foreign minister, Lulzim Basha, during an interview in his office, decorated with an elegant portrait of Faik Konica, who became the first Albanian ambassador to the United States in 1926. ''We truly believe that this is a historic moment that people will look back on decades later and talk about what it meant for the country.''
 Mr. Bush's visit is a reward for Albania's unflinching performance as an unquestioning ally. The country was among the first American allies to support Washington's refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. It was one of the first countries to send troops to Afghanistan and one of the first to join the forces in Iraq. It has soldiers in both places.
 ''They will continue to be deployed as long as the Americans are there,'' Albania's president, Alfred Moisiu, said proudly in an interview.
 Most recently, the country has quietly taken several former detainees from the base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, off the Bush administration's hands when sending them to their home countries was out of the question. There are eight so far, and Mr. Moisiu said he is open to accepting more.
 Mr. Rama, Tirana's mayor, says he is offended when Albania's pro-Americanism is cast as an expression of ''provincial submission.''
 ''It's not about being blind,'' he said, wearing a black T-shirt emblazoned with the Great Seal of the United States. ''The U.S. is something that is really crucial for the destiny of the world.''
 The pro-American feeling has strayed into government-commercial relations. The Albanian government has hired former Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge as a consultant on a range of issues, including the implementation of a national identity card.
 Many people questioned the procedures under which a joint venture led by Bechtel won Albania's largest public spending project ever, a contract to build a highway linking Albania and Kosovo. President Moisiu said state prosecutors were now looking at the deal.
 In preparation for Mr. Bush's six-hour visit, Tirana has been draped in American flags and banners that proclaim, ''Proud to be Partners.'' A portrait of Mr. Bush hangs on the ''Pyramid,'' a cultural center in the middle of town that was built as a monument to Albania's Communist strongman, Enver Hoxha. State television is repeatedly playing a slickly produced spot in which Prime Minister Sali Berisha welcomes Mr. Bush in English.
 What Mr. Bush will get in return from the visit is the sight of cheering crowds in a predominantly Muslim nation. When asked by an Albanian reporter before leaving Washington what came to mind when he thought of Albania, Mr. Bush replied, ''Muslim people who can live at peace.''
 Albania is about 70 percent Muslim, with large Orthodox and Catholic populations. To underscore the country's history of tolerance, President Moisiu will present Mr. Bush with the reproduction of an 18th-century Orthodox icon depicting the Virgin Mary and baby Jesus flanked by two mosques.
 ''President Bush is safer in Albania than in America,'' said Ermin Gjinishti, a Muslim leader in Albania. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 9 about preparations for President Bush's visit to Albania misstated the position of Bernard Kouchner, the new foreign minister of France, before the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. Although he advocated removing Saddam Hussein from power with pressure from Europe, the United States and other countries through the United Nations, backed by a continuing military buildup, he did not support the war.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women passing the day at a park in Tirana, Albania, where the American and Albanian flags are on display in anticipation of President Bush's visit tomorrow. He will be the first sitting American president to stop by. (Photo by Visar Kryeziu/Associated Press)(pg. A7)
 Workers in Tirana, Albania, yesterday prepared the area in front of the ''Pyramid,'' a cultural center, for President Bush's visit tomorrow. (Photo by Hektor Pustina/Associated Press)(pg. A1) Map of Albania highlighting Tirana: The mayor of Tirana calls Albania ''the most pro-American country.'' (pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); APPROVALS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BERNARD KOUCHNER (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); GORDON BROWN (51%); TONY BLAIR (51%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TIRANA, ALBANIA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ALBANIA (99%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); KOSOVO (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



165 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: G-8 Leaders Reaffirm Promises of Billions to Battle AIDS and Other Diseases

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Elisabeth Rosenthal contributed reporting from Rome.

DATELINE: KUHLUNGSBORN, Germany, June 8 

 BODY:
Adjourning a meeting featuring some surprises and a less contentious tone than many expected, the leaders of the world's richest industrial nations pledged Friday to commit $60 billion for treatment of AIDS and other diseases in the developing world.
 The pledge, which is to extend over an unspecified number of years, includes aid already promised by the Group of 8 leaders, and a fresh commitment by the United States, which is contributing half the total. 
''We are aware of our obligations,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel, the host of the meeting, declared after a session with five African leaders. ''We would like to fulfill the promises we entered into.''
 The $60 billion pledge allowed the leaders to part on a unified note, after two days of discussing divisive issues like climate change, the future of Kosovo and the growing gulf between Russia and the West. But the announcement on Friday was condemned as inadequate by aid groups.
 Health groups were chagrined by the communique, which many felt was a ''huge step backwards,'' said Marcel van Soest, executive director of the World AIDS Campaign, an umbrella group based in the Netherlands. He said the world's richest countries had failed even to live up to the commitments they made at a Group of 8 meeting in Scotland in 2005. 
 ''All the good first steps, all the hope of 2005 seemed to go down the drain today,'' he said. 
 Outside the heavily fortified meeting site in the resort of Heiligendamm, crowds of protesters also dispersed peacefully, after two days of blockades and clashes with the police. A Greenpeace hot-air balloon was forced down by helicopters this morning, as the group tried to float it over the meeting.
 ''I believe we can say this has been a successful G-8 summit,'' Mrs. Merkel said, arguing that Germany had won ''far-reaching agreements'' on its main priorities, climate change and Africa.
 Still, critics said the commitment on third-world disease would fall far short of what was needed to combat AIDS, malaria or tuberculosis. They particularly noted the lack of a timetable for the delivery of the money.
 ''Without a time frame, no one can be held accountable,'' Mr. van Soest said. 
 In 2005, the leaders pledged to insure universal access to H.I.V. treatment by 2010. While the communique issued Friday still refers to ''universal access,'' it commits only to putting five million people into treatment ''in the next few years,'' said Tido von Schon-Angerer, of Doctors Without Borders. 
 Moreover, he noted, the leaders vowed to strengthen patent protection for goods like medicines. This means the inexpensive generics that treat so many people in poor nations could become less available or more costly.
 Mrs. Merkel inherited her focus on Africa from Prime Minister Tony Blair, who championed it at the meeting in Scotland. But as with her effort to reach an agreement on climate change, Mrs. Merkel faced resistance, notably from Japan, Italy and Canada.
 She was helped by an unlikely combination of the rock star Bono, the former rocker and now concert promoter Bob Geldof, and President Bush. The musicians turned up in Heiligendamm to press the leaders.
 President Bush last week called for Congress to commit $30 billion to AIDS treatment over the next five years, nearly double the current spending. The United States hoped this would prod other countries.
 Bono, who divided his time between the leaders and a concert for protesters in Rostock, the nearby Baltic city, said he was disappointed by the communique, saying it mixed references to treatment of diseases in Africa, and worldwide, to disguise the actual level of financing for Africa.
 ''I understand if they think rock stars can't add or subtract, or spell, or read,'' he said at a news conference. ''But some people around here can. This maze is designed to lose us. But we are not lost; the G-8 are lost.'' Mr. Geldof condemned the proceedings in earthier language.
 The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a multilateral group created to disburse the donations from the Group of 8 countries, said it was pushing for $6 billion to $8 billion a year for treatment -- a goal that would require somewhat more than the cumulative $60 billion.
 Still, Michel Kazatchkine, the executive director of the Global Fund, said in a statement, ''This is a strong G-8 agreement that makes it possible to defeat the pandemics of AIDS, TB and malaria.''
 The agreement on climate change, reached Thursday, has received better reviews, though critics note that the United States still refuses to accept mandatory reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
 On Friday, the group met with leaders from China and India to rally their support for deep emission reductions. Those fast-growing economies will account for the bulk of incremental emissions in coming years.
 In a joint statement with Mrs. Merkel, the leaders of the developing nations said, ''We remain committed to contribute our fair share to tackle climate change.''
 For Mrs. Merkel, who staked much political capital on achieving a climate deal, the meeting was largely successful. Officials of several countries, as well as advocacy groups, praised her performance.
 The subtext of this meeting may have been a changing of the guard. Mr. Blair, attending his final gathering, appeared nostalgic. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, at his first, was very much the rookie, bounding ahead of the others and chatting on his cellphone, to the amusement of his peers. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman recycling cans and bottles yesterday at what had been a protest site on a road near the Group of 8 meeting in Heiligendamm, Germany. (Photo by Axel Schmidt/Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MALARIA (77%); TROPICAL DISEASES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (72%); TUBERCULOSIS (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); PATENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (94%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOSOVO (76%); NETHERLANDS (70%); SCOTLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



166 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Nominee for Joint Chiefs Is Called a Pragmatist

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8 

 BODY:
By recommending Adm. Michael G. Mullen to be the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has chosen a low-key pragmatist without a well-established stake in the Iraq strategy to be the country's next senior military adviser.
 Unlike the two previous chairmen, Admiral Mullen, 60, was not in a top Pentagon post when the Bush administration made the decision to invade Iraq. Those who know him say that if confirmed as chairman, he has little reason to stick with a policy if he decides it is not working. 
''He will be pragmatic about Iraq,'' said retired Adm. Robert Natter, who described himself as a close friend. ''I know, because I've had long conversations about it with him.'' 
 Yet Admiral Mullen has seemed at least until now to share the basic assumptions of his predecessors about the way ahead in Iraq.
 Like them, he acknowledges that there is no purely military solution to the conflict and that it is up to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government to take political steps in coming months that will lead to political reconciliation among the country's Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds.
 Like Mr. Gates, he appears willing to give the current strategy at least until September to show signs of working.
 ''It is a matter of months that this surge is designed to apply,'' he said in a recent interview, noting that the White House had consulted the chiefs before adopting the new strategy. ''If there isn't political progress, if there isn't economic progress, the military isn't going to make this work.''
 His biggest challenge if the strategy shows signs of failure could be convincing Mr. Bush, who until now has resisted efforts by Congress to radically reduce the American military presence in Iraq.
 A Naval Academy graduate from Los Angeles who began his military career at the height of the Vietnam War, Admiral Mullen has long been one of the Navy's stars. He was given his first sea command while still a lieutenant -- a rarity -- and he went on to hold commands at sea and ashore, including deputy chief of naval operations. He also oversaw all NATO naval forces in Europe in 2004 and 2005.
 He earned two master's degrees, one in operations research from the Naval Postgraduate School and another from Harvard Business School. As chief of naval operations, Admiral Mullen has pushed to reverse the decline in the size of the Navy's fleet, which has shrunk to fewer than 280 ships, and to build new types of vessels for the unconventional conflicts the United States may face in coming years.
 Over the years, associates say, Admiral Mullen earned a reputation for mentoring young sailors as well as a fondness for military strategy.
 ''He could go between being a sailor and be just as comfortable thinking strategically about where the Navy should go,'' said Rear Adm. William Cobb, retired, who recalled serving with Admiral Mullen on a deployment to the Persian Gulf in the early 1980s, when tensions were running high with Iran over the seizure of hostages at the American embassy in Tehran.
 Although Admiral Mullen was appointed chief of naval operations by former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, those who know him say he chafed under Mr. Rumsfeld's management style. In particular, associates say, he felt Mr. Rumsfeld did not rely heavily enough on advice from the joint chiefs and rarely met with them as a group. That has changed under Mr. Gates, who usually meets once a week with the chairman and the service chiefs and with whom Admiral Mullen appears to have forged a close bond.
 ''I have become well-acquainted with Admiral Mullen over the past six months and believe he has the vision, strategic insight, experience and integrity to lead America's armed forces,'' Mr. Gates said Friday.
 Admiral Natter said he was not surprised that Mr. Gates had grown to rely on Admiral Mullen. ''They are both quiet professionals and they don't place their egos into any arguments or into any debates,'' he said.
 Mr. Gates seemed impressed by Admiral Mullen's ability to look beyond the interests of his own service. When asked recently by one of Mr. Gates's aides what he was most concerned about, Admiral Mullen replied that he was worried about the Army, which has been badly stretched by the requirement of fighting wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Gates told reporters.
 He added that Admiral Mullen had the ability ''to look to the future in terms of where we need to be 5 years from now or 10 years from now.''
 Those who have worked at senior levels at the Pentagon said Admiral Mullen had shown the independence needed in a chairman during meetings with civilian officials in the Pentagon conference room known as ''the tank,'' where the chiefs convene.
 ''I've seen him at several of the tank meetings stand up and say, 'Wait a minute. Is this really the best way to do this?' '' said Gen. Michael Hagee, the former Marine Corps commandant, who said he met Admiral Mullen when they were plebes at the Naval Academy in 1964.
 Admiral Mullen was visiting Annapolis when his selection was announced today.
 The initial reaction to the choice from key lawmakers in the Senate was positive.
 ''I think going in that Admiral Mullen is well-qualified,'' said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
 Admiral Mullen is married and has two sons. Both are Navy officers, and one of them recently returned from a tour as an aviator flying missions over Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); NAVIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



167 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Running G.E., Comfortable In His Skin

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''When you put your foot on the gas in this company,'' Jeffrey R. Immelt said a few weeks ago, with just the slightest trace of a satisfied smile, ''the car goes forward.''
 Mr. Immelt, 51, was leaning back in a chair in a conference room that adjoins his Connecticut office, his legs casually crossed, acting as if he didn't have a care in the world. He seemed utterly at ease, like LeBron James shooting a jump shot, or John Pizzarelli playing guitar.
Then again, Mr. Immelt always seems at ease. Never mind that as the chief executive of General Electric, a position he assumed a week before 9/11, he presides over one of America's most storied companies, an incomprehensively large industrial conglomerate that employs over 300,000 people, generated nearly $21 billion in profit on $163 billion in revenue last year and ranks sixth on the Fortune 500. 
 Never mind, too, that there were enormous expectations placed on him from the start: he won the job after a well-publicized bake-off with two other prominent G.E. executives, W. James McNerney Jr. (now the chief executive of Boeing) and Robert L. Nardelli (you know who he is, right?), while replacing perhaps the best-known businessman of the age, Jack Welch. He then had to deal with 9/11, with a power turbine business that fell off a cliff, with NBC's fall from first to last place in the ratings, and with the realization that the company's insurance business was under-reserved by $10 billion. 
 And never mind that once he got through that, he has spent much of his time reshaping the leadership culture within General Electric -- messing around with one of the things that G.E. does better than any other company in the world. And he's been making a series of very big bets, selling off parts of the company, while doubling down on others, with no guarantee that the profits he is seeking will ultimately be achievable. 
 Oh, and one other thing: the entire time he's been chief executive, the stock hasn't budged. (It closed yesterday at $37.32.) In April, Jeffrey T. Sprague, the Citigroup analyst, called for ''a partial breakup'' of G.E., arguing that the company's ''size and complexity is working against investor interest in the stock.'' During Mr. Welch's 20 years at the helm, G.E.'s stock had a staggering 7,000 percent total return, including dividends. If the company's share price doesn't start to rise soon, Wall Street is going to be agitating for more than a breakup.
 Mr. Immelt seems pretty much at ease about that, too.
 Let me put my cards on the table: I think Jeff Immelt is the prototype of the modern chief executive. And a large part of the reason is his unflappable personality.
 I've argued before that the age of the authoritarian C.E.O. is over, and that chief executives today need to have the whole range of ''softer skills.'' They need to be good listeners, consensus builders, ambassadors to the larger world, and leaders who others follow not because they have to but because they want to. 
 They need to be able to do really hard things -- change a strategic direction, sell a long-valued division, lay off employees -- with such a deft touch that nobody revolts. Informality is important. Charisma is important. Empathy is important. Admitting mistakes is important. The modern C.E.O. has to be, in sum, utterly comfortable in his own skin. These days that quality -- ''authenticity,'' the management gurus call it -- is what gives employees confidence in the boss, and makes them willing to ask ''How high?'' when he wants them to jump.
 Mr. Immelt has those qualities in spades. He is not a clone of the blustery, impatient Mr. Welch, just as Mr. Welch was not a clone of his predecessor, the statesmanlike Reginald H. Jones. But that's an amazing thing about G.E.: it has an uncanny talent for picking exactly the right leader for each different era. In its 128-year existence, it has had 10 leaders , and only one -- the founder Thomas Edison, of all people -- was a bust. Mr. Immelt's quiet charisma, his self-confidence and his ''emotional intelligence'' make him the right man to run General Electric in this era.
 Noel M. Tichy, the co-author of the coming book, ''Judgment: How Winning Leaders Make Great Calls,'' and a longtime G.E. watcher, spoke to Mr. Immelt not long after 9/11. Mr. Welch had made G.E. ''faster-moving and more entrepreneurial,'' the incoming C.E.O. said. ''But it doesn't have the heart it needs, and it doesn't have the context it needs. That is what I want to do in the next 20 years.''
 An advantage Mr. Immelt has is that he does indeed expect to stay in the job for 20 years; that's just the way it's done at G.E. Jack Welch used to say that it takes a C.E.O. five years to learn the job, and General Electric is the rare company that wants its chief executives to be around for decades in order to leave their mark. There isn't another C.E.O. in the land who has that luxury. Another advantage is that, as with every other General Electric chief executive, he's been there his whole career. He understands the company in his bones. And he loves it, to use his own words, ''completely and deeply.''
 For instance, the grooming of leaders has always been a core strength of General Electric. But as Mr. Immelt rose near the top of the G.E. ladder, he came to believe that the company focused too much on individual leadership traits and not enough on team skills. So he began the process of instilling a better team ethos. How do they do that at G.E.? They institute a process, first teaching the skills, then rating the performance of up-and-coming leaders, and finally promoting those who show the attributes the company cares about. It's a kind of enforced culture change, but somehow, at G.E., it works. 
 Mr. Immelt also felt that G.E. needed to do a better job at what is called ''organic growth,'' that is, growth that is not a result of acquisitions. So he had G.E. study companies that excelled at internal growth, like Apple and Toyota, quantified the qualities that those companies had in common, and began teaching them at General Electric. Now, Mr. Immelt has told Wall Street that he wants the company's organic growth rate to be 8 percent a year, twice what it used to be. 
 ''Eight percent may not sound like much,'' he says, ''but it means we have to grow the size of a company like Nike every year.''
 A statement like that one, delivered by someone else, might have a feeling of helplessness about it -- an admission that with $163 billion in revenue, the company is bumping up against the law of big numbers. But when Mr. Immelt says it, it is clear that he views it as an achievable goal. And that's because he has a tremendous belief in the power of large industrial conglomerates -- or at least his.
 You see, the way he views it, G.E. is operating in a gigantic world economy that is currently growing at a rate, more or less, of 4 percent a year. So ''all'' the company needs to do is grow at double the rate of the world's economy. And if he places the right bets -- if G.E. expands in the right countries, and focuses on the right sectors -- he is confident the company can pull it off.
 Hence, his decision, for instance, to stress global infrastructure and health care, both businesses that G.E. knows a great deal about already, and which are growing much faster than the other parts of the world economy. And thus perhaps his most controversial bet: to build a huge business around the environment. 
 ''The first time I brought the idea to the company's executive council,'' he said, ''there was rapt silence. Some people saw it as wimpy, caving into the enviros. But I saw that we already had two-thirds of the company working in some way on environmental technology, like water scarcity. And I thought it was worth a swing.'' 
 The day before I interviewed Mr. Immelt, I saw him speak to a group of G.E. customers. ''It was not universally loved by our customers and even less by employees,'' he told them, referring to the company's environmental thrust. ''I have made a couple of hundred mistakes in my business life, but this isn't one of them.'' From a standing start, the ecomagination line of General Electric products has become a $10 billion business, a number the company expects to grow to $20 billion within three years.
 Wall Street, of course, doesn't much care about the law of big numbers either. It just wants to see the stock go up. ''Yes, there is a mood of impatience,'' said David Bleustein, who follows General Electric for UBS. But Mr. Bleustein also told me that right now at least, he's buying what Mr. Immelt is selling -- and currently has a buy on the stock. ''More often than not, he's made the right moves,'' Mr. Bleustein said. From the Street's point of view, it's payoff time.
 Most C.E.O.s whose stock hasn't moved in five years would be in a world of trouble, of course. And Mr. Immelt is not going to get his 20-year run if he can't get the stock to move. But he's still got plenty of time to show that his repositioning is working; Wall Street may be antsy, but no investor is crazy enough to call for his ouster. And he's adamant that the solution is to wait for the market to catch up with the company's changing nature, rather than to execute a partial breakup just to please the Street. 
 ''Investors go through cycles where they don't like conglomerates,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''But if you want to be a lasting company, you have to know how to be a multibusiness structure. If Google is going to be a 100-year-old company someday, it is going to have to learn to do more than search.'' 
 At one point in our conversation, I asked Mr. Immelt how he balanced the need to be building consensus with the need to make a firm decision and, in effect, show who's boss. It struck me as a tricky issue, and it was clearly one he had thought about a lot. 
 ''When you run General Electric,'' he said, ''there are 7 to 12 times a year when you have to say, 'you're doing it my way.' If you do it 18 times, the good people will leave. If you do it 3 times, the company falls apart. You want a team of leaders who are self-confident. But in the end it is not a democracy. There has to be clarity about decisions.''
 Which helps explain why, if you're Jeff Immelt, you can put your foot on the gas, and that amazing $163 billion car goes forward. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey R. Immelt, chief executive of General Electric since 2001. (Photo by Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: ''A Tough Legacy to Follow'' In Jack Welch's more than 20 years at the helm of General Electric, the company's share price soared in value, mostly near the end of his tenure. His successor, Jeffrey R. Immelt, has been in charge nearly six years, and the stock has barely moved. But G.E. tends to have long-lasting chief executives, and the considerable changes Mr. Immelt has made may yet win over investors. JEFFREY R. IMMELT: -8% Became chief executive Sept. 7, 2001 JACK WELCH: +2,801% Chief executive April 1, 1981 to Sept. 6, 2001 Graph tracks G.E. stock price performance for the past 20 years. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BOEING CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (93%); JACK WELCH (89%); JAMES MCNERNEY (73%); LEBRON JAMES (70%); BOB NARDELLI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



168 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8 Warm Reception Expected For Bush Visit to Albania President Bush will be the first sitting American president to visit Albania. The country's support for the war in Iraq is nearly unanimous and it was one of the first allies to send troops to Afghanistan and one of the first to join the forces in Iraq. A1 Putin Elaborates on Missiles President Vladimir V. Putin offered suggestions for alternatives to a missile defense system in Europe, saying Russia would not object to American interceptor missiles in Iraq, Turkey or at sea, and proposed that Russia and the West study emerging missile threats together. A6 Report on Secret C.I.A. Prisons In a report, the lead investigator for the Council of Europe gave a bleak description of secret prisons run by the Central Intelligence Agency in Eastern Europe, with information he said was gleaned from anonymous intelligence agents, many of whom wanted to unburden themselves. 
A7 Separatist Arrested in Spain The Spanish police arrested Arnaldo Otegi, the leader of the political wing of the violent Basque separatist group ETA, according to an official from the National Court. The move signaled a new government crackdown after the group renounced a 15-month cease-fire. A4 A Syrian arms dealer was arrested in Madrid and charged in a plot to ship weapons--including C-4 explosives and surface-to-air missiles--to guerrillas in Colombia seeking to attack American forces serving there on antidrug missions, American prosecutors said. A4 Pakistan Lifts Media Strictures After a barrage of criticism and angry but peaceful nationwide protests by journalists and rights groups, the Pakistani government has suspended its restrictions on independent television stations. The restrictions were originally imposed by Gen. Pervez Musharraf last March. A7 Italy Prosecutes C.I.A. Agents A trial that charges American and Italian intelligence operatives with kidnapping a radical imam in 2003 opened in Milan, the first prosecution involving the contentious American policy of abducting terrorism suspects for interrogation elsewhere. A7 NATIONAL A9-13 Chairman of Joint Chiefs Will Not Be Reappointed The Bush administration said it had decided not to reappoint Gen. Peter Pace to a second term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, making him the highest-ranking officer to be a political casualty of the fight over Iraq. A1 Court Ruling is Criticized A decision by the Supreme Court earlier this week that made it easier for prosecutors to exclude from capital juries people who express reservations about the death penalty will produce whiter and more conviction-prone juries, experts in law and psychology said. A1 Paris Hilton Returned to Jail The national obsession with celebrity collided head-on with the more serious issue of the equal application of justice, as a judge sent the socialite Paris Hilton back to jail some 36 hours after she was released with an ankle monitor for an unspecified medical problem. A1 New Passport Rules Suspended The State Department and the Department of Homeland Security formally announced they were temporarily suspending new passport requirements for travel to neighboring countries. A9 Wave of Youth Suicide American Indian and Native Alaskan ages 15 to 24 are committing suicide at a rate more than three times the national average for their age group, according to the surgeon general. A9 Nominee Draws Criticism President Bush's nomination of Dr. James W. Holsinger Jr., a Kentucky cardiologist, to be surgeon general is drawing criticism from gay rights groups, physicians and lawmakers who are troubled by his opinions critical of homosexuality that he voiced as a high-ranking layman in the United Methodist Church. A11 A Smooth Shuttle Launching The shuttle Atlantis thundered off the launching pad into a stunningly clear evening sky on a mission to continue building the International Space Station. Already delayed for three months by a hailstormthat damaged the foam covering the shuttle's external tank, the launching was unusually smooth. A11 NEW YORK/REGION B1-5 Commuters Like Goal, Not Price, of Traffic Plan Commuters who would be affected the most by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's fast-advancing plan to charge $8 to drive in the most congested parts of Manhattan seem to agree on two points: that something desperately needs to be done about traffic and that they do not want to have to pay for it. B1 Citywide Tests May Pay A Harvard economist known for his work on racial inequality in schools is in New York with a big idea: pay students cash for high scores on standardized tests and their performance might improve. And he has captured the attention of Mayor Bloomberg and the chancellor of city schools. B1 Contractors in Name Only Gov. Eliot Spitzer is planning to step up enforcement against thousands of companies in New York that illegally misclassify workers as independent contractors to cheat on taxes and skimp on employee benefits, the state labor commissioner said. B1 Beliefs B5 OBITUARIES C10 Edwin Traisman A food scientist who helped standardize McDonald's French fries and develop Cheez Whiz for Kraft Foods, as well as researching the risks of E. Coli bacteria, he was 91. C10 ARTS B7-17 Trimming Classical Critics Classical music criticism, an endeavor that has been around at least as long as newspapers, has taken a series of hits in recent months. Critics' jobs have been eliminated, downgraded or redefined at newspapers around the country. B7 CBS Revives 'Jericho' The resurrection of ''Jericho'' after its cancellation by CBS reflected the efforts of thousands of fans who, because they regularly viewed the show on the Internet or through other nontraditional formats, might not have been counted in the familiar Nielsen television ratings. B7 BUSINESS DAY C1-9 Investors With School Ties Mutual-fund managers invest more money in companies that are run by people with whom they went to college or graduate school, a new study shows. C1 Popularity of Pickups Drops The popularity of pickup trucks is in decline, and as sales drop, rebates and other incentives climb. Among the culprits for the decline: a growing sense of environmental responsibility that has flared along with gas prices. C1 Summer Jobs Go Wanting The job market for summer work -- such as life guarding or selling hot dogs -- is strong. But many of the jobs are not filled as students seek out internships or positions that will provide training for a career. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A14-15 Editorials: A failure of leadership; nasty, unfinished cold war business; the road to somewhere; trans-Pacific chicken. Columns: Bob Herbert and Timothy Egan. Bridge B16 Crossword B15 TV Listings B17 Weather B18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); EXPLOSIVES (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ESPIONAGE (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VERDICTS (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); RANKINGS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (66%); JUDGES (66%); TERRORISM (64%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); COUNCIL OF EUROPE (56%); EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ALBANIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ITALY (79%); SYRIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



169 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: A Rare Case of Confident Consumers Disapproving of a President

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IT'S not the economy, stupid. It's the war.
 President Bush has now endured a string of low presidential approval ratings in polls longer than any president since Jimmy Carter. But consumer confidence has not plummeted during that period, and in fact is higher than it was during any recent period of presidential unpopularity. 
Lyndon B. Johnson is the only comparable president to have garnered very low approval ratings even as the economy did well and consumer confidence was strong. His poll ratings fell sharply as support for the Vietnam War faded. Mr. Bush's ratings have followed a similar course as Americans gradually concluded that the Iraq war was going badly.
 The Conference Board began polling Americans on consumer confidence in 1967, at first every other month and since 1977 every month. It reports attitudes about the current economy and expectations for the following six months, as well as an overall confidence rating that combines the two.
 The chart shows how the attitudes toward current conditions have fared during periods when the president's performance, as measured by Gallup polls, was approved by 40 percent or less of the electorate. The charts also show when the figure hovered around 40 percent and then fell back to that level, but exclude periods when a president's rating rose substantially, even if it then fell back to low levels. In months when more than one Gallup poll was taken, the chart show averages of all of them.
 To put the ratings in perspective, the chart also shows the average approval rating of each president in Gallup polls. As it happens, President Bush has one of the better averages, reflecting his high popularity in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The first poll after the attacks gave him a 90 percent approval rating, the highest for any president since Gallup began polling when Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the White House.
 The current consumer confidence figures show the public is much less enthusiastic about the future than about the present. Those figures are broadly consistent with other periods of presidential unpopularity, and are not shown in the graphic. It may be hard for people to be optimistic about the future when they think the president is doing a poor job, whatever the reason for the unpopularity.
 Every president from Mr. Johnson to the current one endured at least one period of low popularity. And while there sometimes were noneconomic reasons, ranging from Watergate under Richard M. Nixon to the Iranian hostage crisis under Mr. Carter, there were also economic woes when those presidents hit their nadirs of popularity.
 Mr. Johnson, however, is one of only three presidents since the Civil War to have served without any period of recession during his administration. (The others are Bill Clinton and James A. Garfield, who served for just six months before he was assassinated in 1881.)
 President Bush endured a recession in 2001, but it began so soon in his term that few blamed him for it, and consumer confidence early this year was at its highest level since the Sept. 11 attacks. But that has not helped his popularity, which has been at consistently low levels longer than any president since Mr. Carter. The latest Gallup poll, taken this month and not shown in the chart because there is no June consumer confidence data available, found that 32 percent approved of his performance, while 62 percent disapproved. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: When presidents have low public approval ratings -- less than 40 percent -- the public usually is also not very enthusiastic about current economic conditions. The only two presidents to show high consumer confidence ratings when they were unpopular are Lyndon B. Johnson and George W. Bush. Approval ratings of each president -- Periods when it was consistently at or below 40% approval Graph tracks the approval ratings for the following presidents: Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G.H.W. Bush Clinton G.W. Bush Consumer confidence of current economic conditions Graph tracks consumer confidence of current economic conditions during the following periods: AUG. '67 - OCT. '67 MARCH '68 JULY '68 - AUG. '68 JULY '73 - AUG. '74 JAN. '75 - MARCH '75 JULY '78 FEB. '79 - NOV. '79 APRIL '80 - DEC. '80 JAN. '83 - FEB. '83 JUNE '92 - OCT. '92 JUNE '93 AUG. '94 - SEPT. '94 NOV. '05 - MAY '07 Notes: Charts show opinions of current conditions, as reported by Conference Board survey of consumer confidence in months when Gallup poll approval ratings of presidents were at or below 40 percent. In months with more than one poll, figure shown is average of polls. In months with no poll, figure is average of prior and following month. Before 1977, consumer confidence surveys were taken every other month. Figures for intervening months are averages of months before and after. (Sources by Roper Center for Public Opinion Research
 Conference Board, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); STATISTICS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



170 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: What's in a Slur? A New Play Searches for Answers

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 8 

 BODY:
Lest anyone think that a play with three ethnic slurs in its title is going to dance around the subject of race and the limits of tolerable discourse, be advised that the bombshells are hurled from its opening moments:
 An Asian actor, dressed in blue Chinese pajamas, steps onstage chanting rhythmically, ''CHINK-chink-chink, CHINK-chink-chink.'' He is followed by a Latino actor, in flood pants and a do-rag, chanting the word ''Wetback,'' who is then followed by a strutting African-American actor in a floor-length red coat and feathered hat, chanting ''Nigger,'' over and over, in syncopation to the other slurs.
 To the uncomfortable laughter of the audience, the Asian actor, Allan Axibal, notes that he has now hurled his slur 270 times. 
 ''Man!'' replies the Latino actor, Rafael Agustin, ''You always have to overachieve.'' 
 Opening its first major run this week -- two months at the Ivar Theater in Hollywood -- the comedy, whose three-word title consists simply of those racial slurs, seems remarkably well timed to land in the middle of the national discomfort zone. 
 In the age of Don Imus and Michael Richards, in light of the renewed scrutiny of hip-hop lyrics and shock-jock blabbermouths, ''N*W*C,'' as it is called for short, examines the power of timeworn taboos, attempting to deflate them through a frontal, often funny, assault. 
 The timing, however, is something of a coincidence, since the play has been touring the country for about two years, mainly on college campuses, where the three principal actors and writers -- Mr. Agustin, Mr. Axibal and Miles Gregley -- have tested and honed their material from Seattle to South Carolina to upstate New York. 
 They are close friends, former debate team champions who together attended community college and then the University of California, Los Angeles, and who set out to tell the story of race in contemporary America through their own life experiences with intolerance, immigration and integration. 
 ''We said, 'Let's write about our own lives,' '' recalled Mr. Agustin, 26. ''We didn't know if it would be that interesting, but it's really resonated with people. There's nothing like winning over an audience in Kentucky who doesn't want to hear about the immigration debate.'' 
 The result, so far, has been its own social experiment, according to the authors, who find audience members lined up to share their views after performances. At the first show at U.C.L.A., picketers ended up joining the ticket line to see what the play was about. The police told them neo-Nazis had threatened one performance in Olympia, Wash., while the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People sent out fliers condemning their use of the ethnic slur against blacks at another one. 
 Meanwhile, mainstream newspapers and radio stations have refused to take advertisements for the Los Angeles run, because the title is a trifecta no-no. 
 So why create a play guaranteed to offend all along the racial spectrum? ''It's not the words that are painful, it's the racism behind them,'' said Mr. Axibal, a 25-year-old of Philippine origin, sitting with his two friends at a quiet cafe at the Hilton Hotel in San Francisco, where they had flown in to perform at a national conference on race relations. 
 Mr. Agustin added: ''These words substitute for our cultural identity -- 'I guess we're this' -- and then self-hate starts happening. It wasn't until I got to college that I started to appreciate my own culture.''
 Mr. Axibal said: ''If we've been called these words, then we have the right to confront them. That's what the show is about.'' 
 As the play suggests, they have been called those words. But the more painful aspects of racism had to do with the limits the outside world placed on them as talented young men with ambition and imagination who didn't define themselves by race. 
 In the case of Mr. Axibal, it was the dejection he felt when told he could never be like Tom Cruise because he was Asian; his mother sympathetically suggested he have ''the surgery'' to make his eyes look more Caucasian. (''More cauc, less Asian,'' he deadpans in the play.)
 In the case of Mr. Gregley, 28, who grew up among white kids in Baldwin Park, near Los Angeles, it was the ridicule he endured when he told friends he admired the singer George Michael of Wham! and wanted to be like him. Then, when he was sent to Atlanta for a year at 13, he realized he also had to adjust to fit in among other African-Americans. 
 ''It became: 'Am I black enough? Am I wearing my pants low enough?' '' he recalled. 
 And Mr. Agustin, a high achiever, was an illegal immigrant in this country for 14 years, which kept him from enrolling in the top California universities despite being accepted there. He eventually won a green card, which allowed him to transfer to U.C.L.A. 
 Oddly, the play originated in the more subtle racism of the entertainment world. When Mr. Agustin was a graduate student at U.C.L.A.'s School of Theater, Film and Television in 2003, he became frustrated when he was rejected repeatedly for leading parts in plays by Shakespeare and Tennessee Williams, directed by other students. 
 ''One director said: 'You're fantastic. There's this Latino play, you should audition for that,' '' recalled Mr. Agustin, whose father was a doctor in Ecuador who ended up working at Kmart after moving to this country for economic reasons. 
 Mr. Agustin complained to the faculty -- which, he says, reported back that the directors said they envisioned Brad Pitt-Jude Law types in the leading roles. He realized he would have to write something himself to showcase his talent. 
 He reached out for help from a mentor and former debate coach at Mount San Antonio College, the community college in tiny Walnut, Calif., where Mr. Agustin was a champion debater. The coach, Liesel Reinhart, and her boyfriend, Steven T. Seagle, helped shape the piece and suggested bringing in his former debate teammates, Mr. Axibal and Mr. Gregley. 
 At the time Mr. Gregley was doing stand-up comedy in his spare time, while Mr. Axibal was doing slam poetry in his. ''The three of us sat down together one day and had a simple conversation about how we felt about the state of things,'' Mr. Agustin recalled. 
 Mr. Axibal said: ''We started telling each other the things we went through. Even as close friends, these were things that we never knew about each other. We'd all had experiences with these words.''
 Over two years of performance in 24 states, ''N*W*C'' has shifted and evolved with practice and experience. They have added a Michael Richards joke. They have closely watched the immigration debate. They have had a white supremacist tell them their play changed his point of view. 
 They hope one day to bring the show to Broadway or parts nearby, and to spin it into a television show. Their attempt to write their way into a career has been a success, but it has also become a mission of sorts. 
 ''People say to us: 'You can't stop doing this. You have to keep going,' '' Mr. Gregley said. 
 Mr. Agustin chimed in: ''We think, 'The N.A.A.C.P. and the neo-Nazis are ticked off at us? We sure are bringing people together.' '' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Allan Axibal, Miles Gregley and Rafael Agustin onstage. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (86%); THEATER (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (60%); RAP MUSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



171 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Antiquities Trial Fixes on Collectors' Role

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

DATELINE: ROME, June 8 

 BODY:
It was a ''sophisticated method of laundering,'' a prosecution witness testified on Friday in a trial courtroom here. Private collectors would acquire looted artifacts and eventually donate them to museums, she said.
 The witness, Daniela Rizzo, an Italian archaeologist, specifically cited the owners of four American antiquities collections.
None are on trial here. None have been legally charged with any wrongdoing. Nor do Italian prosecutors contend that the collectors had evidence that certain objects had been looted. Yet the prosecutors have clearly adopted a strategy of calling attention to collectors, especially well-heeled Americans, with the implicit message that every player in the global antiquities trade is within their sights. 
 The actual trial defendants are Marion True, a former antiquities curator at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, and Robert Hecht, an American dealer in classical artifacts. Both are charged with trafficking in objects that were illicitly excavated from Italian soil.
 Dozens of witnesses have filed through the courtroom since the trial opened in November 2005, but only this month did prosecutors fully turn their sights on American antiquities collectors in court testimony. The tactic has infuriated defense lawyers, whose objections became so heated on Friday that Judge Gustavo Barbalinardo decided to suspend the proceedings until tempers cooled. 
 In her testimony Ms. Rizzo said that the ''very rich'' private collectors built collections that ''included objects that were undoubtedly looted from Italy.'' 
 She cited the Texas oilmen Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt (who sold their artifacts at auction in 1990 after their fortunes collapsed); the New York diamond merchant Maurice Tempelsman; the art philanthropist Lawrence Fleischman and his wife, Barbara; and the financier Leon Levy and his wife, Shelby White. 
 Objects from their collections went on display in major exhibitions, ''becoming known to the public and the scientific world, after which they ended up in museums,'' Ms. Rizzo said. ''It was a different, more sophisticated method of laundering artifacts.'' 
 Defense lawyers for Ms. True and Mr. Hecht repeatedly interrupted Ms. Rizzo's testimony; Francesco Isolabella, a lawyer for Ms. True, objected that it was beyond Ms. Rizzo's mandate to ''come up with inductive or deductive theories.'' Mr. Isolabella said that the archaeologist was making ''evaluations that only a prosecutor can make.'' 
 ''She should stick to identifying Etruscan vases,'' Mr. Isolabella said. 
 Because they are not on trial, none of the collectors are represented in the courtroom. Contacted through their offices, Nelson Bunker Hunt and Mr. Tempelsman declined to comment on the trial or to be interviewed. Through a spokesman, Ms. White declined to comment on the trial. (Her husband died in 2003.) In a telephone interview from New York, Ms. Fleischman said: ''It seems like anyone can accuse anyone of anything without any proof. We collected for the pure joy of the object.'' She declined to comment further on the trial. But she said that she and her husband, who died in 1997, never suspected that they might be buying anything less than legitimate. 
 Ms. Fleishman, a former Getty trustee, and her husband donated or sold more than 300 antiquities to the Getty. Italy's Culture Ministry is demanding that the museum return a dozen of the Fleischman objects.
 It seems inevitable that as prosecutors began investigating the passage of objects from looted tombs in the Italian countryside to American institutions, they would become interested in private donors, long the lifeblood of the world's museums.
 A report this year by the Association of Art Museum Directors, which represents nearly 200 museums in the United States, Canada and Mexico, notes that ''more than 90 percent of the art collections held in public trust by American's art museums were donated by private individuals.'' 
 Beyond altruism, the economic benefit for collectors in the United States is a tax deduction equal to the current market value of the object. This deduction can save the donor 25 to 50 percent of the object's value, depending on what method is used. In return, museums short of funds can aspire to top-rate works of art.
 ''There's every reason to think that a museum would bring an item it can't afford to the attention of a collector, hoping for a donation,'' said Patty Gerstenblith, a law professor at DePaul University and president of the Lawyers' Committee for Cultural Heritage Preservation. 
 At the same time, she said, ''it helps to distance the museum from a questionable piece.'' There is less risk of public disapproval should a museum be forced to return a piece that arrived as a donation, she said. 
 For at least the past decade, though, Peter C. Marzio, director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston and a past president of the Association of Art Museum Directors, said, both collectors and museums have been conducting ''diligent provenance inquiries'' on artifacts that change hands. 
 He cited an auction on Thursday at Sotheby's in New York where a 2,000-year-old bronze statue of Artemis sold for $28.6 million, a world record for sculpture and for an antiquity. 
 ''Provenance is what is driving prices up,'' Mr. Marzio said. ''Provenance is having enormous value.'' The Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo acquired the Artemis from a Manhattan dealer in 1953, well before the adoption of a 1970 Unesco convention governing traffic in cultural property. 
 During a courtroom break, Mr. Hecht, the dealer on trial here, scoffed at the notion of a collector like Ms. White having an economic incentive for donating to a museum. ''The last thing Shelby Levy White needs is a tax deduction,'' Mr. Hecht said. She ''really liked and learned about every piece she bought.'' 
 Running parallel to the trial is the Italian Culture Ministry's dogged effort to lay claim to what it contends are looted objects in American museums. Last year it negotiated the return of 21 antiquities from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and 13 from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
 Talks with the Getty have faltered. Italy is seeking the return of 52 objects over all from that museum, among them a dozen donated by Ms. Fleischman. So far the Getty has agreed to return 26 artifacts to Italy, including 5 acquired from the Fleischmans and three pieces purchased from Mr. Tempelsman.
 In an interview Paolo Ferri, the trial prosecutor, asserted that American collectors might one day find themselves at the defense table. 
 Once a verdict is delivered in the trial of Ms. True and Mr. Hecht, he said, ''I'll draw my conclusions.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (91%); WITNESSES (91%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



172 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: The Bottom Line: Sheffield Is Right To Speak Out

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The quality that most sports journalists respect about Gary Sheffield -- even if it makes us uncomfortable -- is his candor. I learned long ago that if you don't want to know the answer, you don't ask Sheffield the question.
 Sheffield, with a new team, the Detroit Tigers, and with a new book, ''Inside Power,'' is baseball's bull in the china shop. This week, he put a controversial twist to the continuing issue of the African-American disappearing act in Major League Baseball. 
He spent most of the week responding and not responding to comments he made in an article in GQ magazine to the effect that Latino players are more desirable to major league teams because they are easier to control than African-American players.
 Sheffield's choice of the word control was harsh. There is a malaise among athletes in general in terms of challenging the status quo. But at a time when immigration is a searing topic, Sheffield raised a crucial issue about a delicate subject: the competition for jobs between African-American and Latino players in Major League Baseball. 
 ''Baseball has a choice of which black faces it wants representing baseball,'' Sheffield said Thursday during a telephone interview. ''They're choosing Latinos. What I was saying is that they're choosing them because they can sign them for $2,000 and if they don't take it, what do they have to do? They got to go back to where they're from and they got to eat hot dogs for dinner.'' 
 Sheffield wasn't being anti-Latino, but simply advocating nurturing homegrown talent. Major League Baseball has the resources to mine phenomenal players from South America and the Caribbean while developing African-American players. 
 Everybody knows the numbers by now: Only 8.4 percent of major league baseball players are African-American, according to an annual report by the University of Central Florida's Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sports. The report showed that 29.4 percent of players last season were Latino. 
 Citing baseball's Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities program, Sheffield said it had ''been around for years, but you see more kids coming out of the academies in the Dominican Republic and not out of R.B.I.'' 
 This isn't entirely correct. Since 1989, the program has produced a number of professional players. The program is in 165 communities serving 120,000 youths in urban America.
 Jimmie Lee Solomon, Major League Baseball's executive vice president for baseball operations, said that there were two academies in the United States -- one in Compton, Calif., and the other in Atlanta. The academies, which are run by Major League Baseball, are geared toward inner-city youths. 
 But many major league teams have built academies in South America and the Caribbean. Solomon helped make Sheffield's case that the popularity of Latino players is largely part of an economic imperative that makes them more appealing than African-American players. 
 ''The reason that the academies were put there is basically economic,'' Solomon said yesterday. When a major league team develops a player in Latin America, that player is not subject to baseball's draft. ''When a club builds an academy in the Dominican Republic and signs a bunch of players, those players belong to that club and they can sign all those players,'' Solomon said.
 They often are signed for less than their counterparts in the United States. Baseball's draft, which began Thursday, gives American-born players -- black and white -- a higher price tag. Just about every player in the United States is going to have an agent, and every agent is going to know the economics of his clients' draft position. 
 ''We have choices,'' Sheffield said, referring to African-American players. ''We're in the draft where you have to pay us, you don't have to pay them -- why do you think they sign them underage? It's like, I'm going to find the cheapest worker.''
 Again, Solomon doesn't disagree. ''When you go to Latin America, you can sign kids usually for a lot less, because they didn't go through the draft process,'' he said.
 In fact, the journey to the major leagues for Latin American players, and the journey of aspiring African-American players, is a precarious one. While the aspiring young African-American player finds it extremely difficult to enter the baseball pipeline, large numbers of aspiring young Latino players learn the game in the sports academies operated by major league teams. 
 But, as Solomon points out, these baseball factories are rigorous, and it is a major accomplishment to make it out of the academy and reach the minor leagues.
 For all the controversy surrounding Sheffield's statement in GQ, the larger issue is that the Latino presence in baseball is 29 percent. Arturo Moreno, who owns the Los Angeles Angels, is the only Latino owner of a major sports franchise in the United States. 
 There is a critical mass that should begin making its presence felt in the dugout and in the front office. There should be collaboration, not competition, between Latino and African-American players. ''Latin players go through the same thing as black players,'' Sheffield said. ''There's no difference.'' 
 Gary Sheffield, baseball's bull in a china shop, has indelicately brought attention to a delicate subject. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); ETHICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); ANNUAL REPORTS (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (60%); IMMIGRATION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (77%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (57%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



173 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Pay For Top Scores On Some Tests Gains Ground

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Roland G. Fryer, a 30-year-old Harvard economist known for his study of racial inequality in schools, is back in New York to again promote a big idea: Pay students cash for high scores on standardized tests and their performance might improve. And he has captured the attention of Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Across the country, educators have been experimenting with cash incentives. A program in Chelsea, Mass., gave children $25 for perfect attendance. Some Dallas schools pay children $2 for each book they read. 
But the idea is controversial. Many educators maintain, among other objections, that children have to learn for the love of it, not for cash. 
 Until now, Professor Fryer's idea of cash for performance has had no serious takers. Three years ago, he tried to implement a pilot program in New York City charter schools that would have given students cash in exchange for good test scores. 
 ''They kicked us out,'' Professor Fryer said of the schools that first considered the program. And some Department of Education officials were not enthusiastic, either, he said. ''They laughed in my face.''
 But Mr. Bloomberg has recently shown interest in using payments, raised from the private sector, as a way to change behavior and reduce poverty. 
 In September, he proposed giving cash to poor adults to encourage them to do everything from keeping their children in school to seeking preventive medical care. And so, he said yesterday at a news conference, he was receptive to Professor Fryer's idea. ''If we aren't looking at everything,'' he said, ''shame on us.'' 
 This week, Professor Fryer met with a group of school principals who are considering participating in his incentives program. Information about the program was first reported yesterday in The Daily News.
 Education Department officials said that putting the program into effect has a long way to go. ''We are still at a preliminary stage,'' Debra Wexler, a department spokeswoman, said yesterday. ''Neither the mayor nor the chancellor have approved any program details.'' 
 Professor Fryer said that under his program, fourth graders and seventh graders who take the new round of mandatory standardized tests that the city is introducing in the fall would be rewarded with at least $5. They would get more money for high scores, with a cap of $25 for fourth graders and $50 for seventh graders. In addition, each participating school would receive $5,000.
 Money for the payments will come from private backers, Professor Fryer said, because there would be no public money available for them.
 The prospect of cash introduced into the classroom has made some local educators uneasy.
 ''It makes me really nervous,'' said Maggie Siena, the principal of Public School 150 in TriBeCa. ''I suspect paying kids for achievement in any way tends not to work.''
 Ernest Logan, the president of the principals' union, also expressed concerns. ''We are troubled by additional pressure being placed on children to achieve perfection,'' he said. ''What really matters in education is continued student progress, not perfect test scores.''
 Professor Fryer and other educational scholars have argued that some children, especially those from impoverished backgrounds, lack the foresight and role models to be self-motivated. 
 ''The fundamental problem with education and motivating kids to learn what they need to learn is that the payoffs are so distant,'' said Tom Loveless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a left-leaning research organization. ''So it's very hard to motivate students to do well. Good students get that motivation from somewhere -- from peers, their parents, how they're raised -- but the kids who are unmotivated have a very hard time understanding that what they do today pays off decades from now.''
 Eric Nadelstern, the chief executive of the school system's empowerment initiative -- which gives principals more autonomy to run their schools -- lauded Professor Fryer in a recent e-mail message to principals. ''He has my enthusiastic support,'' Mr. Nadelstern said. ''I encourage you to give the program serious consideration.''
 Professor Fryer, who is black, has explored racial issues in education extensively. He has written studies on the gap in test scores between black children and white children, the economic effect of ''acting white,'' how the mental ability of young children differs by race, and the causes and consequences of attending historically black colleges and universities.
 Professor Fryer, on his Web site, americaninequalitylab.com, calls the program ''Incentivising: An Experiment in NYC Public Schools.''
 In a near-empty cafeteria at Frank Sinatra High School of the Arts in Queens on Wednesday, Professor Fryer promoted the plan to a dozen principals with an informal speech about poverty, the test score gap, his professional experience and personal history and his grandmother's suggestions for the plan.
 He persuaded at least one principal to change her mind about the program. ''Prior to going into the meeting, I wasn't in favor of it,'' said Crystal Simmons, the principal of the Academy for Social Action in Harlem. ''But now I think it could work if it is established in the right way. There should be some financial-literacy element, for instance.''
 After the meeting, Professor Fryer said in an e-mail message to the principals that more than half the available spots in the proposed incentive program had been filled.
 Mr. Loveless of Brookings said that though cash-incentive programs tend to make people uneasy, he believed the proposal was worth considering. ''I would take it seriously,'' he said. ''I don't think we should let our queasiness over directly awarding kids with cash prevent us from experimenting. We need to find out if this works or not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



174 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Investigating Mislabeling Of Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer is planning to step up enforcement against thousands of companies that illegally misclassify workers as independent contractors to cheat on taxes and skimp on employee benefits, the state labor commissioner said yesterday.
 The commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, said the Spitzer administration was focusing on misclassification because it costs the state a significant amount in unemployment insurance taxes and workers' compensation premiums while denying many workers overtime pay.
''We are developing a plan to address this law-breaking practice, which has been left unchecked for 12 years,'' Ms. Smith said. She refused to disclose details because the administration has not finished developing the enforcement plan. 
 In February, researchers from Cornell University issued a report saying that 704,000 of the seven million private-sector workers in New York State were misclassified as independent contractors and that as a result the state was being shortchanged $175 million in unemployment insurance taxes each year.
 Under the state's definition, independent contractors are not employees but are considered to be in business for themselves; employees are those hired to accomplish specific tasks as employers closely supervise their work and decide the hours, pace, place and nature of their labor. 
 When workers are classified as independent contractors, employers do not have to pay unemployment insurance taxes, workers' compensation premiums or the employer's portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes -- typically 7.65 percent of wages. In addition, independent contractors do not have a right to unionize and are exempt from minimum wage and overtime protections, as well as from most discrimination and occupational safety laws. They also do not usually receive the health and pension benefits that other workers receive. 
 ''Misclassification is clearly a major problem in New York State, as it is nationally,'' said Fred B. Kotler, one of the writers of the Cornell study and associate director of the construction industry program at the Cornell School of Industrial and Labor Relations. ''It is a problem not only for the workers who get cheated, but it's a problem for the state's business climate. It creates an unlevel playing field because some companies are taking unfair advantage.''
 When workers are wrongly classified, the state and federal governments also lose because the employer does not withhold employee income taxes.
 After reviewing audits by state agencies, the Cornell researchers -- Mr. Kotler, Linda H. Donahue and James Ryan Lamare -- concluded that more than 39,500 employers misclassified workers each year.
 The Cornell study found that misclassification is especially prevalent in the construction industry, concluding that 15 percent of the workers there are improperly classified. In explaining the high rate, the study noted that the construction industry is fiercely competitive, its profit margins are often slim, workers' compensation costs are high and many workers are employed for only a short time.
 ''We're most concerned about the problem in the construction industry right now, all around the state,'' Ms. Smith said.
 In a report issued in April, the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-backed research group, estimated that nearly one-sixth of New York City's workers in the residential construction industry were misclassified as independent contractors.
 When Mr. Spitzer was the state's attorney general, he acted vigorously against several companies that misclassified workers. He brought enforcement actions against two supermarket companies, Gristedes and Food Emporium, as well as their delivery companies. 
 The companies said their grocery deliverymen did not have to be paid minimum wage or overtime, under the theory that they were independent contractors and not employees. Each supermarket company settled for $3 million. Mr. Spitzer also took action against several well-known Manhattan restaurants and a company that provided them with bathroom attendants, accusing them of misclassifying the attendants as independent contractors and sometimes paying as little as $2.14 an hour, well below the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour. 
 ''Common sense tells you that low-wage workers are employees, but we're increasingly seeing that employers misclassify them as independent contractors, whether it's janitors, day laborers, delivery drivers or bathroom attendants,'' said Annette Bernhardt, deputy director of the poverty program at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University.
 In a forthcoming report about inadequate protection for low-wage workers in New York City, the Brennan Center found that one of the major problems those workers face is misclassification.
 One of Mr. Spitzer's concerns is that when the state's Labor Department, Workers' Compensation Board or tax department found that a company had misclassified workers, it did not notify other agencies.
 Sharing some of the same concerns, Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey announced a plan last summer to battle misclassification. As part of that effort, the New Jersey Treasury Department and Labor Department adopted a unified definition of an employee and began holding quarterly meetings to coordinate their enforcement.
 Each year New Jersey's Labor Department audits about 2 percent of employees, and in 2005 it found more than 26,000 misclassified. The state estimated that this resulted in $5 million in unpaid taxes. 
 As part of the New Jersey enforcement effort, state officials found that a national package delivery company was routinely misclassifying drivers.
 To minimize the practice, the Cornell study urged New York State's government to conduct high-profile enforcement actions and to clarify its definitions of employee and independent contractor. The report also urged New York to do what a three-year-old Massachusetts law does: create a presumption that every worker is an employee, unless demonstrated otherwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); MEDICARE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



175 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Privacy Is an Issue For Critics Of Cameras

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
With the mayor's congestion-pricing plan gaining political support, some critics said yesterday that the network of several hundred cameras that would be installed on the streets of Manhattan could be too intrusive. 
 The cameras, which would record the license plate numbers of all vehicles that pass them, would be installed in 340 locations below 86th Street, said John Gallagher, a spokesman for the mayor.
They would be the eyes of the billing system, which would charge drivers of cars $8 a day for entering the zone and $4 a day for driving within it, according to the mayor's plan. Drivers of commercial trucks would pay $21 to enter the zone and $5.50 to drive within it. 
 Richard L. Brodsky, a Democratic assemblyman from Westchester, estimated that the plan would require about 1,000 cameras and expressed concern that such widespread monitoring would violate people's privacy. 
 During a hearing in Midtown yesterday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg dismissed such worries, saying people who harbored them were not ''being terribly realistic.'' He pointed out that there were cameras pointed at the streets and sidewalks from buildings and bridges all over the city.
 Noah Budnick, deputy director for advocacy at Transportation Alternatives, a group that supports the mayor's plan, said he believed the civil-liberties complaint ''is just a red herring.''
 ''If they have a problem with this, then they should have a problem with the thousands of cameras that are photographing them on the streets of New York every day,'' Mr. Budnick said.
 The city's Department of Transportation has more than 30 cameras monitoring the flow of traffic in the zone. It also has about 100 cameras poised to capture the license plates of cars that run red lights at intersections throughout the city, said Ted Timbers, a spokesman for the department.
 Mr. Timbers said the department would not disclose the locations of those red-light cameras or say how many are within the congestion-pricing zone. But the two networks of cameras would be separate, so there likely would be intersections under the watch of both types of cameras.
 The plan to charge for moving within the zone has raised questions about whether Manhattanites would have to pay $4 every time they suffer through the ritual of moving their cars to comply with alternate-side parking rules. 
 Mayor Bloomberg and Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, have repeatedly reassured audiences that city officials will figure out a way to exempt such movements, probably by allowing free passage within a few blocks.
 ''I don't think that's an unsolvable issue; it's just going to take some really smart software,'' Mr. Budnick said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITIES (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007



176 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-10-07: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Payback Time

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics.'' More information on the research behind this column is online at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The Cash-Back Mortgage
 Imagine for a moment that you are looking to buy a first home for yourself, your spouse and your 1-year-old darling. Now imagine that you are doing this in Italy.
The housing market in Italy is quite different from ours. It's harder to get mortgage credit, and you can typically borrow only 50 percent of the purchase price. Moreover, the loan might have to be repaid in just 10 years. So before buying your first house, you'll probably have to spend a lot of years saving up your salary for a down payment. As a result, you may well end up living with your parents (or -- gulp -- your in-laws) until you are deep into your 30s.
 In the United States, meanwhile, mortgage credit flows like milk and honey. By putting down just a fraction of the purchase price, you can move your family right in, with 30 years to pay off the mortgage.
 But what if you can't scare up the cash for even a small down payment? Without it, you fall firmly into the category of what are now infamously known as subprime borrowers. There are plenty of options for subprime customers, but most of those options, as noted in the small type on the contracts the borrowers sign, aren't very good. 
 As is the case with any worthwhile goal, some people employ the most time-honored solution for getting what they don't quite deserve: they cheat. In some cases, the cheating involves an illegal sleight-of-hand maneuver known as the cash-back transaction. As one of the trickiest forms of mortgage fraud -- there are many others -- the cash-back transaction is hardly unknown among real estate insiders, but it has largely escaped academic scrutiny. Until now.
 Itzhak Ben-David, a Ph.D. candidate in finance at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, fell into the subject while pursuing a drier one: the degree to which housing prices efficiently incorporate anticipated tax increases. (Disclosure: one of this column's authors, Steven Levitt, sits on Ben-David's dissertation committee.) A 36-year-old Israeli, Ben-David had served for four and a half years in the Israeli Army, studied industrial engineering and accounting and worked at a real estate company in Britain. He thought he knew pretty well how the world operated. But as he immersed himself in Chicago real estate for his dissertation research, he came to wonder how well he and his fellow academics truly understood the market.
 For instance, as he interviewed mortgage brokers, real estate agents and bank loan officers, he heard regular mention of a mysterious kind of deal in which the seller gave the buyer a cash rebate without noting this transaction in the mortgage paperwork. (It is illegal for buyers and sellers to transfer cash or assets without properly notifying the lender.) Of course, none of the people that he interviewed copped to this practice. But sometimes the signs of a cash-back transaction were, quite literally, out in the open for all to see, on banners hanging from for-sale properties or in printed real estate ads.
 How does this kind of deal work?
 Pretend that you want to buy a house that costs $200,000 but don't have $20,000 to make the 10 percent down payment that would get you a decent mortgage. The seller's real estate agent offers a solution: let's make the official purchase price $220,000 instead of $200,000, he says -- but in return, the seller will give you $20,000 in cash. This rebate will be a separate transaction, the agent explains, which doesn't need to be written into the mortgage paperwork. (A seller can legally offer a cash-back incentive, but it would have to be reported to the bank -- which would negate the advantage of having the bank think that the buyer already has the cash.)
 Voila! Suddenly you have the $20,000 in cash necessary to get a good mortgage, and the seller still nets his original price of $200,000. The only difference is that the bank records the sale of the house at an inflated $220,000. And, instead of borrowing 90 percent of the value of the house, you have in fact borrowed 100 percent. ''In short,'' Ben-David writes, ''a buyer can purchase the property with no down payment.''
 It was all well and good for Ben-David to have learned, anecdotally, how cash-back transactions work -- but how could he isolate such behavior in the data? Since the transactions were illegal, they wouldn't be recorded. So using the data from nearly 300,000 Chicago-area home sales, he began to play detective, seeking out telltale signs of the scam.
 First he built a dictionary of 150 keywords in real estate ads -- ''creative financing,'' for instance -- that might signal a seller's willingness to play loose. He then looked for instances in which a house had languished on the market and yet wound up selling at or even above the final asking price. In such cases, he found that buyers typically paid a very small down payment; the smaller the down payment, in fact, the higher the price they paid for the house. What could this mean? Either the most highly leveraged buyers were terrible bargainers -- or, as Ben-David concluded, such anomalies indicated the artificial inflation that marked a cash-back deal.
 Having isolated the suspicious transactions in the data, Ben-David could now examine the noteworthy traits they shared. He found that a small group of real estate agents were repeatedly involved, in particular when the seller was himself an agent or when there was no second agent in the deal. Ben-David also found that the suspect transactions were more likely to occur when the lending bank, rather than keeping the mortgage, bundled it up with thousands of others and sold them off as mortgage-backed securities. This suggests that the issuing banks treat suspect mortgages with roughly the same care as you might treat a rental car, knowing that you aren't responsible for its long-term outcome once it is out of your possession.
 At first glance, these cash-back transactions, while illegal, might seem a victimless crime. After all, the seller gets his house sold and the buyer gets to move in with his family. The real estate agent, the mortgage broker, the attorney and the appraiser are all paid their commissions or fees. Even the bank that made the loan comes out ahead, since it earned its fees on the transaction before passing along the mortgage to investors. 
 But Ben-David argues that there are at least two potential losers. The first is the honest buyer who won't take a cash-back offer and therefore can't buy a house -- all while the illegal cash-back transactions are artificially driving up home prices in his neighborhood.
 The second loser is the investor who bought the mortgage-backed securities. If a house purchased with a cash-back transaction goes into foreclosure, it is soon discovered that the home is worth less than the value of the loan. This, plainly, is not good for the shareholders of such assets. While people who hate rich people may get a thrill from the idea of wealthy shareholders being swindled by a bunch of small-time mortgage hustlers, keep in mind that mortgage-backed securities are the sort of conservative investment widely held by pensioners and other regular folks.
 There's a third potential loser as well: the subprime buyer who does accept the cash-back payment but still ends up defaulting on the loan. Although his criminal act will probably never be prosecuted, he stands to face an even harsher sentence: moving back in with the in-laws. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Sahre and Loren Flaherty) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (85%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (73%); SALES REBATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ARMIES (64%); ENGINEERING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



177 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; COMMENCEMENT SPEECHES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 3129 words

HEADLINE: With Iraq War as a Backdrop, Speakers Reflect on the Future

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
For many if not most members of the class of 2007, the war in Iraq has been the constant background of their college years. And so as seniors graduated from thousands of colleges and universities in recent weeks, the war was on the mind of many commencement speakers. Some criticized its prosecution, others commended the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of volunteers serving in the armed forces, but few ignored the continuing struggle.
 ''Most of you were juniors in high school when terrorists attacked America in September 2001, and it became clear we were a nation at war,'' Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates told graduates at the United States Naval Academy. ''With your credentials, you could have attended another prestigious university, and subsequently pursued a private life, with all its material rewards, your freedom and safety assured by other young men and women who volunteered to serve in the American military.''
Some speakers offered a critical view of the war and its consequences. Anthony W. Marx, the president of Amherst College, spoke at Amherst's commencement of the lessons of the Roman empire, which he said declined when leaders turned away from civic action toward private pursuits, abdicating civil authority to the military. 
 ''Always, our political reach, our cultural persuasion, our economic integration and our military might are bounded,'' Dr. Marx said, drawing analogies between Rome's decline and the present. ''At those boundaries, smugness is challenged. If we fail to heed that challenge, if we do not learn from the limits of our victories, we risk the fate of Rome.''
 Boyd Tinsley, an electric violinist in the Dave Matthews Band, told graduates at the University of Virginia, his alma mater, ''I hope that you will once again bring us back to a time when a person's patriotism was judged by how much they loved their country, and not by how much they loved war.''
 Still, there was plenty of customary commencement fare. Graduates were exhorted to be bold and public spirited, to confront environmental degradation and global warming, to end poverty in the United States and curb it internationally. They were urged to find their inner voice, to leap confidently over obstacles in their careers, to avoid apathy and the lure of personal enrichment over civic engagement.
 ''Times like these call for people like you to stand up and get to work,'' Kamala D. Harris, the San Francisco district attorney, told graduates at San Francisco State University. ''To break barriers, to drive change, roll up your sleeves instead of throwing up your hands.''
 There was also the usual complement of confessions. Brian Williams, the anchor of the NBC Nightly News, confided to students at Tulane that he had not earned a college degree, which he described as ''one of the great, great regrets of my life.'' The mystery novelist Mary Higgins Clark told graduates of Quinnipiac University that she could not sing, dance, cook or sew, though she acknowledged she could tell a story. 
 And Tom Brokaw, the former news anchor at NBC, said at the Skidmore College commencement that his mentor at the University of South Dakota had characterized his undergraduate career this way: ''We always thought his first degree was an honorary degree.''
 Then, too, a number of speakers worried aloud that they might be going on too long. The presidential historian Michael Beschloss reminded graduates at Lafayette College that former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey was known for giving speeches that lasted as long as three hours. 
 ''Once Humphrey did this, and even he knew he was overdoing it,'' Mr. Beschloss said. ''He yelled at the audience, 'Anybody here got a watch?' and someone yelled back, 'How about a calendar?' '' Robert M. Gates Secretary of defense The College of William & Mary 
 Some of you may know the story of Ryan McGlothlin, William & Mary class of 2001: a high school valedictorian, Phi Beta Kappa here and Ph.D. candidate at Stanford. After being turned down by the Army for medical reasons, he persisted and joined the Marines and was deployed to Iraq in 2005. He was killed leading a platoon of riflemen near the Syrian border.
 Ryan's story attracted media attention because of his academic credentials and family connections. That someone like him would consider the military surprised some people. When Ryan first told his parents about joining the Marines, they asked if there was some other way to contribute. He replied that the privileged of this country bore an equal responsibility to rise to its defense. 
 It is precisely during these trying times that America needs its best and brightest young people, from all walks of life, to step forward and commit to public service. Because while the obligations of citizenship in any democracy are considerable, they are even more profound, and more demanding, as citizens of a nation with America's global challenges and responsibilities -- and America's values and aspirations. Tom Brokaw Former anchor, NBC News Skidmore College 
 You've been told during your high school years and your college years that you are now about to enter the real world, and you've been wondering what it's like. Let me tell you that the real world is not college. The real world is not high school. The real world, it turns out, is much more like junior high. You are going to encounter, for the rest of your life, the same petty jealousies, the same irrational juvenile behavior, the same uncertainty that you encountered during your adolescent years. That is your burden. We all share it with you. We wish you well. Samuel A. Alito Jr. Supreme Court justice St. Mary's College 
 Decades from now, you may be different than you are today in a lot of significant ways. You may have a lot more than you have today. You may have more money and more status and more power and more accomplishments. You may also have more responsibilities, more worries, more regrets and more bruises. But underneath all of that, you will still be the same person who is here today graduating from college, and it will be good for you to stay connected with the people who know the real you. Gloria Steinem Writer Smith College 
 In my generation, we were asked by the Smith vocational office how many words we could type a minute, a question that was never asked of then all-male students at Harvard or Princeton. Female-only typing was rationalized by supposedly greater female verbal skills, attention to detail, smaller fingers, goodness knows what, but the public imagination just didn't include male typists, certainly not Ivy League-educated ones. 
 Now computers have come along, and ''typing'' is ''keyboarding.'' Suddenly, voila! -- men can type! Gives you faith in men's ability to change, doesn't it? Kamala D. Harris San Francisco district attorney San Francisco State University 
 As you grow in your career, you may hit another barrier -- the limits that others set for you. A ceiling on what you can accomplish and who you can be. That happened to me. When I decided to run for district attorney, it was considered a man's job even here in San Francisco. No woman had ever been elected district attorney in San Francisco. No person of color had ever been elected district attorney in San Francisco. 
 I remember the day I got my first poll results back. I was sitting in a small conference room, a little nervous, but very hopeful. Then I read them. I was at 6 percent. And that wasn't good. So I was told what you all have probably heard in your life, and that you will certainly hear in your future. I was told that I should wait my turn. I was told that I should give up. I was told that I had no chance. 
 Well, I didn't listen. 
 And I'm telling you, don't you listen either. Don't listen when they tell you that you can't do it. John Grisham Novelist University of Virginia 
 Thirty years ago this week, I graduated from college, class of 1977. I don't recall much about my commencement. I do remember that the speaker was dull and long-winded, and he did inform us that the future was ours and the world was at our feet. I do remember sitting through my commencement being pretty smug: I was graduating from college, I had been accepted to law school and I knew exactly what I was going to do. I was going to study tax law. I wanted to be a tax lawyer because I was convinced I could make a lot of money representing wealthy people who did not want to pay all their taxes. That was my dream, and I had it all planned. I knew the day I was going to start law school, the day I was going to finish. I had a pretty good idea where my office was going to be. It was all planned.
 I don't know where this idea came from. I did not like tax law. I sure didn't know any wealthy people. Looking back, I cannot begin to remember where this idea was planted, but that was my dream. I had everything planned. The idea of writing a book had never crossed my mind. I had never written anything that had not been required by school. I had never dreamed of it.
 Lesson No. 1: You cannot plan the rest of your life. Rev. Peter J. Gomes Professor, Harvard University Augustana College 
 Around this time of year I have an annoying habit of asking people, like you seniors, ''Do you have a job?'' You resist answering that question, but I repeat it, ''Your mother and I want to know, do you have a job?'' By job we don't mean simply something that gives you a salary; I think we really mean: ''Do you have a purpose? Do you have a calling? Do you have a vocation?'' 
 I want to suggest to you that whether or not you have a job, everyone has a vocation, and that vocation is to live a life that is worth living. The best advice I can give is that which St. Paul gives us in Romans 12, where he says to the likes of you, who all look alike from here, ''Be not conformed to this world.'' Do not join the throng. Don't get lost in the crowd. Don't be a part of the cookie-manufactured college generation, but stake out for yourselves some extraordinary, maybe even eccentric, piece and place of the world, and make it your own. Representative John Lewis Democrat of Georgia Adelphia University 
 Sometimes I hear some young people say nothing has changed. I feel like saying, come and walk in my shoes. In 1956, at the age of 16, being so inspired by Dr. King along with some of my brothers and sisters and first cousins, we went to the little library in Pike County, Alabama, a public library in the little town of Troy trying to get library cards, trying to check out some books. And we were told by the librarian that the library was for whites only and not for coloreds. 
 I never went back to that library until July 5, 1998. By that time I was a member of Congress, and I went there for a book signing of my book. Hundreds of blacks and white citizens showed up. I signed many books. In the end, they gave me a library card. It says something about the distance we've come and the progress we've made in laying down the burden of race. Jeffrey D. Sachs Director of the Earth Institute, Columbia University Ursinus College 
 It's all about choice, graduates, it really is. There is nothing about fate. It's all about choice. It's all about values, creativity, leadership. Let me give you just one small example of choice: the choice we are making, the choice we should be making. Malaria is a disease we don't know very much in this country, but it is a disease that will kill two million children this year, overwhelmingly in Africa. Two million children. Now this is a disease that is largely preventable and 100 percent treatable. And the treatment costs 80 cents. But people are so poor that two million kids are going to die this year because they don't even get access to the simplest things, like a bed net treated with insecticide that would protect them from this disease. 
 Now here's the basic arithmetic of our time: There are 300 million places in Africa, sleeping sites where people are vulnerable to being bitten by this disease. 300 million. Each bed net costs five bucks. I trust your economics course was sufficiently good so you could quickly calculate this, it's why I went for a Ph.D. I know that's $1.5 billion. Or you could take out Excel if you want to do it that way. $1.5 billion. And yet almost none of these children sleeps under a bed net because they are too poor. But what is $1.5 billion in today's world? That is what we spend every day on the Pentagon. That's our daily military budget. So here is the calculation and here is the choice. One day's Pentagon spending would provide all sleeping sites in Africa with five years of bed net coverage, to fend off a disease which kills millions every year. That's a choice. We haven't made it. My suggestion is, the Pentagon take next Thursday off. Shirley Ann Jackson President, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute University of Rochester 
 I am an optimist. I am short, and short people can only see the glass as half full. So optimize who you are and what you are. Optimize your experiences and what you have learned. Optimize others. Optimize your opportunities. Seize them and do meaningful things. Berry Gordy Jr. Founder of Motown Records Occidental College 
 I was a songwriter, I was struggling, and I loved it. I wanted to be the greatest songwriter. I was writing about everything -- everything I saw. But I was not making money, and I finally agreed with everyone I ever talked to who knew me, who said, ''Boy, you need to get a job -- a real one.'' So I got a job on the Ford assembly line. And every day I watched how a bare metal frame rolling down the line would come off the other end a spanking brand-new car. Wow, I thought. What a great idea. Maybe I can do the same thing with my music -- create a place where a kid off the street can walk in one door an unknown and come out another door a star. That little thought that came to me while running up and down that assembly line at Ford Motor Company became a reality you now know as Motown. Laura Bush First lady Pepperdine University 
 Today starts a period of incredible liberty and adventure -- a time to demand the most of life, before life makes specific demands on you. And as you work to make the most of what you've received, I can tell you one thing for sure: You won't waste your talents and education if you freely give them in service to others. 
 This is especially important for the class of 2007. More than any other generation of Americans, yours is tasked with resolving challenges that lie far beyond your doorstep -- even far beyond America's borders. Between cellphones and the Internet, you have a world of information literally at your fingertips. And because our world is so small, you can't ignore the genocide in Darfur, or the human-rights abuses in Burma. You can't turn away as pandemic diseases torment an entire continent. And you can't look aside as American communities lie in ruin. Dean Kamen Inventor and entrepreneur Bates College 
 We're moving from a world of stuff, from the idea that there's a finite amount of gold out there, a finite amount of almost anything out there. Throughout all of history, people fought over stuff: land, fuel, stuff. But in your generation, the most value that will be created isn't stuff anymore. It really is ideas. The Internet is an abstraction, and the value of Google exceeds the value of all the car makers. In a world that's about ideas, it's not a zero-sum game. You don't have to win by someone else losing, where you have the gold or oil or water, and somebody else doesn't. Angela Davis Professor, University of California, Santa Cruz Grinnell College 
 I hope that you will treasure the approaches and ways of thinking that you have learned more than the facts you have accumulated. For you will never discover a scarcity of facts, and these facts will be presented in such a way as to veil the ways of thinking embedded in them. And so to reveal these hidden ways of thinking, to suggest alternate frameworks, to imagine better ways of living in evolving worlds, to imagine new human relations that are freed from persisting hierarchies, whether they be racial or sexual or geopolitical -- yes, I think this is the work of educated beings. I might then ask you to think about education as the practice of freedom. Alice Walker Novelist and poet Naropa University 
 When it is all too much, when the news is so bad meditation itself feels useless, and a single life feels too small a stone to offer on the altar of peace, find a human sunrise. Find those people who are committed to changing our scary reality. Human sunrises are happening all over the earth, at every moment. People gathering, people working to change the intolerable, people coming in their robes and sandals or in their rags and bare feet, and they are singing, or not, and they are chanting, or not. But they are working to bring peace, light, compassion to the infinitely frightening downhill slide of human life. George Stephanopoulos Chief Washington correspondent, ABC News St. John's University 
 Solidarity and love are needed more than ever in a world that confounds us with contradictions and confronts us with the challenge of living with its paradoxes. 
 We live in the strongest military power the world has ever known. No country in the world can match that arsenal, but years of war have taught us the painful limits of military force. And we all have been marked by the day when 19 men armed only with box cutters and a death wish struck at the heart of our culture and consciousness. 
 You are about to enter one of the biggest economies the world has ever known. We are creating more billionaires and millionaires than ever before, but the gap between our richest and our poorest is bigger than ever before. One out of every eight Americans is living in poverty, with millions more struggling to get by. You'll be shaping a culture that for better or worse, is copied all over the world. The liberties and opportunities we take for granted make us a magnet for people from all over the world. But the power we project also makes us a target. A country with the reach of an empire cannot avoid the envy of those who have less, or the duty to help care for them. Tavis Smiley Radio and television talk show host Rutgers University 
 The tragedy of life does not lie, young folk, in not reaching your goal. The tragedy lies in having no goal to reach. It is not a calamity to die with dreams unfulfilled, but it is a calamity not to dream. It is not a disaster to not be able to capture your ideals, but it is a disaster to have no ideals to capture. It is not a disgrace to not be able to reach all the stars, but it is a disgrace to have no stars to reach for. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about commencement speeches at colleges around the country referred imprecisely to comments by Boyd Tinsley, an electric violinist in the Dave Matthews Band, at his alma mater, the University of Virginia. He spoke the day before graduation at the university's valedictory exercises, not at the commencement. As the roundup of speeches noted, the novelist John Grisham was the commencement speaker.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LAURA BUSH (Photo by Phil McCarten/Reuters)
 GLORIA STEINEM (Photo by Jim Gipe/Pivot Media) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CLASSICS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); NAVIES (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



178 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: The Great Midtown Cover-Up

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

 BODY:
ANYONE strolling down a nine-block stretch of Broadway in Midtown at noon on a sunny day this spring could be forgiven for thinking that it was either nighttime or unexpectedly gloomy. Nine sidewalk sheds, some up to a full block long, could be found between Times Square and Herald Square. All had been erected around existing buildings, not at sites where construction was taking place. 
 These tunnel-like contraptions of plywood and steel, which look as if they were built using some gargantuan Erector Set, are an increasingly common sight in the city, in part because of a vibrant economy but also because of an increased emphasis on safety. The city's Buildings Department reports that as of February, permits had been granted for 3,317 sheds in Manhattan in the previous 12 months, compared with only 2,321 permits in effect in early 2003. 
In large part, the sheds are a consequence of Local Law 11, which was passed in 1998 and requires regular inspections of the exteriors of buildings seven stories or taller. Inspections often reveal work that needs to be done -- hence the erection of a sidewalk shed while repairs are being made.
 That strolling pedestrian this spring could have found 17 sheds along Central Park West. On Riverside Drive, 17 sheds lined the blocks between 96th Street and the George Washington Bridge. On West End Avenue, 10 sheds could be found between 96th and 106th Streets, and 26 sheds sat along Broadway between 66th and 96th Streets. 
 On the East Side, the picture was similar. There were a half-dozen sheds on First Avenue between 51st and 57th Streets, 10 on Second Avenue between 42nd and 54th Streets, and a half-dozen on Third Avenue between 15th and 25th Streets. In Midtown, there were nearly 30 sheds on Fifth Avenue between 23rd and 54th Streets and 13 on Park Avenue South, a street barely a mile long. Nor were sheds limited to broad north-south avenues. Eight could be found on West 73rd Street, four on a three-block stretch of Waverly Place in Greenwich Village, several on West 116th Street in Harlem and four on Irving Place. 
 To the casual observer, sheds seem to stay in place longer than in the past, often with no evidence of work going on. That is because once work starts, unexpected conditions are often encountered, particularly in older buildings, which may require custom parts. Since it might cost more to remove and reinstall the shed than to leave it in place, the structure is normally kept where it is during the interim. 
 ''We know that in some cases building owners are leaving sheds up for too long,'' said the city's buildings commissioner, Patricia Lancaster. ''Public safety is always paramount, but we must remember that the street life is what defines our city. The trick is to find the balance between the competing interests.'' 
 The Police Department did not reply to questions about the extent of crime committed in these sometimes bleak and forbidding places. Few people, however, find them attractive. Vanessa Gruen, director of special projects at the Municipal Art Society, noted that many such sheds in Europe and Asia are ''beautiful designs.'' And she added, ''We can do this.'' 
 One change for the better is the decreasing use of razor wire atop sheds. Coiled razor wire, intended to keep criminals from entering buildings by climbing onto the roofs of sheds, was popular in an era when the crime rate was higher. But for some New Yorkers, the mere presence of the sheds is eyesore enough. 
 Terence Bertele, a doctor who lives and practices in Washington and is trying to rent his two-bedroom condo on Gramercy Park, never before had trouble finding a tenant. But after a shed went up outside the building last fall, one after another prospective tenant has walked away because the contraption is, as Dr. Bertele put it, ''such a monstrosity.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sidewalk sheds are on the rise. One day this spring, there were 26 along Broadway between 66th and 96th Streets. (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



179 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2365 words

HEADLINE: The Hallelujah People

BYLINE: By JOHNNY DWYER

 BODY:
AMONG the softly lighted houses that line a quiet stretch of Corona Avenue in central Queens, a visitor will encounter a mosque, a Jehovah's Witnesses assembly hall, two Buddhist temples and, finally, a onetime hair salon that is home to a congregation of a Christian sect called Growing in Grace. 
 The sect meets in a spare single room whose furnishings consist primarily of seven rows of white aluminum folding chairs, a crimson carpet and a classroom-size video screen. To the right of the screen stands an American flag. To the left is the flag for an entity called God's Government on Earth, a blue, yellow and silver banner depicting a globe; an anchor; an eagle clutching a sword; and the 14 books that the sect attributes to the Apostle Paul.
''We don't have any crosses here,'' said Yajaira Reyes, a 23-year-old worshiper who lives in the Bronx. ''We don't have any images. The only image we have is of him.'' 
 Ms. Reyes pointed to a poster-size photograph of a heavyset man who was wearing a dark suit and a wan smile and giving the sect's two-fingered salute. He is Jose Luis De Jesus Miranda, the 61-year-old founder of this ministry, and he is known to his followers by the majestic title the Man Christ Jesus. 
 Mr. Miranda and his church have their idiosyncrasies. He has called himself both Jesus Christ and the Antichrist, putting his own spin on the latter term, and he and some of his followers have tattooed themselves with the number 666, the mark of the beast in the Book of Revelation. 
 Although the church claims to have a quarter of a million members worldwide, with large followings in Latin America and in its base city, Miami, its membership in New York is only about 150, split among the Corona church, one in Woodhaven, Queens, and one in Inwood in Manhattan. But in an important respect, this small church is representative of an abiding theme in a large and growing swath of the city. Religious fervor may not be strikingly common among native New Yorkers, but among the city's multiplying number of immigrants it is a frequent and prominent feature of the landscape. 
 ''Religion has such an important function in immigrant life,'' said David Badillo, author of the 2006 book ''Latinos and the New Immigrant Church'' and the research director at the Bronx Institute of Lehman College. ''They need the organization, the networking. They need everything from the employment network to the prayer groups.'' And beyond that, he said, ''there's a lot of religious enthusiasm and passion.'' 
 This zeal is much in evidence among members of Growing in Grace. Their standard greeting to one another reflects their blissful state of mind. ''You're blessed,'' they say upon meeting a fellow adherent, ''with all spiritual blessing.'' Presidential Style 
 At the church on Corona Avenue, a 49-year-old data technician from nearby Elmhurst named Gilbert Fuentes fiddled with his laptop to set up the video that would soon bring the Man Christ Jesus into the room. More than a dozen congregants filed in, laughing and hugging. It was nearly 8 p.m. Feb. 14, and the sect, also known to its largely Spanish-speaking members as Creciendo en Gracia, would soon begin its weekly Wednesday service. The church meets on Wednesday and Sundays, coinciding with Mr. Miranda's twice-weekly broadcasts. 
 If the church borrows its aesthetic from anywhere, it is from the American presidency. Mr. Miranda sometimes refers to himself as the president of God's government on Earth -- hence the slogan on the blue, yellow and silver flag -- and when he speaks he stands at a lectern behind a near-replica of the presidential seal. A copy of this seal is taped to the church's front door. 
 But religious drama and rhetoric also loom large at Growing in Grace. ''We call it the Beloved,'' Mr. Fuentes said of his congregation. ''That's what God called it: the Beloved. And we are the Beloved from Queens.'' 
 Mr. Fuentes, a son of a Colombian mother and an Ecuadorean father, has been a member of the church for 18 months. He said that his father, a reluctant Catholic, once had a vision of Christ returning to Earth wearing a business suit. When Mr. Fuentes visited the Corona congregation on a friend's recommendation, the preacher he saw onscreen, Mr. Miranda, matched this vision.
 ''When I came to the center for the first time, I felt like he had taken hold of me,'' Mr. Fuentes said. As Mr. Fuentes spoke, he continued pressing keys on his laptop. In a moment, behind him, the church projector displayed a Web page. It read: ''Welcome to the signal that will transform your mind.'' Tithes and Tattoos 
 Mr. Miranda, the center of this sect, acknowledges his earthly origins in Ponce, Puerto Rico. He moved to Massachusetts in 1979 and founded his faith seven years later. His organization refers to him as a doctor, though in an interview in March with ABC News, he acknowledged that he had not earned a doctorate. 
 The sect holds that while sin died on the cross with Jesus, the idea of sin still oppresses people. Mr. Miranda himself struggled with drugs and served time for robbery, but Bishop Rafael Encarnacion, his spokesman, dismissed those events as a youthful interlude. 
 ''That was when he was a young guy, when he was 15 or 16,'' the bishop said. ''He went to jail when he was 21. But after that he never went back to addiction.''
 Mr. Miranda's transformations have punctuated the short history of Growing in Grace. In 1991, he introduced himself to his flock as El Otro, or the Other, a sort of transitional deity that prefigured the Second Coming of Christ. In 2004, Mr. Miranda announced to the world that he was Jesus Christ. Then in January this year, during an appearance on his weekly broadcast, he rolled up his sleeves to reveal the numbers 666 tattooed on one arm and the letters SSS, a Spanish abbreviation that stands for ''Once Saved, Always Saved,'' on the other. Then, to the cheers of his audience, he proclaimed that he is the Antichrist. 
 Mr. Miranda uses the startling word Antichrist to underscore the idea that while Christ's death secured heavenly salvation for all, Mr. Miranda's mission is to save people from the misery of their life on Earth. If they tithe -- contribute 10 percent of their income -- and make additional offerings, then prosperity will follow, Mr. Miranda promises. He can achieve this result, he says, because he is God. 
 This message has found an audience among disaffected Latino Christians, of which the worshipers in Corona seem representative. Some of the congregants are native New Yorkers, but most are immigrants from countries like Ecuador, El Salvador and Venezuela. Members of the sect can be found throughout the city, and their numbers include older couples, young singles and young couples whose toddlers pad up and down the church's carpeted floor as their parents greet their friends.
 In the opinion of Dr. Badillo of Lehman College, it is not surprising that this church and others like it speak powerfully to immigrants. ''When people come to the United States, they become more consumerist about their beliefs,'' he said. A new life in a new country, he explained, creates opportunities to explore religion beyond the faith in which one was raised. 
 But where Dr. Badillo sees social trends, Mr. Fuentes and his fellow adherents see spiritual truth. ''We believe that he is God,'' Mr. Fuentes said of Mr. Miranda. ''That even though he was born in Puerto Rico, when he speaks, he is God.'' Beaming In the Message 
 As the worshipers settled into their seats on the evening of Feb. 14, they were welcomed by Pastor Javier Mackenzie, a trim man wearing a pinstripe black suit, an olive green shirt and a gold tie. 
 Then the Internet broadcast began, the announcer's voice intoning, ''You will be exposed to the mysteries of the Gospel of Grace -- mysteries that have been kept hidden since before the foundation of the world.'' 
 A slightly fuzzy image of a woman in a strapless floral dress appeared onscreen, swaying to what sounded like a lackluster cruise band. The audience onscreen and the one in the room rose to their feet and sang a hymn that included as its chorus ''We are his church and his Beloved.'' The broadcast, which is beamed to members of Growing in Grace worldwide, is one of two weekly services conducted in Florida and transmitted both online at www.cegenglish.com and via Mr. Miranda's cable television channel, Telegracia. 
 Later, envelopes embossed with the church's seal were circulated among the audience. Congregants placed checks and cash inside and jotted their names and addresses on the outside. 
 ''In the tithing is a mystery,'' Mr. Fuentes explained later. ''And in that mystery is where prosperity begins.'' Many congregants refer to their offerings as ''planting a seed.'' 
 To outsiders suspicious of the purposes behind the tithing, Bishop Encarnacion is firm about its theological roots. ''The Apostle Paul teaches us the right way of prosperity,'' he said. ''He established in Hebrews that the tithing and offering is the way to prosperity. It's biblical. We don't sell anything.'' 
 The sect is publicity-conscious, though. Early in the Feb. 14 broadcast, for example, a bishop presented a report on the prior week's media coverage of the sect. At one point, he replayed a news clip from a Miami television station about Growing in Grace followers getting ''666'' tattoos at a South Beach tattoo parlor. The audience sat, rapt. 
 An hour into the broadcast, Mr. Miranda appeared onscreen, wearing a navy vest emblazoned with ''666'' and ''SSS.'' The crowd jumped to its feet, screaming and clapping. In his soft, familiar voice, Mr. Miranda announced that he had just returned from Colombia, where many of his followers live, and had historic news. He planned to install one of his followers as Colombia's next president, he said, making that nation the first to come under his control in a vision of global rule that the sect believes is set out in the Bible. 
 Then, switching gears, Mr. Miranda turned to what he called God's true message, that human beings needed to remove their ''veil,'' or the identity that the Christian idea of sin had created in them. 
 Inspired, Ms. Reyes jotted on a piece of notebook paper: ''I am a perfect angel/spirit. We are Gods.'' One Man's Conversion 
 Pastor Mackenzie, 49, who is one of the three pastors in the Corona church, first heard Mr. Miranda's message in 1991, when he was living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. An Ecuadorean who moved to the United States in 1988, the pastor belonged to two Pentecostal churches back then, but he still felt what he described as ''an emptiness.''
 One day, someone gave him two tapes of Mr. Miranda's sermons. The message so infuriated the pastor's wife, who was Pentecostal, that he had to sneak away to listen to the tapes alone.
 Their message moved him deeply. The sermons promised Pastor Mackenzie something that his Pentecostal church could not: a life removed from the shadow of sin. His new faith outlasted the marriage -- though his former wife would also eventually join the Beloved.
 Since he began to follow Growing in Grace, Pastor Mackenzie has watched the ministry prosper. He has also tithed diligently, even continuing to give $35 or $40 from the weekly unemployment benefits of about $360 he has received since he lost his job as a private-school bus driver a few months ago. Thanks to his newfound faith, he says, trials like the loss of his job do not bother him. Mr. Miranda's message is enough to sustain him. 
 ''It's freedom,'' Pastor Mackenzie said. ''We have freedom.'' 'Mark of the Beast' 
 One evening in early March, nearly 30 members of the Corona church gathered at Pete & Cubo's Tattooing and Body Piercing shop in Ozone Park to take part in another rite of the church. An odor of cigarette smoke and rubbing alcohol hung in the air, paired with the hum of tattoo needles at work. 
 Cecilia Salazar, a school custodian who lives in Harlem and is a member of Growing in Grace, sat on a stool, her long dark hair held off her shoulders by a barrette. As the tattoo artist drew on her neck, the blue-black ink mixed with the red of blood. The completed tattoo read: ''666.'' 
 ''This is the mark of the beast,'' said Ms. Salazar, whose husband and 20-year-old daughter were also receiving tattoos. ''This is the mark of my father.'' 
 Like Pastor Mackenzie, Ms. Salazar credits her faith with turning around her life. ''I used to feel lost or lonely,'' she said. ''I wasn't happy. I only looked for God, and I couldn't find the God I needed. I didn't have faith in God. But now it's reality. It's here. I can see him.''
 The Salazars were among more than a dozen members of Growing in Grace who got tattoos that day. (Other worshipers chose not to get tattoos, but went along to watch and lend moral support.) Ms. Reyes, who also got a tattoo, said the congregation had been turned down by four tattoo parlors before finding this location. The cost negotiated was $40 for those wanting just ''666'' and $70 for those, like Pastor William Salazar, Ms. Salazar's brother-in-law, who also wanted ''SSS'' engraved. 
 In the tattoo parlor's waiting room, representatives of the news media had gathered, invited by the sect. As a reporter from ABC News and a crew from Fox News documented the event, sect members chanted and displayed a large banner bearing Mr. Miranda's image. 
 Similar tattooing events have taken place among followers in Massachusetts, Florida, Texas and Canada, each heralded by a press release from Growing in Grace's energetic media operation. The sect perceives attention from the news media as proof of Mr. Miranda's celestial authority, and as was the case on Feb. 14 in Corona, that attention is highlighted at the beginning of each service. The Corona worshipers were excited; maybe this time their fellow adherents around the globe would see them on the screen.
 Mr. Fuentes and Pastor Mackenzie watched the media flurry. Both had declined to be tattooed, and Mr. Fuentes said there was no pressure among sect members to do so.
 ''This is happening around the world,'' he said. ''This is all part of God's spectacle.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: REJOICE -- Fervor unites the worshipers at Growing in Grace, a church whose focal point, in the poster at top and in the video at left, is Jose Luis De Jesus Miranda, also known as the Man Christ Jesus. (Photographs by Betty Alexandra Bastidas for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
ZEAL -- Broadcast sermons by the founder are the centerpiece of the enthusiastic, twice-weekly services at the Growing in Grace church.
IN HIS WAKE -- Some members, inspired by the founder, got ''666'' tattoos. Some also got ''SSS,'' top left, from the Spanish for ''Once Saved, Always Saved.''
 BLISS -- Adherents greet each other with a standard, joyous phrase. ''You're blessed,'' they say, ''with all spiritual blessing.'' (Photographs by Betty Alexandra Bastidas for The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); WRITERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



180 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: A Half Century of Memories That Won't Stay Buried

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla. 

 BODY:
A good crowd gathered in front of the county courthouse that summer day to witness the burial of an exceptionally large time capsule: a new gold-and-white Plymouth Belvedere, containing a flag, a city directory, a case of beer, an unpaid parking ticket and the contents of a woman's purse, among other things.
 City dignitaries explained that exactly 50 years in the future, on June 15, 2007, this fin-tailed hardtop would be unearthed to show the world who we were and how we lived, in Tulsa, in 1957. Earle Davenport of Memorial Park Cemetery had been kind enough to donate a bronze marker to be set in the ground above the Plymouth, lest we forget. 
 The curious event, which twinned a commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Oklahoma's statehood with a Plymouth promotion, drew all sorts of people to Denver Avenue that day. Some thought that burying a new car was dumb; others thought it sublime.
 Here was Teddy Baxter, staring at this Plymouth raised high before its entombment. He and an older brother, Henry, had left their father's downtown cafe to see what all the commotion was about, and now Henry was explaining to Teddy that the car would be resurrected in a new century, a new millennium.
 I'll never be alive, said Teddy, who was 6.
 Sure you will, answered Henry, who was 19. I might not be, but you'll be around for sure.
 Then Henry hoisted his little brother onto his shoulders so that the boy could inscribe his name in pen on one of the Belvedere's whitewall tires.
 Here too was wiry Gene McDaniel, who had fled the family farm at 16 and now, at 20, was doing all right for himself as an auto mechanic in the big city. He was preening with his buddy and two young women in the 1957 black Chevrolet Bel Air convertible he had just bought. Perched high on the red-upholstered back seat, the couples could see everything.
 Gene, who lived to race cars and chase women, considered the meaning of the Belvedere displayed before him. In 2007, he would be 70. No way would he make it.
 And here was Nancy Williams, a newlywed at 20 in a pink-and-black summer dress, proudly watching from the street as her father helped to stage the event. That was her daddy in the dark sunglasses, Luther Williams the public relations whiz, doing his part for posterity.
 The Belvedere, loaded down with bits of Tulsa, was lowered into a concrete vault and buried. Teddy and his brother went back to the cafe. Nancy went home, where she soon learned that her father had included among the buried mementos her wedding portrait. Gene and his buddy took their dates somewhere lost to time.
 What is 50 years but half a century and a finger's snap. Something triggers our memory -- an old photograph, a found earring, a plaque in the ground, ''courtesy of Earle Davenport'' -- and suddenly we notice the change. All we can do is marvel at how time is a sly magician, distracting us with one hand while pocketing our years with the other.
 If the Belvedere is in driving condition when it is unearthed on Friday, its headlamps will flicker across a different Tulsa: a Tulsa that can no longer claim to be the Oil Capital of the World, but a Tulsa with a strong and diverse economy, and a population that has grown by more than 100,000 over those 50 years, to about 390,000. 
 The Orpheum, where Gene McDaniel once watched movies, and Bishop's, where Nancy Williams ate after dances -- ''Fine Food Around the Clock,'' its sign said -- may be gone, but Cain's Ballroom is still thriving, and glorious Art Deco buildings still define the cityscape. 
 Three years after Teddy Baxter signed his name to that whitewall tire, his mother died, days before turning 50. He grew up to become a quality-control supervisor for a local company, and the father of two children, now grown. He goes by Ted now, not Teddy.
 Mr. Baxter says the first 25 years after that day moved slowly, while the second 25 passed in an eye's blink. But no matter its speed, time never diminished his boyhood memory of being held aloft by a patient older brother, who turned out to be right in saying who of them would live to see the day, and who would not.
 Gene McDaniel, meanwhile, married twice, though to neither of those women in his Bel Air convertible that day. He has three children, eight grandchildren and an undying passion for cars. In fact, he kept that Bel Air convertible in near-mint condition, and she's a beauty. In a way, it seems, he managed to stop time.
 As for Nancy Williams, she buried her marriage two years after the city buried the Belvedere, leaving her a working single mother of twin toddlers. But she married again, had another child, married again, then once more.
 In the mid-1970s, a few years before his death, her father sent a letter to the Tulsa Historical Society, asking that on the day of the Belvedere's resurrection, please tear up that wedding picture.
 ''Trying to save me from embarrassment,'' says the unembarrassed publicist's daughter, whose name now is Nancy Williams Lawson.
 Ms. Lawson, 70, has seven grandchildren, plays golf four days a week and rarely goes downtown. But when she does, and she sees that plaque in the ground, she's a newlywed again, she's gazing at her daddy, and she's wearing that pink-and-black dress. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy Williams Lawson, top, with a copy of the wedding photograph that was buried in the time capsule. Gene McDaniel in his 1957 Bel Air. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times) Map of Oklahoma highlighting Tulsa 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); WOMEN (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); PARKING OFFENSES (72%); MILLENNIUM (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (90%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



181 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; TEACHERS/STUDENTS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 3510 words

HEADLINE: The Class-Consciousness Raiser

BYLINE: By Paul Tough. 
Paul Tough is an editor of the magazine. He is writing a book about the Harlem Children's Zone, a community organization.

 BODY:
By the time Ruby Payne sat down for lunch, she had been at it for three hours straight, standing alone behind a lectern on a wide stage in a cavernous convention hall, parked between two American flags, instructing an audience of 1,400 Georgians in the hidden rules of class. No notes, no warm-up act, just Ruby, with her Midwestern-by-way-of-East-Texas drawl and her crisp white shirt, her pinstriped business suit and bright red lipstick and blow-dried blond hair, a wireless microphone hooked around her right ear. She had already explained why rich people don't eat casseroles, why poor people hang their pictures high up on the wall, why middle-class people pretend to like people they can't stand. She had gone through the difference between generational poverty and situational poverty and the difference between new money and old money, and she had done a riff on how middle-class people are so self-satisfied that they think everyone wants to be middle class. 
For the Glynn County Board of Education, Payne's visit was a big deal. It was back in 2005 that Marjorie Varnadoe, the board's director of professional development, called to request a presentation from Payne, and this particular Thursday, two years later, was the earliest available date. Principals had ordered Payne's books and DVDs by the boxload, mostly her ur-text, ''A Framework for Understanding Poverty,'' and they made the books required reading for their staffs. All over the county, which is on the coast, down near the Florida border, schools held small workshops on class and education, using Payne's ''Framework'' as a guide, and teachers sat down together for informal discussions and lunchroom chats about poverty and wealth. When the big day came, the entire school system was given the day off, and by 8 a.m. almost every single teacher and administrator in the county was packed into the Jekyll Island Conference Center, along with the school board, the Chamber of Commerce and various local dignitaries.
 The morning went well. Payne, who is 56, has been giving this presentation for more than 10 years, and she knows how to work it: alternating a funny story with a sad one, mixing anecdotes from her own teaching career with references to the work of learned academics, never lecturing or preaching, keeping up a steady stream of one-liners. At 10 a.m., there was a 15-minute break, but not for Payne. A line quickly formed in front of her, and she sat on the lip of the stage, leaning on one arm, her legs tucked beneath her, signing books and listening attentively as one audience member after another told her their own stories about class and education and, usually, how her books had helped them understand their students and themselves. A few of the teachers hugged Payne. One woman kissed her hand. Another burst into tears. 
 And now it was time for lunch, fried chicken and sweet iced tea and white sheet cake for 1,400, served in a second giant conference hall just across the atrium from the first. Payne sat in the middle of a small circle of admirers; across the table was Charlotte Lawson, an instructional coach at a local elementary school. Lawson was a veteran of the Ruby Payne system, a graduate of a four-day in-depth certification course that authorized her to train other teachers in the basics of Payne's framework. But she had never met Payne one on one like this, and she was gushing. ''I'm so excited,'' she said. ''This is like a dream.''
 Payne laughed a friendly laugh.
 ''I've shared so much of the training here,'' Lawson said. ''People are always telling me, 'It makes all the pieces fit together.' When you work with children and families from poverty, you don't understand it till you hear this piece, and then all of a sudden you're going, 'Oh, that's why they did that.' '' 
 At the heart of Payne's philosophy is a one-page chart, titled ''Hidden Rules Among Classes,'' which appears in most of her books. There are three columns, for poverty, middle class and wealth, and 15 rows, covering everything from time to love to money to language. In a few words, Payne explains how each class sees each concept. Humor in poverty? About people and sex. In the middle class? About situations. In wealth? About social faux pas. In poverty, the present is most important. In the middle class, it's the future. In wealth, it's the past. The key question about food in poverty: Did you have enough? In the middle class: Did you like it? In wealth: Was it presented well?
 It may be that the only people with abiding faith in the power of class divisions in America are the country's few remaining Marxists and Ruby Payne. And while Payne may not believe in class struggle, per se, she does believe that there is widespread misunderstanding among the classes -- and more than ever, she says, the class that bears the cost of that misunderstanding is the poor. In schools, particularly, where poor students often find themselves assigned to middle-class teachers, class cluelessness is rampant. 
 Your class, Payne says, determines everything: your eating habits, your speech patterns, your family relations. It is possible to move out of the class you were born into, either up or down, she says, but the transition almost always means a great disruption to your sense of self. And you can ascend the class ladder only if you are willing to sacrifice many of your relationships and most of your values -- and only if you first devote yourself to careful study of the hidden rules of the class you hope to enter.
 Payne's critics say she is oversimplifying the complexities of poverty in the United States, perpetuating offensive stereotypes of irresponsible, disorganized poor people who play the TV too loud and like to solve disputes with their fists. Payne is quick to caution that her portrait is a general one. She would be ''heartsick,'' she said on stage, ''if anyone used this information to stereotype.'' But she also says that if teachers and other professionals don't look below the surface of class -- if they don't make an effort to understand the habits and styles and traditions that persist in many poor families -- they will never be able to recognize the deep obstacles that poor people, and especially poor children, often face.
 Payne's journey into class consciousness began more than 30 years ago, when she met Frank, the man who would become her husband. Ruby was raised in a middle-class Mennonite family in Ohio, while Frank grew up in extreme poverty in Goshen, Ind. As Ruby began to spend time in Frank's impoverished neighborhood, she realized that she didn't understand the first thing about the lives of the people who lived there -- and they didn't get her, either. Frank's friends were appalled that Ruby didn't know how to defend herself in a fight; Ruby was stunned that her neighbors would regularly get paid on Friday and, after a weekend of carousing, be broke by Monday. 
 As Payne studied her new surroundings, she came to appreciate more subtle nuances of class division. She realized that her husband's family's poverty was what she would later come to call ''situational'': they had been middle class until Frank's father died when Frank was 6, and only then had they slipped down to the economy's bottom rung. Most of their neighbors, by contrast, were in ''generational poverty,'' meaning their families had been poor for as long as anyone could remember. Each group, she discovered, had its own distinct set of beliefs and customs.
 Payne's next lesson came when her husband took a job on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade. He wasn't rich, but he was now spending his work life with men who were, which meant that Ruby was expected to socialize with their wives. She didn't fit in with the rich any better than she had fit in with the poor. More miscommunications and social awkwardness ensued, generating more fodder for Payne's growing understanding of class difference.
 Payne wasn't quite sure what to do with this new knowledge. As her career in education developed, from teacher to principal to administrator, she found that her understanding of class came in handy. Because of her exposure to her husband's family and neighbors, it seemed, she was better able to communicate with poor students than most other middle-class teachers. Her colleagues began to ask her for help and advice on dealing with their most troubling students, and Payne worked up an informal set of strategies and tips that she would pass along.
 Then in 1993, after moving to Texas, Payne read a book that had a profound effect on her: ''Creating Money,'' a New Age-infused guide to ''the spiritual laws of money.'' It's an odd book, ostensibly dictated to the authors by two ''spirit guides'' named Orin and DaBen. But Payne was inspired. ''The book said, Make a list of what you want in your life and ask the universe to bring it to you,'' she told me. ''So I did. I wrote: 'I want a life without financial constraints. I want a life without institutional constraints. And I want to make a difference with children.' And it happened!''
 Payne began to give talks on class for small groups of teachers, and they were a hit. Word spread. Soon she was addressing audiences all across the Texas school district where she worked. Over spring break in 1995, she banged out a manuscript based on her ideas and quickly published it herself. This was ''A Framework for Understanding Poverty,'' which, she says, has gone on to sell more than a million copies. As Payne's following grew, she quit her job and became a full-time speaker, author and trainer. 
 She now owns and runs her own business, called aha! Process, Inc.; it has more than 50 trainers on contract and accrues millions of dollars in annual revenues. Ruby Payne has become a small industry: her company offers training sessions, workshops, DVDs, audiotapes, T-shirts, autographed Ruby Payne coffee mugs and lots and lots of books: a book about the hidden rules of class in the workplace, a workbook to help people in poverty learn the rules to pull themselves out, a Spanish translation of ''A Framework for Understanding Poverty.'' In ''What Every Church Member Should Know About Poverty,'' which Payne wrote with Bill Ehlig, a minister in Baytown, Tex., she not only urges middle-class and wealthy churches to welcome poor parishioners in the door but she also lays out the extra steps they need to take to make the newcomers feel at home. In ''Crossing the Tracks for Love,'' Payne takes on romance, offering advice for those who enter into a relationship with a person from another class. It's not easy, Payne cautions: everything from disciplining children to interior decoration is a potential flashpoint for a class-based quarrel. So she provides tips:
 ''If you're from middle class and marry or otherwise move into poverty, understand the need of your spouse/partner to protect you,'' she writes. ''You are his/her possession. Try to see the positives in this.''
 And later: ''If you come from a middle-class background and marry into wealth . . . learn about extended silverware and silver settings and the different pieces of crystal used to drink different beverages -- and take cooking classes. Never, but never, make fun of yourself as a deficient cook. Be extremely knowledgeable about wine.''
 In ''Crossing the Tracks,'' as in all of her work, Payne emphasizes that she is not making value judgments about the relative merits of the different classes; she's just explaining how they work. ''I'm not interested in changing your behavior or the behavior of your spouse or significant other,'' she writes. ''My only goal is to provide you with options -- and awareness. When you know the hidden rules, you have more choices. You can choose whether or not you want to alter your behavior or embrace a different way of doing things. But unless you're informed, you won't get the opportunity to decide.'' 
 Despite Payne's counsel, the reality is that in the nation's bedrooms and churches, bridges across the class divide are increasingly rare: most Americans worship with and marry people who are just like them. In public schools, though, class divisions are a frequent part of daily existence, sometimes within the student body but also, and more significant, between teachers and students. 
 The passage of the No Child Left Behind law in 2002 brought a new urgency to the issue of poverty in the classroom. For the first time, schools were required not only to report their overall test results but also to calculate the scores for various ''subgroups,'' including racial minorities, students for whom English is a second language and students whose parents' income is low enough to qualify them for a free or reduced-price lunch. It soon became impossible to ignore that there was a problem: poor students were scoring well behind their wealthier peers. And schools suddenly had a powerful incentive to try to address that disparity. Even otherwise well-performing schools could be labeled failures if their poor students weren't catching up.
 Payne believes that teachers can't help their poor students unless they first understand them, and that means understanding the hidden rules of poverty. The second step, Payne says, is to teach poor students explicitly about the hidden rules of the middle class. She emphasizes that the goal should not be to change students' behavior outside of school: you don't teach your students never to fight if fighting is an important survival skill in the housing project where they live. But you do tell them that in order to succeed at school or later on in a white-collar job, they need to master certain skills: how to speak in ''formal register,'' how to restrain themselves from physical retaliation, how to keep a schedule, how to exist in what Payne calls the ''abstract world of paper.'' 
 At the Jekyll Island seminar, I met Steve Kipp, a science teacher at Brunswick High with a ponytail and a jumpy, eager energy. He looked as if he might be the kind of guy whom the other teachers would call when they couldn't get their computers to work right. Kipp sat in the front row, dead center, and at the break he was the first person to come up and ask Payne for advice. 
 In 10th grade at Brunswick High, Kipp told me later, the advanced students usually take chemistry, and the other students, the ones who are more likely to wind up in technical college, take Kipp's class, which is called General Physical Science. And each year it's the same, Kipp said: the rich and middle-class kids are tracked into chemistry, and he gets the kids from poverty. Kipp grew up in the middle class, and in the past, he said, before he read Payne's book, he would get frustrated by his poor students. They seemed unwilling or unable to learn; they laughed when he tried to mete out discipline. And so he found it hard to keep exerting himself. What was the point in teaching them, he thought, if they weren't going to make an effort?
 But after he immersed himself in Payne's work, about five years ago, Kipp's ideas changed. ''I realized, these kids aren't dumb,'' he said. ''They just haven't had the enriching experiences that I had growing up.'' So he pushes himself harder now to provide more experiments in the classroom, more hands-on learning to help his students develop the same kind of instinctive understanding of nature that he got running around in the woods as a boy. 
 Payne's work in the schools has attracted a growing chorus of criticism, mostly from academia. Although Payne says that her only goal is to help poor students, her critics claim that her work is in fact an assault on those students. By teaching them middle-class practices, critics say, she is engaging in ''classism'' and racism. Her work is ''riddled with factual inaccuracies and harmful stereotypes,'' charges Anita Bohn, an assistant professor at Illinois State University, in a paper on Payne's work. Paul Gorski, an assistant professor at Hamline University in St. Paul, writes that Payne's central text ''consists, at the crudest level, of a stream of stereotypes and a suggestion that we address poverty and education by 'fixing' poor people instead of reforming classist policies and practices.'' (''LeftyHenry,'' a recent poster on a political blog, was less subtle in his criticism; he called Payne ''the Hitler of American academics.'')
 Payne's critics seem less aggrieved by what she includes in her analysis than by what they say she has left out: an acknowledgment that the American economy and American schools systematically discriminate against poor people. In this way, Payne finds herself in the middle of one of the central debates about poverty today. On one side are those, like Payne, who believe that poor people share certain habits and behaviors that help keep them in poverty. Recognizing and changing those behaviors, Payne and those who share her views believe, will help poor people to succeed. On the other side are those like Payne's critics, who think that the game is so thoroughly fixed that most poor people can't succeed no matter what they do. To them, locating any of the causes of persistent poverty among poor people themselves is, in effect, blaming the victim.
 Academics in the latter group can't stand Payne. And academics in the former group find it hard to defend her. There are plenty of sociologists, psychologists and economists who have reached conclusions similar to Payne's: poor parents are more inclined to use corporal punishment; poor students are more eager to work hard in a teacher's class when they feel a personal relationship with a teacher; poor homes are more often chaotic and loud. The problem is Payne's methodology, or rather her lack of one. She does have a Ph.D. in social policy, and her book does have a few pages of footnotes. Her seminars include occasional references to popular scholarly works of sociology and history, like Robert Putnam's ''Bowling Alone'' and Jared Diamond's ''Guns, Germs and Steel.'' But clearly, Payne's preferred unit of research is the anecdote. Her talks are nothing like university lectures. They're a blend of cracker-barrel wisdom, Tony Robbins-style motivational speaking and a Chris Rock comedy routine. And that means that among academics in good standing, saying something nice about Ruby Payne is a good way to invite the disapproval of your peers.
 You would think that Payne wouldn't fret about a few angry assistant professors whose collective audience is a tiny fraction of the size of hers. But somehow, like gnats at a backyard barbecue, they drive her to distraction. Each time a progressive education journal publishes a detailed Foucauldian critique of her book (which she wrote, don't forget, in a single week), Payne feels compelled to write in with a paragraph or two in her own defense. It doesn't work, of course; the author invariably blasts back with another extended volley of withering scorn. In the pages of the Teachers College Record, the rich blond-haired white lady from Corpus Christi is never going to come out ahead. 
 Still, Payne won't give up. She told me that she plans to spend a good part of this summer bolstering the scholarship behind her work, digging into the latest research, adding footnotes and references to her 11-year-old book. 
 For now, though, she's got her stories, one after another, some from her own life, some from her trainers or from teachers and principals she has worked with. They can seem rehearsed, a little neat; some she repeats almost verbatim from one or another of her books. But for the teachers in the Jekyll Island conference center, that didn't seem to matter much. For many of them, the real struggle of teaching wasn't about keeping up with the latest in the debate on phonics versus whole language. It was about figuring out how to teach, how to help -- even how to connect with -- students who sometimes seemed as if they weren't just from a different neighborhood but from a different planet. 
 As the afternoon drew to a close, Payne cut out the jokes and grew serious. ''I think the hardest part about teaching is the stories that kids tell you that just pull your heart out,'' she said, gripping the sides of the lectern and scanning the audience. ''There isn't a person in here who doesn't have a student whose stories still haunt you.'' Her voice was quiet, and her accent had softened. Every pair of eyes, it seemed, was on her. ''What I've learned to say to kids is this: 'You know, I respect you so much that you can handle this situation. I don't know that I could. But if you don't want to live that way the rest of your life, then I can give you the tools that will help you do things differently. It's your choice. I can't change your situation right now, but I can certainly give you the tools to help you change.' And I think that's the gift we bring. It's a huge gift.'' 
 The chart shows that income tends rise with more years of education. (Chart by Linda Eckstein) 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo illustration by Geof Kern) Chart: ''THE REWARDS OF EDUCATION''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); COUNTIES (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



182 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Trinidad Group Denies Link to New York Bomb Plot

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad, June 9 

 BODY:
One senior member of this island's most hard-line Islamic group said he loves American television and hopes to send his son off to university in the States. Another said that when he is not praying or preaching, he plays in a steel drum band.
 Denying that their group, Jamaat al Muslimeen, was tied to any plot to bomb a New York City airport, members this week portrayed themselves as both Islamists and islanders, devoted to God but also part of the multicultural mix that defines the Caribbean nation of Trinidad and Tobago.
Even as they did, the fiery imam who has long been the Jamaat's public face ducked out the back of the mosque. That man, Yasin Abu Bakr, who once led a violent coup attempt here in 1990, faces trial next week for sedition and extortion and oversees a group with a reputation for thuggishness. 
 Those who have studied the group consider it a stretch to mention Jamaat al Muslimeen and Al Qaeda in the same breath. But United States authorities say it was an obvious place for the four suspects now accused of plotting to bomb Kennedy International Airport to turn when they were looking for Islamist support. 
 ''They're certainly a militant group with a history of criminality and violence,'' said Chris Zambelis, a counterterrorism analyst with the Jamestown Foundation in Washington. ''But their focus has been strictly on Trinidadian issues.
 ''I'd describe them as a local criminal gang,'' he added, ''not any kind of global terrorist organization. It's a very radical fringe group, not at all representative of the Trinidadian Muslim community.'' 
 Court documents suggest that Mr. Abu Bakr met in May with one of the suspects, Abdel Nur, a Guyanese national who surrendered to the police on Tuesday.
 The Islamic leader, the court documents say, suggested a follow-up meeting ''to discuss the plan in detail'' and to give Mr. Abu Bakr time to do further checks on the participants. Before any such meeting took place, authorities in New York and Port of Spain arrested the four on charges of planning to bomb the airport's fuel line.
 Jamaat officials said two of the suspects had visited their mosque, but they dismissed the notion that a real terrorist operation was in progress and that their group was part of it. 
 ''We don't subscribe to that -- this randomly blowing up of people,'' said Kala Akii-Bua, Jamaat's social welfare officer and the leader of a steel drum orchestra, adding, ''I have a lot of respect for the security forces of America.''
 Jamaat al Muslimeen, which has about 1,000 members in Trinidad, has long been the region's most controversial Islamic organization. 
 At what was perhaps the height of its radicalism nearly two decades ago, Jamaat established ties with Libya when it was considered by Washington to be a terrorist state and dispatched armed fighters to take over Trinidad and Tobago's Parliament.
 Since that raid, which left two dozen people dead, the prime minister with a bullet wound to the leg and the police headquarters in ashes after a car bombing, Jamaat claims to have transformed itself.
 ''Our organization has not turned one corner but many corners in recent years,'' Mr. Akii-Bua said. 
 After seizing power for about a week, Mr. Abu Bakr and his 100 or so followers were charged with murder, treason and other charges stemming from the coup. But a court dropped the charges after ruling that the men had been pardoned by the then-president.
 ''We had never had that kind of experience,'' said Brinsley Samaroo, a government minister at the time of the coup who is now a historian at the University of Trinidad and Tobago. ''It was totally traumatizing. It was the moment we lost our innocence as a country. People saw the impossible happen.''
 But even since his pardon, Mr. Abu Bakr, who was born Lennox Phillips and converted to Islam while studying in Canada in the 1970s, has repeatedly run afoul of the authorities here. 
 Next week Mr. Abu Bakr faces trial on charges of sedition and extortion, stemming from an explosive sermon he delivered in 2005, threatening war against fellow Muslims who did not follow the Islamic law of handing over part of their income.
 Shortly after the 2005 fiery sermon, the authorities raided the Jamaat compound in search of what they suspected was a large cache of weapons hidden underground. Using a jackhammer to bash in Mr. Abu Bakr's office and dig through his concrete floor, police officers found a rifle, a grenade and hundreds of rounds of ammunition.
 In another case, a member of Jamaat was found guilty in Miami in 2005 of trying to smuggle 70 submachine guns and 10 silencers to Trinidad from the United States. 
 In 2006, Mr. Abu Bakr was found not guilty of ordering the murder of two former members of Jamaat.
 Not least, he has been accused by some of fomenting this island's ethnic and religious divisions. 
 Jamaat is made up of Trinidadians of African descent who converted to Islam in the 1980s after the rise of the Nation of Islam in the United States. Trinidad is about evenly split between blacks and people who trace their ancestry to India, most of them Hindu but also some Muslim, who are 6 percent of the population. 
 Trinidad and Tobago's political parties are largely race-based, with Afro-Caribbeans dominating the ruling People's National Movement and Indians making up the bulk of the United National Congress. 
 A new party, Congress of the People, has sought to bridge the racial divide but it was embarrassed this week when it discovered that one of the suspects, Kareem Ibrahim, was on its membership rolls.
 The same racial divide found in politics exists in the island's religious communities, with most of the country's churches, mosques and temples either black or Indian.
 Jamaat said it is focused on domestic matters, assisting the many people who are left out of the economic boom here and shielding its faithful from Trinidad's famed Carnival.
 Since Jamaat is made up of converts, most participated in the pre-Lenten revelry in the past. ''I had been to Carnival before I became a Muslim,'' said Gail Alonso, who is Mr. Abu Bakr's secretary. ''Now I'm a Muslim, and I don't think I'm missing anything.''
 Children though are bused on excursions to other parts of the island to keep them away from the drinking and dancing, which pass right by the mosque.
 ''Allah says, to them, their ways, and to us, ours,'' said Worris Ballack, a member of the mosque's executive board and a devotee of American television. ''We don't take part in the nakedness in the streets. Our women are covered. We don't follow the wild culture -- and that wild culture here in Trinidad is very wild.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yasin Abu Bakr, Jamaat's imam, photographed in 2001, led a coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990. (Photo by David Gonzalez/The New York Times)
 A mosque in Port of Spain, Trinidad, is the base of Jamaat al Muslimeen, a group that has been linked to some of the men charged with plotting to bomb a fuel pipeline at Kennedy International Airport in New York. (Photo by Shirley Bahdur/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) Map of Trinidad and Tobago highlighting Port of Spain: Jamaat's members shun Port of Spain's raucous annual Carnival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); COUPS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GUYANA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



183 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; FOOTSTEPS TRAVEL PHOTOGRAPHY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: They Came. They Conquered. They Posed.

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:
TOURISM is by some economic measures the largest business in the world. Oil companies, airlines and manufacturers of ski boots, bikinis and chocolate mints for hotel pillows all depend on its vitality. It is also an unsteady business, erected not on our material need to visit Florence or the Grand Tetons but on the illusions that lead us there, or anywhere beyond the horizon of home. 
 Photographers are major purveyors of fantasies, realistic as well as far-fetched, and as such have been crucial to the industry's growth. Vivid as word pictures of the Great Wall of China can be, they don't wow a reader as instantly as a photograph of its pythonic length and girth can transport a viewer. Without enticing images of turquoise waters and ivory sands, the Caribbean would probably be empty of vacationers. The idea of the seaside as a happy destination, a place to shed clothes, worries and inhibitions, is a modern invention, implanted in our heads by photographs and movies. It's no coincidence that the advent of mass tourism, with Thomas Cook's tours in the 1840s, dates to the popularity of the steamship, the railroad and the camera. 
Explorers are glorified tourists, and those who set off in the 19th century, for noble or ignoble purposes, quickly grasped what the new technology might do for their enterprises. A photograph could first of all buttress verbal testimony that you had done what you claimed to have done, or at least that you were there. David Livingstone employed his brother Charles to take pictures on his 1858-64 journey along the Zambezi River in Africa. Their failure to bring back photographs -- Charles was unqualified to handle the equipment in hellish conditions -- did not help charges in newspapers of the time that the mission had been a bust. 
 From then on, few daring treks to anywhere set off without a professional cameraman. Timothy O'Sullivan, who accompanied geologic and military surveys of the American West in the 1860s and '70s, and Andrew J. Russell, hired by the Union Pacific Railroad as it laid track across the country, were both veteran Civil War photographers. Their pictures of desert expanses in Utah and Nevada are now considered works of art, but they were made for sale to the government and the public, in various formats, to help defray the costs of what were long, expensive trips. 
 Even when an expedition was a disaster, as happened frequently when men were racing to the poles during the early decades of the 20th century, photographs could redeem a botched effort. Frank Hurley's plates from Ernest Shackleton's ill-starred trip in 1914-16 to Antarctica on the Endurance supported accounts of the almost unbelievable hardship faced by the crew. Herbert Ponting's movies of Robert Falcon Scott's tour of the region in 1910-13 were supposed to be shown in paying venues on the explorer's triumphant return, a plan that fizzled when Scott was lost and later discovered frozen dead. This hasn't harmed appreciation for Ponting's work, which required its own brand of toughness and courage. 
 To make an independent living, however, photographers have needed to capture dramatic views of places most of us would actually like to visit. Under the right social and political conditions these images can alter the future of the things in the picture. 
 Yosemite Valley was crawling with prospectors and timber merchants when Carleton Watkins visited in 1859-61. It was in part his magnificent stereographs and mammoth-plate (18 by 22 inches) prints of the mountains and forests, images he later sold in his own gallery, that helped to persuade Congress in 1864 to pass legislation that preserved the area as a public trust. Yellowstone became the first national park in 1872, thanks in no small way to Thomas Moran's paintings and William Henry Jackson's photographs of the stunning scenery. 
 The legacy of Watkins and Jackson, crystallized in the pictures and activism of Ansel Adams, illustrates the ability of photographs to idealize certain places and perhaps shelter them against development. For nature tourism to flourish, a country has to show the world it is still dotted with sanctified areas. Photographers have been essential in that movement. 
 As cameras in the 1890s became smaller, cheaper and easier to use, photography was transformed into an amateur's medium. Kodak and other companies advertised the fact that anyone could take a decent snapshot. People recorded family excursions in tiny pictures that went into albums. Photography became a kind of diary. 
 At the same time, the picture postcard industry took off -- sales were 850 million a year by 1910 -- and allowed access to an unparalleled selection of foreign views for pennies apiece. Like the explorer's more hard-fought images, these proved to friends back home that you had been somewhere. Or, even if you hadn't, by perusing a rack of postcards and buying one -- a Gothic cathedral, a remote island -- that was tacked above your desk or bed, they functioned as icons for dreaming. 
 The golden age of the photo magazine (1920s to 1960s) was often as much about delivering the vicarious thrill of travel as documenting war and injustice. The great French weekly Vu, which in the late '20s had sounded the alarm about Hitler, was also packed with features about skiing and the beach. National Geographic magazine became a monthly in 1896 and specialized in pictorial reports about exotic lands.. 
 Artist photographers have more often been globe-trotting tourists than stay-at-homes. Henri Cartier-Bresson and his Leica darted around Europe, the United States and Mexico in the '30s and throughout Asia in the '50s as he went in search of the surreal in everyday life.
 ''The Americans,'' Robert Frank's classic 1959 book, was imagined as a lonesome highway travelogue about his adopted country. It has been said that Mr. Frank ''proved you could photograph anything anywhere.'' Legions of ambitious photographers, from Stephen Shore to Thomas Struth, have tested themselves against this standard, taking pictures all over the place that highlight the world's strange ordinariness. These photographs were often made to combat the smoothly lovely views of places found in commercial travel magazines. 
 The discretion of the camera in relation to the land -- the fact that by taking a picture you are removing something from a scene but disturbing nothing -- has appealed to artists in tune with the ecological movement. Since the '70s the British artist Hamish Fulton has walked 12,000 miles across five continents, along paths as stony as anything seen by O'Sullivan and Russell in the American West. Often the only traces of these journeys are a series of unglamorous black-and-whites, which Mr. Fulton sells to collectors and museums. 
 More-fantastic voyages usually call for more-dramatic images. To help sell the space program to the American taxpayer, NASA shrewdly signed the infamous contract in the '60s with the foremost photography magazine of its time, Life. The trippy pictures of astronauts floating against the blackness of the universe and standing among the wastes of the moon somehow justified the billions spent. Many of us felt we had gone into space because we followed the explorers for years on television and in Life.
 Richard Branson says he believes that space is the next frontier of tourism. The rare chance to view the blue marble of earth from a Virgin Galactic spacecraft will be enough, he hopes, to attract wealthy would-be astronauts for a series of suborbital flights. In a sense, the hard part of the sales pitch was already done by NASA. 
 We know we want to go. Images of life on Mars are tumbling around in our brains. All we need now is the money. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buzz Aldrin walked on the moon in 1969, and Neil Armstrong snapped the scene. Now tourists are signing up for space flights. (Photo by Neil Armstrong/Nasa, via the Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (79%); HIKING (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIRLINES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); SKIING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (73%); CIVIL WAR (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (61%)

COMPANY: THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (55%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (52%)

TICKER: TCG (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (77%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ANTARCTICA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



184 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com State of Connecticut Hartford Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. 
Thursday at 2 p.m. 21 Grand Street. (860) 541-3400. Hartford Hearing on appeal of a site remediation order. Monday and Tuesday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. Hartford Underground Storage Tank Petroleum Clean-Up Account Review Board. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3370. Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3027. Hartford Harborside Associates status conference. Thursday at 2 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. Hartford Connecticut Siting Council hearing on the Connecticut forecast of electric loads and resources. Tuesday at 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Legislative Office Building, 300 Capitol Avenue. (860) 827-2935. Hartford Full commission. Wednesday at 9 a.m. State Elections Enforcement Commission, 20 Trinity Street. (860) 566-1776. Montville MetroCast Communications public hearing. Thursday at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 827-2935. Fairfield County Bethel Bethel High School Building Committee. Thursday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Danbury Commission on Persons With Disabilities. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500. Newtown Charter Revision Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Newtown Town Hall South, 3 Main Street. (203) 426-6470. Redding Historic Properties Committee. Monday at 8:30 a.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Trumbull Board of Finance. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. Hartford County Avon Water Pollution Control Authority. Thursday at 5 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300. Plainville Veterans Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Plainville Municipal Center, 1 Central Square. (860) 793-0221. Litchfield County Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Colebrook Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359. Plymouth Planning and Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Roxbury Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Roxbury Town Hall, 29 North Street. (860) 354-9938. Salisbury Recreation Committee. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182. Washington Inland Wetlands Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Washington Town Hall, 2 Bryan Plaza. (860) 868-2259. Woodbury Board of Selectman. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. Middlesex County Chester Economic Development Commission. Monday at 7:15 p.m. Chester Town Hall, 203 Middlesex Avenue. (860) 526-0013. Portland Planning and Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Portland Town Hall, 33 East Main Street. (860) 342-6715. New Haven County Cheshire Public Safety Committee. Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. Cheshire Town Hall, 84 South Main Street. (203) 271-6660. Madison Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Madison Town Campus, 8 Campus Drive. (203) 245-5672. New London County Lebanon Rails to Trails Committee. Monday at 6:30 p.m. Lebanon Town Hall, 579 Exeter Road. (860) 642-7319. Waterford Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Waterford Town Hall, 15 Rope Ferry Road. (860) 442-0553. Tolland County Andover Board of Education. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Andover Elementary School, 35 School Road. (860) 742-7305. Tolland Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. Windham County Danielson Plan of Conservation and Development. Thursday at 7 p.m. Killingly Town Hall, 172 Main Street. (860) 779-5300. Pomfret Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Pomfret Town Hall, 5 Haven Road. (860) 974-0343.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CITIES (86%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (75%); ZONING (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (70%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (65%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (63%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



185 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: A Crash in Pennsylvania, and a Cloud Over Mott Street

BYLINE: By FIONA NG

 BODY:
Whenever huge calamities strike abroad -- the tsunami in Asia in 2004, say -- New Yorkers know that in their ethnically mixed city there is probably an enclave directly linked to the tragedy. This pattern applies to smaller events, too, like a recent bus crash in Pennsylvania that echoed loudly throughout Chinatown. 
 At 3:30 a.m. May 20, a bus carrying 36 passengers from Chicago to New York went out of control on Interstate 80 in Clearfield County, Pa. The bus zigzagged across the highway and ended up on its side on the road's embankment, leaving 2 people dead and 32 others injured. The cause of the accident is under investigation.
The bus offered the kind of economical interstate transportation popular among Chinese immigrants, and this particular vehicle had many Chinatown residents on it, according to John Yong, a New York lawyer for several of the injured passengers. 
 ''They come to New York as a base; some of them rent a bed and go to another state to work,'' Mr. Yong said. But he said that ''the jobs are never long-term, and they always return to New York.'' 
 The accident made headline news every day in Chinatown newspapers and television, and it was the talk of the neighborhood. ''To what extent do they know about it?'' Mr. Yong asked, rhetorically, about local awareness. ''They know about it absolutely.''
 Guo Fengzhu's account of what happened on that rain-soaked morning was fuzzy, like others'. One minute, she was sleeping on a long-haul bus; the next, she was jolted awake by the sounds of chaos.
 ''I heard screams,'' recalled Ms. Guo, 51. ''I smelled something very strong -- it was gasoline. People around me kept saying we have to get out of the bus, because it might catch fire.'' At their urging, she started crawling her way out.
 With injuries to her right shoulder and neck, Ms. Guo, who had been living in Ohio and working at a restaurant there, will be moving in with her mother and sister in Chinatown while she recuperates. 
 Some of the passengers were illegal immigrants, and for them the accident raised one of their worst fears: having their status revealed.
 ''People I met at the hospital kept asking me two questions: 'Will they find out that I am illegal?' and 'How would I pay my hospital bills?' '' said Steven Wong, director of the Lin Ze Xu Foundation of U.S.A., a community group serving immigrants in Chinatown. ''On the day of the accident, I kept getting calls from different family members. They think there'll be immigration officers at the hospital and were too afraid to go there to visit.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among those injured in an out-of-state accident was Guo Fengzhu, whose family lives in Chinatown. (Photos by Dennis W. Ho for The New York Times
 top left, John Beale/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); TSUNAMIS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); FAMILY (74%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



186 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: A Reluctant Fraternity, Thinking Post-Black

BYLINE: By JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IT was just after 10 on a Saturday night at the California Club, one of the oldest private clubs in town, and the William H. Johnson Foundation gala was winding down. The artist Edgar Arceneaux had received the annual Johnson Prize, and a new lifetime achievement award had just gone to the actor Sidney Poitier.
 Taking a final turn at the microphone, the gala's founder, the Los Angeles art dealer Steve Turner, said, ''Could we have Mr. Poitier join us for a photograph with the artists -- with Edgar, Rodney, Mark, Kori?''
He was referring to Mr. Arceneaux, Rodney McMillian, Mark Bradford and Kori Newkirk, artists who have been either winners or runners-up for the Johnson Prize in the last five years. Judging from the buzz that quickly ensued among collectors and curators in the oak-paneled room, they are viewed as four of the most promising artists to emerge recently in that vast incubator that is Los Angeles. 
 They have all reached a certain level of critical recognition. All share wall space in high-profile private collections. 
 And they all happen to be black, which is no longer an inconceivable thing in the mainstream art world (or at the once-restricted California Club) but is still far from the norm. 
 ''I believe that African-American artists still face more challenges than white artists in the international contemporary art scene,'' said Mr. Turner, who created the William H. Johnson Foundation in 2001 -- the centenary of its namesake, the black painter, who died in 1970 -- to support minority artists early in their careers. (The Johnson Prize, now $25,000, came a year after that.) ''We know that barriers existed in the past, and I don't think it's time to conclude that they have all disappeared.''
 Mr. Turner said barriers persist ''at the very top,'' with the most established museums and biggest collectors. Yet he said he was encouraged by the growing number of black artists represented at art fairs like Art Basel Miami Beach. And he expressed particular enthusiasm for the ''this new group of African-American artists in L.A.'' 
 That is, if they even qualify as a group. This can be a prickly issue, as a sign of success for almost any artist today is to be appreciated as an individual rather than as part of some larger demographic. The issue can be especially loaded for black artists, who have historically been shortchanged and undervalued by being lumped together under ''African-American'' or ''Negro'' labels.
 Still, the various affinities and alliances among these four Los Angeles artists are hard to deny. So is the camaraderie. ''We're all friends, and we all support each other in as many ways as possible,'' Mr. Newkirk said. ''We hang out together. If one of us has an opening, everyone will be there. As artists of color, we all face the same obstacles, so we have been able to band together.''
 While they come from different backgrounds geographically and economically, three of the four attended graduate school at Cal Arts, where they studied with the conceptual artist Charles Gaines. (Mr. Newkirk went to the University of California, Irvine.) Three of them are now in their mid-30s. (The running joke at the gala was that Mr. Bradford, a decade older, is too established to qualify for the ''early career'' award anymore, especially now that he has a solo show opening in September at the Whitney Museum of American Art.) 
 Mr. Newkirk and Mr. Bradford have been included in several group shows and surveys together, including the 2006 Whitney Biennial. Mr. Arceneaux and Mr. McMillian share the same dealer here: Susanne Vielmetter, who has since taken on their mentor Mr. Gaines as well. 
 With his knack for collaborations, Mr. Arceneaux has done a lot to create the impression of a network. He came onto the scene in 2002 with a sprawling installation called ''Rootlessness,'' in which he explored the loaded references to sugar in African-American history by, among other things, dipping a copy of Alex Haley's book ''Roots'' into a sugary solution until it crystallized. 
 ''Of all of my artists,'' Ms. Vielmetter said, ''Edgar is the one who fosters collaboration the most. This kind of openness is at the heart of his work in some way -- having a plan and then opening it up to chance, intuition, improvisation.''
 He worked with Mr. Gaines on a film, ''Snake River,'' for their joint installation at Redcat gallery last year. And he has completed two projects with Mr. McMillian. Now at the Studio Museum in Harlem is their sci-fi riff on Brancusi's ''Endless Column'' sculpture, a collaboration involving three other friends as well. 
 Their first work together, staged at Susanne Vielmetter in 2004, was an exploration of Michael Jackson's weirdly magnetic appeal, featuring videos from his hometown and a black clay sculpture of a sadly deflated balloon.
 As Mr. McMillian describes it, that work came out of a shared obsession with Mr. Jackson's music and physical mutations. ''We are always on the phone or in each other's studio, talking about TV, art, music, family, anything.''
 Still, nobody associated with the artists has been so bold -- or crude -- as to call them a new art movement. Rather, the curators who follow their work suggest that, at most, they all belong to the same rather amorphous generation. 
 The buzzword is ''post-black.'' According to Christine Y. Kim of the Studio Museum in Harlem, this generally refers to ''the generation that came in the wake of the 1990s, when Glenn Ligon, Lorna Simpson and Kara Walker opened up different possibilities -- from painting to text to photography -- for discussing identity, race, politics, love.''
 ''They set up a certain kind of freedom or individualism for artists of color,'' she added.
 In other words the Johnson artists tend to be defined, however paradoxically, by not being defined by their race. This may help to explain why the artists themselves tend to sound such different notes when asked about their artwork. 
 Mr. Bradford, for one, best known for gritty collage-paintings layered with urban references, like billboards that keep getting papered over, insisted on their individuality. 
 ''Our work shouldn't be put in the same box,'' he said.
 Yet Mr. Newkirk, who was in the last Whitney Biennial with his signature beaded curtains made out of hair ornaments and braids, suggests that their work shares a certain kinship. 
 ''We're all making work that can be difficult sometimes, with an incredible investigation into materials and a strong basis in conceptual art,'' he said. ''I would say we're all making work that doesn't hit people over the head with the race conversation anymore. It's a juicy conceptualism-- a ghetto-fabulous conceptualism -- based on reality and the intricacies of daily life.''
 Meanwhile the comedian David Alan Grier, who owns work by all four artists, sees a loose group of artists united by their sense of social purpose. ''I might put Rodney and Edgar in one group and Mark and Kori in another,'' he said, noting that Mr. Bradford and Mr. Newkirk have more painterly concerns. 
 But he soon complicates his own distinction by adding, ''I initially thought Edgar was just intellectual , but he does these beautiful drawings and paintings.'' (When the artist asked Mr. Grier to collaborate on a video about comic timing called ''The Alchemy of Comedy,'' he was no fool. ''I asked for a painting and said, 'Don't make it small and cheesy.' '')
 While their artistic affinities are open to debate, their professional associations are more a matter of record, starting with the Johnson award itself. The existence of the prize is bound to cluster the prizewinners, much as the Turner Prize in Britain helped to define a generation of so-called Young British Artists in the 1990s.
 And of course the Johnson Prize also suggests a lineage, connecting the artists to William Henry Johnson, an African-American who despite poverty and racism managed to dedicate his life to painting. As a student at the National Academy of Design in New York in the 1920s he was passed over for a traveling fellowship to Europe because he was black. According to Mr. Turner, who organized shows of Johnson's work in the 1990s, his instructors pooled money to send him abroad anyway. 
 It was an important trip, one on which he met his future wife, the Danish textile artist Holcha Krake, and found his calling. For unlike his Harlem Renaissance contemporaries, Johnson mainly turned out vivid landscapes of the Scandinavian countryside reminiscent of Gauguin or van Gogh. 
 As it happens, none of the Los Angeles artists who have won awards in Johnson's name express much interest in his post-Impressionist landscapes (nor, for that matter, in the California Impressionist paintings of poppy fields that decorate the walls of the California Club). But they do connect to the challenges of his life. ''I'm not a painter, so the thing that intrigues me the most about Johnson is the fullness of his life and the richness of his intellect,'' Mr. Arceneaux said.
 He said he saw the various Johnson award fund-raisers and ceremonies as a forum for talking about issues of race, class and more. ''This community -- my inner circle of artists -- is interested in having a dialogue that is politically and socially engaged,'' he said. ''The Johnson Foundation is creating another space in L.A. where we can advance ideas and positions.''
 Which raises a question: Is this a new boys' club to counteract the old? 
 Once again it all depends on whom you ask. The ultimate collaborator, Mr. Arceneaux, openly discusses his network as such. ''The art world is so social, and sometimes I'm the only black face in the crowd,'' he said. ''That's part of the reason I work so hard to maintain this community.'' 
 ''My M.O. is simple in terms of how I navigate life and the rocky waters of the art scene,'' he added. ''I align myself with people with whom I think I share the same affinities.''
 Mr. Newkirk also describes a sense of solidarity. ''We will circle the wagons for each other when we need to. We will protect each other.'' But he points out that the Los Angeles art world has plenty of support systems of this kind, which typically take root during art school. ''The other artists have their Cal Arts mafia, and I have my Irvine mafia. But we also have our artists-of-color mafia too.'' 
 When asked about the presence of any black female artists, he shook his head and smiled. ''They all left L.A. to take on New York,'' he said, referring to artists like Kira Lynn Harris, the runner-up for this year's Johnson Prize. The first two Johnson Prize winners, Laylah Ali and Nadine Robinson, are women who have long been based on the East Coast.
 Though he stops short of expressions like mafia, Mr. Bradford describes a kind of collegiality. ''I've had informal conversations with everyone,'' he said. ''And when I moved out of my studio, I called Kori and offered it to him.'' 
 But he does not make too much of race as a factor. ''It's just artists supporting each other, not always because we're black,'' he said. 
 Others also play down any hint of exclusivity. ''I don't see them as a clique,'' said Ms. Kim at the Studio Museum in Harlem, who suggested that this group might appear to be a group for purely superficial reasons. 
 ''If you take 100 people at an art event, and there are 7 black artists talking to each other, it's obvious,'' she said. ''If there are seven white art dealers speaking, you wouldn't even notice them.''
 Mr. McMillian agreed. While noting that he and Mr. Arceneaux like to give each other informal critiques (or ''a kick in the shins'') before exhibitions, he said he did not want to overstate their ties. 
 ''There's huge mutual respect here, but we all have individual practices and lives,'' he said. ''We're not the Algonquin Club.''
 With a nod to the Johnson gala, he added, ''We're only a group when you take a photograph of the group.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 10 about the recipients of prizes awarded by the William H. Johnson Foundation misstated the role of Steve Turner. He is a founder of the organization -- not the founder of the awards gala, which began as a foundation project. The article also omitted another founder. She is Victoria Dailey.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, the ''Endless Column'' project at the Studio Museum of Harlem, a collaboration among Edgar Arceneaux, Rodney McMillian, Vincent Galen Johnson, Olga Koumoundouros and Matthew Sloly. (Photo by Adam Reich/Studio Museum of Harlem)
Above, Mark Bradford's ''America,'' in the Hammer Museum's catalog for the ''Eden's Edge'' show
top, videos by Mr. Arceneaux (left) and Mr. McMillian from ''The Michael Jackson Project''
above right, Kori Newkirk's ''Glint,'' which was in the Whitney Biennial last year. (Photo by Gene Ogami courtesy of Susanne Vielmetter Los Angeles Projects)
(Photo by Gene Ogami courtesy of Susanne Vielmetter Los Angeles Projects)
(Photo by The Project gallery, New York)
(Photo by Hammer Museum, Los Angeles)
 From left, Mark Bradford, David Alan Grier, Kori Newkirk, Edgar Arceneaux, Charles Gaines and Rodney McMillian at the ceremony where Mr. Arceneaux received the Johnson Prize. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); ART COLLECTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); ART DEALERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



187 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: With Few Limits and High Rates, Private Loans Deepen Student-Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the first in her immigrant family to attend college, Lucia DiPoi said she had few clues about financing her college education. So when financial aid and low-interest government loans did not stretch far enough, Ms. DiPoi applied for $49,000 in private loans, too. ''How bad could it be?'' she recalls thinking.
 When Ms. DiPoi graduated from Tufts University in Boston, she found out. With interest, her private loans had reached $65,000 and she owed an additional $19,000 in federal loans. Her monthly tab is $900, with interest rates topping 13 percent on the private loans.
Ms. DiPoi, now 24, quickly gave up her dream to work in an overseas refugee camp. The pay, she said, ''would have been enough for me but not for Sallie Mae,'' her lender. 
 The regulations that the federal Education Department proposed this month to crack down on payments by lenders to universities and their officials were designed to end conflicts of interest that could point students to particular lenders.
 But they do nothing to address a problem that many education officials say may have greater consequences -- more students relying on private loans, which are so unregulated that Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo of New York recently called them the Wild West of lending.
 As college tuition has soared past the stagnant limits on federal aid, private loans have become the fastest-growing sector of the student finance market, more than tripling over five years to $17.3 billion in the 2005-06 school year, according to the College Board. 
 Unlike federal loans, whose interest rates are capped by law -- now at 6.8 percent -- these loans carry variable rates that can reach 20 percent, like credit cards. Mr. Cuomo and Congress are now investigating how lenders set those rates.
 And while federal loans come with safeguards against students' overextending themselves, private loans have no such limits. Students are piling up debts as high as $100,000. 
 Banks and lenders face negligible risk from allowing students to take out large sums. In the federal overhaul of the bankruptcy law in 2005, lenders won a provision that makes it virtually impossible to discharge private student loans in bankruptcy. Previously such provisions had only applied to federal loans, as a way to protect the taxpayer against defaulting by students. 
 While federal loans also allow borrowers myriad chances to reduce or defer payments for hardship, private loans typically do not. And many private loan agreements make it impossible for students to reduce the principal by paying extra each month unless they are paying off the entire loan. Officials say they are troubled by the amount of debt that loan companies and colleges are encouraging students to take on. 
 ''It's a huge problem,'' said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. ''When a student signs the paper for these loans, they are basically signing an indenture,'' Mr. Nassirian said. ''We're indebting these kids for life.''
 Dozens of students interviewed said that when they signed for their loans they were unclear on what interest rate they were getting and that financial aid counselors discussing repayment failed to include interest that students were compounding while in college. The lenders say they are providing a valuable service, helping students who might otherwise not be able to afford college. Tom Joyce, a spokesman for Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student lender, said the company's average interest rate on private student loans was just over 10 percent and that the typical borrower was a young person with little or no credit history and no collateral. 
 ''What would the credit card interest rate be for that borrower -- 24, 25 percent?'' Mr. Joyce asked. ''Our goal is to make it possible for students to graduate.''
 But various members of Congress are now looking at ways to tighten oversight of private student loans.
 The large growth in private loans -- once confined primarily to graduate students -- largely comes from steep increases in tuition, which have outpaced inflation and federal aid, and an increasing reluctance among parents to take on more debt.
 For the last 15 years, the limits on the most common federal loans have stagnated at $17,125 for four years. They will increase slightly starting next month. In addition, loan companies have also come to realize that such loans can be hugely profitable.
 Although the federal Education Department has no jurisdiction over private student loans, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings recently pledged to convene the agencies that do, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 Research by the U.S. Public Interest Research Group and others show that some students are taking private loans before exhausting their eligibility for low-interest, fixed-rate federal loans.
 Janea Morgan, 25, a 2006 graduate of California College San Diego, said that college officials had her fill out the federal financial aid form but never tapped federal loans. Instead, she said, they steered her to a private loan with KeyBank, at an interest rate that could rise four times a year, with no cap. 
 Now, she is carrying $46,000 in private loans at 9.22 percent interest, which she fears may rise beyond her ability to pay. Ms. Morgan said that when she asked college officials why they bypassed federal loans, ''They said it would take too long.''
 Barbara Thomas, vice president and chief operating officer at California College San Diego, said that she could not discuss Ms. Morgan's situation because of privacy laws, but that generally students sometimes took too long to fill out the federal financial aid application properly. ''It's a time thing that kids have to work with,'' Ms. Thomas said.
 Sometimes marketing is at work. Last September, the United States Student Association complained to the Federal Trade Commission that a major private lending program, Loan to Learn, made ''false and deceptive claims'' in a brochure called ''Demystifying Financial Aid.''
 According to the complaint, the brochure stated inaccurately that ''most government loans are need-based,'' suggested that federal loans could not be used for education-related costs like computers and books, and that there were ''strict deadlines'' on applying for federal loans. In fact, students can get federal loans to pay for educational expenses, even retroactively.
 George C. Pappas, a spokesman for Loan to Learn, dismissed the complaint as ''absolutely ridiculous.'' Nevertheless, EduCap, the parent company, has removed the passages from the guide. The F.T.C. declined to comment on Loan to Learn. 
 Students with private loans can be caught by surprise at how adjustable interest rates allow debt to swell. 
 Sean Craig Hicks, 35, attended the Westwood College of Aviation Technology, now known as Redstone College, in Broomfield, Colo., from 1997-2000 in the hope of becoming an airplane mechanic. He said a financial aid officer gave him an application for a $6,000 private loan through Wells Fargo to help pay outstanding expenses just before graduation. On the school's hall walls, he said, were fliers for Wells Fargo loans. ''You trust those people when they tell you this is the one to go with,'' Mr. Hicks said.
 Mr. Hicks said his loan documents had promised that if he paid the minimum due each month, he would pay off the loan by 2010. Instead, after six years of payments, most of them on time, he owes $100 more than when he took out the loan.
 A spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, Mary Berg, confirmed that Mr. Hicks held a student loan, but called the dealings with him a private matter. Officials at Redstone College did not respond to requests for comment.
 Many students out of dozens interviewed said it was not particularly clear what interest rate they had signed up for. 
 Take Attila Valyi, a Motorola employee in Plantation, Fla. Eager to jump-start his education, he turned to American InterContinental University, a for-profit institution offering a bachelor's degree in 13 months. But discovering how much the diploma would cost was an endeavor worthy of a dissertation.
 While the $28,000 tuition was no secret, Mr. Valyi said that at the urging of university officials, he had signed an application for a loan that doubled as a pledge to pay the money back. It did not indicate an interest rate. He took out two more loans before getting his bachelor's degree, realizing only when it was too late, he said, that he carried loans at three different interest rates that could rise from month to month, the largest for $10,745 at 18 percent. 
 When Mr. Valyi, 30, contacted the lender, Sallie Mae, to refinance, he said he was told he could not do so until he graduated. ''You're locked in at 18 percent,'' he said he was told. 
 Martha Holler, a spokeswoman for Sallie Mae, said Mr. Valyi and other borrowers of those years would have been told, during the application process and in an approval letter, the interest rate as a percentage above the prime rate. And they were free to cancel, up to 30 days after the money went to the school.
 Lynne Baker, a spokeswoman for the Career Education Corporation, which owns American InterContinental and scores of other for-profit colleges, said that the corporation did not track individual student interest rates and that whether to pay such rates was the students' decision. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lucia DiPoi, 24, a graduate of Tufts University in Boston, must pay $900 a month largely in private loans. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
 Janea Morgan, a 2006 graduate, said her college steered her toward private loans over federal ones. She owes $46,000 at 9 percent interest. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times) Chart: ''Rise in Private Loans for College'' Graphs track the following since 1995: College loan volume from private lenders, adjusted for inflation. Private loan volume as a percentage of all federal and private loans. (Source by College Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



188 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; RESIDENTS/WORKERS; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 4655 words

HEADLINE: Shop Stewards On Fantasy Island?

BYLINE: By Mimi Swartz. 
Mimi Swartz is an executive editor at Texas Monthly.

 BODY:
One thing that can be said about the war for Fisher Island is that everyone involved wants only what's best for the place. This 216-acre property with 34 sprawling Mediterranean-style luxury condominium buildings sits conveniently surrounded by Miami Beach, the city of Miami, Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean. It is an island paradise containing every possible indulgence that someone with a great deal of money and an enormous need to be coddled might desire. Fisher Island's fortunate 1,400, fewer than one-third of them full-time residents, can play on the golf course created by P. B. Dye, of the famed course-design family, or on one of 18 tennis courts -- clay, grass and hard court surfaces. There are two marinas -- one for large yachts and one for larger yachts -- and a state-of-the-art gym, complete with a Roman waterfall for aching backs and, along with yoga and Pilates, classes with names like Waves of Steel and Esto Es Tango! 
 The sand on the beach is imported from the Bahamas and cleared daily of seaweed, so it is always soft and white. There are swimming pools, not just at the health spa, but also in each condo complex. Perpetually blooming tropical flowers perfume the air; caged toucans twitter in banyan trees, flamingos wade lazily in their own private pond. Kids attend a special island private school where cameras, wired into the condos, allow anxious parents to monitor their offspring from home; the playground, naturally, is gently padded.
Fisher Island residents expect the best because, even though they come from all over the globe -- the U.S., South America, Europe or Asia -- they all have one thing in common, which is that they are among the world's wealthiest people. The 2000 census described the island as having the highest per capita income in the United States; the average net worth of the grown-up inhabitants has been estimated at around $10 million. In a lot of ways, it's a very precious small town, or as one resident put it, ''This is really like a little 'Mayberry R.F.D.' '' 
 This Mayberry, however, is only accessible by ferry or private helicopter or seaplane. The curious who linger too long at the island's ferry station just off Miami's MacArthur Causeway inevitably come face to face with uniformed, clipboard-wielding security guards wearing the obligatory aviator sunglasses, who will explain politely but in no uncertain terms that no one makes the crossing without authorization from an island resident. But this much-prized seclusion -- evoking both the White House and the most exclusive 1980s Manhattan nightclub -- is currently threatened with the massing on the mainland of the Service Employees International Union. Organizers are trying to convince the island's residents that the people who trim their hibiscus hedges, wipe smudges off their porticos and change the sheets at the Fisher Island Hotel and Resort (suites: $1,200 a night) deserve better than a starting wage of as little as $8.50 an hour. The workers themselves -- many of them immigrants -- readily agree that it's nearly impossible to support a family on $17,680 a year, but organizers are still trying to persuade enough of them that joining a union will make matters better.
 You could say that the trouble between the people who live on Fisher Island and the people who work there began with a shrewd, combative man named Stephen Lerner, who is in charge of organizing janitors, landscapers, housekeepers and kitchen workers nationally for the S.E.I.U., headquartered in Washington. For some time, Lerner, 49, had been looking for a way to fight growing income inequities around the country, but at the same time to ask, in a metaphorical way, just what kind of country America was becoming by allowing those inequities to persist. He saw people happy to spend money on tanning butlers and poodle pedicures but unwilling to pay more to those who made their pampered lives possible -- those who almost invisibly cleaned up after them. 
 Lerner, who has dark eager eyes and an intense, ironic manner, never went to college -- he was busy organizing farmworkers as a young man in the 1970s and has been organizing ever since -- but he has always been a reader and a thinker. Over time, he became intrigued with the notion that we are now less a world of nations than one of global cities that serve as corporate and financial trade capitals. The prosperous and powerful -- corporate executives, investment bankers, private-equity firm managers -- conduct their business from London or New York or Singapore or Dubai while the poor follow in their wake, hoping to escape their lot by working for the international corporations that serve them, providing janitorial, landscaping and security services. ''Workers everywhere have the same employers,'' Lerner likes to say. Eventually he began to wonder whether there might be a place where he could shift that dynamic: a locale with wealthy residents and poor workers, and nothing in between. A place where a union like his could show the rich how easy it would be to propel the less fortunate into the rapidly disappearing American middle class.
 Then, while organizing janitors at three Miami-area universities last year, Lerner began to hear talk of an island where people with stratospheric wealth were tended by workers making near poverty-level wages. Fisher Island, it seemed to Lerner, was the perfect microcosm of, and the perfect metaphor for, the growing divide between rich and poor, not just in Miami, but in South Florida, the U.S. and beyond. ''This is not a traditional union campaign,'' he told me of the struggle for Fisher Island. ''This is a fight for what kind of world we are going to have.'' And then Stephen Lerner grinned, like a man taking aim at a very large target he couldn't wait to hit. 
 To the untrained eye, Miami looks like a gleaming, modern Xanadu. The high-rise condos that stretch past Boca Raton, the glamorous South Beach hotel guests chattering in English, Spanish, German and Portuguese, the building cranes dotting the skyline all suggest a mind-boggling, global prosperity. As more land is filled and more luxury high-rises built, more jobs are created; Miami's unemployment rate is a slim 3.4 percent. But there has been surprisingly little trickle down to the city's poorest residents, many of them immigrants from Haiti and South and Central America. Most of the new jobs are at the bottom of the income scale. According to a Census Bureau survey of cities conducted in 2005, Miami ranked close to the bottom for annual household median income -- $25,211. Twenty-eight percent of its residents live in poverty, according to the same survey, the third-highest poverty rate in the nation behind Cleveland and Detroit. The same luxury buildings that create jobs have also displaced potential workers; developers have razed low-income neighborhoods to make way for wealthier newcomers, mostly from Europe and South America, who see Miami as a perfect spot for second, third or fourth homes.
 The income disparity in Miami has become a cause celA<8>bre for community organizers and local government officials. Miami Dade passed a living-wage ordinance for all county employees, raising their hourly rate from $6.40 to $9.81 with medical coverage, or $11.23 without. When Miami was host to the Super Bowl this year, representatives of several community groups offered tours of ''the Other Miami,'' inviting visitors to see the poverty and homelessness wrought by the new prosperity. Miami has the highest percentage of immigrants of any city in the world -- 60 percent of its population -- and it is an article of faith among community organizers that many of the wealthiest immigrants from the developing world have brought their attitudes toward the poor with them. 
 For all these reasons, there was no better place than South Florida for the S.E.I.U. to underscore income inequality in America, and in 2004, the union set up camp. The employers of the area's estimated 80,000 property service workers in the condo and hotel industries include large contracting firms like CSI International and the Continental Group. But the union calculated that lasting change would require a moral crusade that stripped away the buffer between the employer and the consumer. The union would have to make property owners see the connection between choosing a low-cost contractor and paying low wages to workers. ''This is the choice the wealthy have to make in Europe and the U.S. -- that there are minimum standards of decency that let people live a normal life,'' Lerner told me.
 The S.E.I.U. started by organizing janitors at local universities where, after a bitter struggle that included a well-publicized hunger strike, they were successful at forcing the University of Miami and later Florida International University and NOVA Southeastern University to raise wages and health care standards for their workers. (So far, the janitors at the University of Miami and F.I.U. have joined a union.) Fisher Island was next. ''This is the way the rich are protecting themselves against the unpleasantness growing just outside their walls,'' Lerner said. ''But in the end what they want is unsustainable,'' Unhappy workers would, eventually, make for an unhappy island. The union hoped the people of Fisher Island might just see it that way too. 
 That notion struck me as overly optimistic after I made my first visit to Fisher Island. 
 My tour guide for the day was Larry Rivero, who lives in a condo filled with art by the likes of Frank Stella and George Segal and is, he told me, ''the No.1 resident Realtor on the island.'' Rivero, a 46-year-old of Cuban descent, is handsome and fit and fervent about the island. We sat at the beach club eating freshly scrambled eggs, while all around us cheerful workers dusted off beach chaises, set tables and proffered steaming, sweet-smelling coffee.
 Rivero loves living on Fisher Island, and he generously enumerated its many appealing qualities. He loves the golf carts that residents have customized into mini-replicas of Hummers and Mercedeses (''People here are very competitive,'' he said); he loves the underground parking lots filled with McLarens and Lamborghinis. He loves the rare birds that are walked once a day by the island's bird specialist. He loves the international camaraderie, which allows him to visit pals in Greece in the off-season. ''Very few people live here year-round,'' he told me. ''It's a fourth home for most of the residents, and the average stay on the island is two or three months.'' Even so, people who once wanted 7,000-square foot units now want 10 or 15. ''It's all upgrade, upgrade, upgrade,'' Rivero said.
 It's to Rivero's liking, too, that there are many self-made and youngish residents on the island. ''This is not Palm Beach,'' he said, making the distinction between Fisher Island and fusty old-money haunts. Celebrities have at times owned property -- Oprah Winfrey and Mel Brooks -- but most of the inhabitants are not household names. Above all, Rivero experiences Fisher Island as a refuge. It's a place where wealth can be both celebrated and forgotten. (In fact, cash is almost unnecessary on Fisher Island; commerce is conducted just by using your membership card.) ''The ferry makes a cutoff,'' Rivero said. ''It really does.'' 
 Indeed, what becomes obvious on the island is first apparent on the ferry: there are only two kinds of people boarding. Rich people, many in expensive cars, and servants, who board on foot and take their spots on benches for the seven-minute ride. Residents and their guests retire to another lounge. ''They are the same, just separate,'' Rivero said. 
 One afternoon in April, the drivers of Mercedeses and Bentleys cruised onto the Fisher Island ferry, while several representatives of the S.E.I.U. -- young people, mostly, wearing the union's purple polo shirts -- occupied a parking lot. They passed out brightly colored fliers in English and Spanish with captioned photographs of pro-union island workers. Chester Perez, for instance, said he had ''to work a second job just to pay the bills.'' Prospere Raymond wanted ''an affordable family insurance plan.'' A lot of the workers avoided organizers' outstretched arms or failed to meet their eyes. 
 The S.E.I.U. is asking for lower insurance premiums and more job security for workers, but mostly it is pushing for a higher starting wage -- something that would bring employees into the middle class. The organizers from Local 11, the S.E.I.U.'s Miami branch, have been collecting signature cards supporting a union. A majority of the workers in each division -- landscapers, housekeepers, etc. -- must sign the cards before the union can represent them. The S.E.I.U. will not say how many Fisher Island workers have signed so far, but it is determined not to be stymied in its efforts to unionize the island, as the Teamsters were in their 2003 campaign.
 This time around, the S.E.I.U. is taking the organizing drive to the residents, trying to force them to see the invisible workers as human beings, with bills to pay and kids to educate. That, at least, was Plan A. Being somewhat naive about the way the rich regard their riches, the union initially prepared a Power Point presentation on Miami's economic divide that included an illustration showing that raising the salaries of 360 workers to $30,000 a year would cost island residents $3.4 million annually, equal to the cost of one yacht, 15 new Bentleys ($200,000 each) or 14 golf memberships ($250,000 each). Behind the good intentions and good humor -- only $3.4 million! -- was an implied threat. This was Plan B, which would consist of shaming the residents if they couldn't be persuaded. 
 The union organizers began interviewing workers, compiling dramatic stories of economic struggle they subsequently dispersed on fliers and passed on to journalists. One employee, ''punished for his ill health,'' was busted down from landscaper to dishwasher, and from $9.94 to $8.15 an hour. Another collapsed and died on the golf course after returning to work too soon after surgery because he had no sick days. (Mark James, the president of the Fisher Island Community Association, would not discuss the specifics of these cases but said the current management was trying to address worker issues.) Organizers found that some residents on the island paid their personal servants good wages -- $20 an hour or more -- but were content that the landscapers, busboys, janitors and other help were paid much lower wages. 
 For all the metaphorical appeal of the stark income inequality on Fisher Island, the situation on the ground is more complicated. The lowest salaries on Fisher Island are higher for unskilled work than many places in Miami. In fact, David Hammond, executive vice president of CSI, which provides various workers to Fisher Island, told me that some mainland commercial office cleaners still earn minimum wage. Moreover people on the island are quick to point out that the island workers get a 401(k) with a company match, vouchers for vending machines and health insurance. 
 Of course offering health insurance is one thing; being able to use it is another. Health insurance premiums, especially family rates, which can be as high as $420 a month, are too expensive for most hourly workers to afford, Lerner contends. Lerner would like Fisher Island to pay more for contractors who in turn agree to pay higher wages and offer affordable health insurance. After all, the union's thinking goes, they can afford it. 
 In the fall of 2006, the union began implementing Plan A -- an appeal to the Fisher Island residents' moral sense. The union called on local religious leaders and workers who had already helped in the university campaigns. At the union's urging, two members of South Florida Interfaith Worker Justice, the Rev. Frank J. Corbishley and Rabbi Rebecca Lillian, sent a letter in late November to every Fisher Island resident, asking them to support workers' right to a union. ''We are reaching out to you to begin a discussion on the lives of the janitors, maids, groundskeepers and other workers who loyally serve you every day,'' the letter began, and went on to explain that these workers had to choose between paying bills or medical care and that they lived in crowded apartments, constantly fearing homelessness. The letter suggested the residents could make an enormous difference in the lives of those who suffered ''serious and tragic poverty'' in their midst. 
 The religious leaders waited, and waited, for a response. They got two. One was a fax offering help. The other missive said this: ''We don't want a union. We're against organized crime.''
 If there were a polar opposite to Stephen Lerner, it would be Mark James, who became the president of the Fisher Island Community Association in April. FICA is the governing body responsible for maintaining the island's common areas, the ferries and island security. (The Fisher Island Club controls the golf and beach clubs, commercial centers and the mansion that houses the hotel. Fisher Island Holdings owns the development rights to the remaining parcels of land, including unsold condos.) 
 James is a tall, elegant man, a Georgian who spent a lot of time working in property management for Tishman Speyer, the global real estate firm. Thoughtful and unflappable, James evokes no one so much as the small-town family doctor of 1950s lore.
 His leadership could signal a significant break with the island's past, which has been fractious and divisive. Miami's first African-American millionaire, Dana Albert Dorsey, bought the property in 1918, hoping to turn it into a resort for blacks, who were then prohibited by segregation from other beaches. From there it passed to Carl Fisher, the developer of Miami Beach, and then to William K. Vanderbilt II, who built the mansion that still bears his name on the island. A mystique of wealth and exclusivity was cultivated with varying success over the next few decades, as developers struggled to make the island a commercial success. ''Without a bridge, we can maintain one helluva lot of snob appeal,'' William Rebozo, a developer and the nephew of Nixon crony Charles ''Bebe'' Rebozo, told a reporter for Palm Beach Life in 1983. 
 Enjoying the cantankerousness of the residents became something of a local spectator sport. They sued in 1997 over the quality of the ferry service. Things got worse when John J. Melk, a Chicago financier, bought the island with partners in 1998. Civil war broke out over Melk's intention to put more units on the island. His nemesis at the time was Isidore ''Skippy'' Pines, the former owner of Hebrew National. Pines staged anti-Melk demonstrations, defying security guards by passing out leaflets and advertising his protest on a billboard on the MacArthur Causeway. Melk, in turn, was accused of prompting two suspensions of Pines's golf club membership. ''It's a war between the haves, the have mores and the have so much we can't even count,'' Melk's attorney told the press at the time.
 In 2004, years after Pines accused one of Melk's allies of trying to run him over with a golf cart, Melk sold his development rights to a European investment group, which bought the island through its subsidiary Fisher Island Investment. As of April, all remaining lawsuits were settled, and the island's population was ready to start fresh. 
 James and I met for coffee at his favorite spot, on the veranda of the golf-course clubhouse. His current mandate, besides overseeing the island's day-to-day operations, is to help effect a $25 million upgrade intended to bring Fisher Island up to a five-star standard. ''When I walk the island and I look very closely I see enormous opportunities to transform it into the finest resort in the world,'' he told me. James does have a keen eye for flaws: hibiscus that isn't trimmed properly, a lack of color in the landscaping; perfection, he said, would also include ''smiling, productive employees who are welcoming.''
 James's father was a member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. ''I have great respect for unions in general,'' he told me. ''But at Fisher Island I don't think we need one.'' In his carefully chosen words, one can sense a man who is walking a fine line. The people on the island are ''caring,'' James said, and FICA and the Fisher Island Club, which employ about 600 workers, seek to pay ''at market level or better'' and offer good health insurance. The union is unfairly making a scapegoat of Fisher Island because of its ''marquee appeal.'' ''If I were a union organizer,'' James said, ''I would target an affluent island and I would make speeches and allegations in order to support my primary goal to organize the island.'' The real villains, he asserted, are not the residents, but the contractors and subcontractors who employ at least a quarter of the island's workers.
 James's words came back to me later, when I talked to Hammond, of the contractor CSI. Hammond agreed that the union was attacking the island unfairly, but he also complained about the island management. Contractors are only trying to get the job, he contended, and they had to offer competitive prices to do so. ''The residents are telling us what they want to see the employees paid,'' Hammond told me. ''The residents beat up the contractors because they don't want to pay more.''
 So who is ultimately responsible for setting wages? And why does no one want to claim responsibility? Talking to James, I felt that I was being instructed in island paternalism: its governing boards can determine what's best for the employees and they need no input from unions. ''My father worked in a hierarchical company -- a very large one -- and the only way that his group could get attention was by being active with the union. That is not the case with the employee population on a 216-acre island with at times as many employees as owners.'' The rigidity of union rules offends him. ''I don't believe that is healthy for the employees at large,'' he said.
 Like Lerner, James knows that unhappy workers make for unpleasant surroundings, and that a failure to attract good workers would be devastating to the island's ambitions. ''I intend to fix this and be vigilant because I do care about the workers and their quality of life,'' James said. ''I do want them in the middle class. I just don't believe we need a union to get them there.'' 
 Last month I went with Jean Souffrant and Louis Henry, two Haitian S.E.I.U. organizers, to the small North Miami home of a Fisher Island worker, a Haitian immigrant who works on the golf course that costs about $1.4 million a year to maintain. The man, J., had allowed organizers to use his name and photo on a flier, but now was reluctant to say more. He was a proud man whose defeated eyes kept darting to the next room, where his children were gaily watching cartoons. His wife was cooking a stew in the kitchen. Their home was spotless, the good living room furniture covered in plastic. A breakfront in an antique style was filled with the family's treasures.
 J., who is in his 50s, said he initially hoped the S.E.I.U. could increase his wages from the $10.58 an hour he now earns. But lately he felt his job, which he has held for four years, might be in jeopardy. As the S.E.I.U. stepped up its efforts, J. echoed the concerns of other employees. Other,more senior employees had been let go, and there reportedly had been a mandatory meeting during which the anti-union film, ''Little Card, Big Trouble,'' was shown. (James, the association president, says that ''There's not an attempt here to repress people. That's absurd.'') A climate of fear spread among the workers on the island. ''I'm very careful,'' J. told me. ''My job -- I like it,'' ''If there's a problem for me there's a problem for my family.'' 
 In visiting homes like this, it is possible to see the shrinking of the American dream. Chester Perez, a landscaper, has been able to send his son to Miami Dade College, but while he takes home $1,680 a month from his job on Fisher Island, his monthly expenditures total $1,820. He works as a handyman at his apartment complex to make up the difference. The employees I spoke with weren't resentful of the island's residents and did not begrudge them their wealth. On the contrary, they said they believed that if the residents only understood how difficult it was to carry a family on little more than $8 or $10 an hour, they would surely want to pay more. 
 Souffrant and Henry spoke to J. in Creole and learned that many landscapers had recently been called in for evaluations, a normal event in the corporate world, but one frightening to the workers because it had never happened before. ''He doesn't want to talk,'' Henry told me, and J. did seem near tears, torn between the promise of a better life and the fear of losing the one he has. He seemed relieved when the organizers got up to leave. They embraced, and he walked them the few short steps to the front door. Henry didn't want to push him. ''I will give him a call,'' he told me afterward.
 On May 4, a scorching afternoon that signaled an end to spring in Miami, the S.E.I.U. held a rally on the patch of land between the Fisher Island ferry and the MacArthur Causeway. In the beginning, the crowd of about 60 contained mostly union organizers and their community supporters, with some of the janitors who had successfully won higher wages at the local universities. People sang a Haitian song and carried banners that said ''Si Se Puede!'' and ''Wi Nou Kapab!'' Spanish and Creole for ''Yes We Can.'' But once the janitors from the University of Miami and the other schools realized that workers were debarking from the ferry, they began approaching the boat, waving banners, encouraging the Fisher Island workers to join in. The crowd grew, and so did the anxiety of some of the residents waiting for the ferry. One of them jumped out of her car and pushed herself between a reporter for The Miami Herald and the young organizer she was interviewing. 
 ''Why are you making all this racket and disturbing our privacy?'' the woman demanded.
 The organizer offered her a flier. 
 ''Stop harassing me!'' the woman cried, backing away. ''Stop harassing me!'' 
 A few days later, Jose Rojas, who had worked at one of Fisher Island's restaurants for six years, was fired. Rojas, however, had attended the worker rally, and so his firing gave the S.E.I.U. the opening it needed to file charges with the National Labor Relations Board. In its complaint, the union accused island governing bodies of ''illegally prohibiting workers from speaking about the union on work time, banning workers from access to the ferry area while off duty and for illegal threats of termination if employees sign a union petition.'' 
 The organizers were thrilled that the battle had been joined. ''I'm incredibly optimistic that we are at a turning point,'' Stephen Lerner told me, speaking in macro, not micro terms. ''If there's enough money to pay someone to walk your bird, there's enough money to pay for health care.'' He's planning more public actions. Maybe a barbecue on a Fisher Island Beach at low tide, when even private beaches in Miami become public. Maybe some faux pirate ships trawling the waters between Fisher Island and Miami Beach. 
 Whatever comes next, the moral crusade is catching on. Last month, the Fisher Island Community Association decided that its landscaping employees would all receive a starting salary of at least $10 an hour. ''It was,'' Mark James said, ''the right thing to do.'' 
 The chart shows that the bottom 20 percent of income earners spend the highest portion of their wages on housing. (Chart by Linda Eckstein) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Days in the sun: Fisher Island employees spend their days resurfacing tennis courts, cleaning pools and mowing lawns for some of the world's wealthiest citizens. For many, however, yearly wages amount to less than the cost of some sailboats. (Photographs By Christopher Morris/VIIi, for The New York Times) Chart: ''Holding On To Home''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); FERRIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (82%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BEACHES (77%); YOGA (72%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); GOLF (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (69%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); CENSUS (65%); HELICOPTERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



189 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Thomas, Patrick Bayard

 BODY:
Michelle Rae Thomas and Patrick Bayard were married yesterday in Chicago. The Rev. Daniel Mallette performed the ceremony at St. Margaret of Scotland Roman Catholic Church. 
 Mrs. Bayard, 32, is the director of surveillance in the Chicago office of Fitch Ratings, a New York credit rating agency, where she monitors the financial performance of commercial mortgage-backed securities. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in city and regional planning from Rutgers.
Her mother, Judge Jacqueline Cox of Chicago, sits on the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
 Mr. Bayard, 36, is a program officer at the Grand Victoria Foundation, a Chicago organization that provides money to nonprofit groups in Illinois for education, the environment and economic development. He is an adjunct professor of business at East-West University and of public administration at the Illinois Institute of Technology, both in Chicago. He is also on the board of the Enterprising Kitchen, a nonprofit organization in Chicago that provides job training for low-income women. He graduated from Hofstra and has two master's degree, one in management from St. Thomas University in Miami Gardens, Fla., and the other in urban planning from the University of Illinois.
 His mother, Josette Bayard of Miami, is a retired registered nurse. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Michael Candid Wedding Photographers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); RELIGION (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (56%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



190 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-10-07; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: The Inequality Conundrum

BYLINE: By Roger Lowenstein. 
Roger Lowenstein is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
In 1976, Richard Freeman wrote a book called ''The Overeducated American.'' So many Americans had been getting college degrees that the relative wages of white-collar professionals had started to fall. It no longer paid to go to college and, for most of the '70s, fewer people did. Just so, incomes of the educated began to rise again.
People like Freeman, a labor-market economist, waited for the cycle to turn. They expected that with white-collar types riding high again, more people would stay in school, and incomes at the top would level off once more. 
 But they never did. Instead, the rich kept getting richer. Across the spectrum of American society, the higher your income category, the more your income continued to grow. And for a quarter-century, albeit with zigs and zags along the way, that rich-get-richer pattern has held. The figures are striking. In 2004, according to the Congressional Budget Office's latest official analysis, households in the lowest quintile of the country were making only 2 percent more (adjusted for inflation) than they were in 1979. Those in the next quintile managed only an 11 percent rise. And the middle group was up 15 percent. Do you sense a pattern? The income of families in the fourth quintile -- upper-middle-class folks with an average yearly income of $82,000 -- rose by 23 percent. Only when you get to the top quintile were the gains truly big -- 63 percent.
 Numbers like that have made inequality a hot topic, not only for liberals but also for Bush administration officials like Henry Paulson, the secretary of the Treasury. The press is full of stories of the outlandish wages of the superrich, like the 25 hedge-fund managers who each earned at least $240 million last year (the top dog took home $1.7 billion). Democrats are giving tougher scrutiny to trade bills and are now thinking the unthinkable: tax hikes for the rich. Inequality ''isn't good as an economic matter,'' says Steven Rattner, an investment manager and contributor to Democratic politicians, ''and it's not good as a moral or social matter.'' Writing in The Boston Globe, the columnist James Carroll said the current economic system is ''eroding democracy'' by awarding a larger share of the economic pie to the very rich and ''impoverishing more and more human beings.''
 The evidence for the last point is rather scant. The millions made by hedge-fund traders, or by entrepreneurs who founded companies like Google, don't diminish other people's wages. Indeed, each helps to make the pie bigger. But what puzzled Freeman remains a mystery to this day. Why isn't prosperity spreading more equally? The leading theory has been that a global, high-tech economy creates big winners and losers. That is surely part of it. But Europe has computers, too, so where are all of its billionaires?
 Countries like Sweden are more equal, but to some economists, they are probably too equal. There is a rough trade-off between equality and growth: if you try too hard to make everyone equal, you get fewer entrepreneurs, fewer Silicon Valleys and a lower standard of living. Freeman, who is generally pro-union, says Sweden's converging pay scales led to unemployment and deficits in the early '90s, when it belatedly moved to create more incentives. Similarly, Gary Becker, a Nobel-winning economist, recalls visiting factories in Communist China in 1981: the workers were all lazing around. Now China has billionaires and the country is growing like Topsy.
 You can boil down most economic policy debates -- starting with Hamilton versus Jefferson and moving to Bush versus the Democrats -- to this tension: how can you promote equality without killing off the genie of American prosperity? The trade-off is clear at the extremes but fuzzier in the middle. A little redistribution, cleverly designed, doesn't hurt. One example might have occurred during the late '90s. The stock market was crowning multimillionaires, but the poor also did a little better. Among households with children, cash earnings of the poorest quintile doubled (though their earnings, at $13,000, remained meager and have tapered off more recently). 
 Most of the improvement at the bottom was because of people working more hours rather than for higher wages: a red-hot economy provided more jobs. The retooled federal welfare program, however, as well as the expansion of the earned-income tax credit (E.I.T.C.), gave people an added financial incentive to work. 
 Some redistribution is clearly good for the entire economy -- providing public schooling, for instance, so that everyone gets an education. But public education aside, the United States has a pretty high tolerance for inequality. Americans care about ''fairness'' more than about ''equalness.'' We boo athletes suspected of taking steroids, but we admire billionaires. 
 The extreme divergence of American incomes we see today, however, is actually rather new. For most of the 20th century, America was becoming more egalitarian. The United States seemingly conformed to the standard theory of development, which held that industrialization produces fat cats at first (as factory owners rake it in) and then a more general prosperity as workers become more productive. It's a feel-good theory that says, ''Don't worry if the rich are prospering; the poor will have their day.''
 Emmanuel Saez, a French economist at the University of California at Berkeley who studies American inequality, looked more closely and discovered that theory and history didn't quite mesh. Saez and his colleague, Thomas Piketty (who is based in Paris), plotted income distributions in America back to 1913. The share of income enjoyed by the rich was high in the 1920s, then stable or falling during most of the next half-century. In the '70s, the cycle seemed to start again -- perhaps because ''a new industrial revolution'' (in technology) inspired a renewed period of inequality.
 But Saez noticed some inconsistencies. During the '40s, the share of those at the top fell very steeply. He doubted that a gradual process like industrialization could have caused it. More likely, the culprit was the combined shock of the Great Depression and World War II, when the United States imposed wage controls. That left a puzzle: Why didn't top earners recover their shares soon after the war?
 Saez hypothesized that the answer lay with various nonmarket factors. Some were institutional, like the strength of postwar labor unions. Some were cultural, like the reluctance of boards to pay their chief executives an unseemly amount. The progressive tax code prevented accumulations by the upper crust and thus reduced how much they could earn in the future.
 By the '70s, the share of income earned by those at the top was far lower than when Woodrow Wilson was president. The social and institutional forces alluded to by Saez, however, were already moving in reverse. This might explain why inequality grew in the United States but not in Europe. In the United States, the marginal tax rate was sharply reduced (during the Reagan years, from 70 percent to 28 percent) and unions gradually lost their clout. Also, beginning in 1979, the minimum wage (in real terms) began to decline.
 Before you get too misty-eyed over the '70s, remember that while the decade may have been a high-water mark for American egalitarianism, the country was also in its worst economic funk since the Great Depression. Unemployment and inflation were raging, growth was tepid and the stock market was depressed. An economist named Alan Greenspan termed it ''the Great Malaise.''
 You can think of most of what has contributed to rising inequality since then as a reaction against the '70s. A number of industries -- banking, trucking, airlines, energy, telecommunications -- were deregulated. Trade barriers were loosened, which had a similar effect on other once-protected industries like autos and steel. Antitrust regulation diminished, permitting more big-time mergers. The elimination of controls and the creation of new financial instruments let risk-takers make bets on everything from interest rates to foreign currencies. The purpose was to unshackle the economy, but it also created a society of multimillionaires.
 In one specific case, the link was quite explicit. After the weak stock market of the '70s, academics like Michael Jensen of Harvard began to promote stock options and other incentives as a means of motivating corporate executives. Boardroom notions of propriety underwent a sea change. Lee Iacocca once told Larry King that no executive was worth $1 million. That wouldn't cover fringe benefits for C.E.O.'s nowadays.
 Indeed, executive pay is probably a glaring example of an overreaction to the '70s. Executive compensation isn't set in a pure market; it is administered by (often-friendly) directors. That C.E.O.'s have been very handsomely rewarded for failure, while many more have become exceedingly rich almost irrespective of their performance, violates every conservative piety about designing the right incentives. 
 It's harder to make that case against high-income earners generally, because most are claiming market rewards. If Bono sells a lot of CDs, or if a leading cardiologist sets high rates and wealthy patients agree to pay them, it's difficult to say that they are ''wrong.'' It's simply the market. 
 And the market has helped them prosper. In 1979, the upper 1 percent of the United States collected 9 percent of total income. Now they get 16 percent. That's an enormous increase. But beneath the very top, the trend toward inequality has been less marked. For instance, those in the middle of the income spectrum used to earn 3.2 times as much as those at the bottom; that ratio has widened, but only to 3.65 times as much. The real action has occurred between folks in the top percentile -- those who, in 2004, earned an average of $1.3 million -- and everyone else. (A little thought exercise: if the very upper crust were banished to a Caribbean island, the America that remained would be a lot more egalitarian.)
 But whether Roger Clemens, who will get something like $10,000 for every pitch that he throws, earns 100 times or 200 times what I earn is kind of irrelevant. My kids still have health care, and they go to decent schools. It's not the rich people pulling away at the top who are the problem; it's that so many have been stuck for so long at the bottom and in the middle. This is why one of the really good books on the subject, ''Inequality in America,'' by the economists James Heckman and Alan Krueger, is all about raising the incomes of people at the bottom. Punishing those at the top doesn't help.
 When it comes to raising the bottom in the short term, Washington basically has two choices: it can try to change market outcomes or it can redistribute after the market results are in. The first method is more intrusive. It includes limiting trade, regulating the workweek or restricting access to certain jobs, through mechanisms like licensing. Since the '70s, the United States has moved away from such market interventions, but Congress seems to be acting on two of them. It just voted to raise the minimum wage, for the first time in 10 years, and it is seeking a compromise to revise the immigration laws. 
 And what about redistribution after the fact? The United States does less of it than Europe, and less of it than we used to. Even though the United States is richer than Belgium, a poor person in Belgium is better off than one here. On the other hand, the price for being Belgian is steep: Belgium's median disposable income -- what people have left to spend after they pay taxes and collect welfare-type payments -- is only 72 percent as high as ours.
 Even in the United States, the rich pay a disproportionate share of the federal income tax, which mildly reduces inequality. Other taxes, however, like Social Security, are regressive: the rich pay a lesser share. Thus, the upper tenth of households pay 70 percent of the income tax, but only 52 percent of all federal taxes. State sales taxes make the system even more regressive, because poorer people spend a higher share of their total income on them. Kevin Hassett, of the American Enterprise Institute, estimates that a family of four earning $50,000 pays exactly the same share of its income (30 percent) on taxes as one earning $150,000.
 There is little agreement on how much redistribution is too much. But common sense tells you that a small increase in taxes when rates are relatively low, as they are now, isn't going to curb people's animal spirits. Higher taxes in and of themselves, however, won't cure inequality. The point of taxing, as Becker is quick to point out, isn't to confiscate: it's to raise revenue for things that will benefit society, in this case helping those at the bottom. Though such thinking is a good argument for further expanding the E.I.T.C., which rewards people for working, in the long run you want to get folks moving up the skills ladder, so fewer people are in need of wealth redistribution. That this hasn't happened is rather a conundrum. The incentives are certainly there. College grads make more than 40 percent more than high-school grads. Those with postgraduate degrees earn twice as much.
 To Becker, this is a good thing; it offers an incentive for people to pursue education. The trouble is, it hasn't worked. The Americans that Freeman once called overeducated are plainly undereducated today. Only about a third of the population graduates from college. Among the poor, there has been only a very slight increase in college-graduation rates. 
 To get more Americans to enroll in and complete college, the theory goes, you can either fix the schools (more teachers, longer school years, more student loans) or fix the students (more nurturing of kids from disadvantaged homes). Both approaches would cost a lot. But if you're worried about inequality, it's hard to see any alternative. Hamburger flippers simply don't command a high wage. We can pass laws to change that -- a minimum price for cheeseburgers, maybe -- or we can, finally, invest in teaching the flippers to do something else. 
 Since 1979, the poor -- the bottom fifth of the population by income -- have had remarkably stagnant earnings (adjusted for inflation). Meanwhile, income for the top 1 percent of earners has soared. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (Chart by MGMT. Design) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''THE RICH GET RICHER''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FAMILY (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAX INCREASES (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (50%); HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



191 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Russian Airline to Buy 22 Planes From Boeing

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, June 9 

 BODY:
The Boeing Company announced on Saturday a $3.5 billion sale of airplanes to Aeroflot, the Russian national airline, in a deal that defied the souring political relations between the United States and Russia. 
 Boeing characterized the deal, which ended a high-stakes battle with its European rival, Airbus, as a vote of confidence in the quality of its new 787 Dreamliner airplane. The model is selling well even in countries otherwise loath to patronize American businesses.
Boeing announced the sale at an economic forum that Russian officials said would show that their country remains open for business. 
 Aeroflot is buying 22 of the airplanes, to be assembled in Everett, Wash., to renew its fleet of Boeing and Airbus planes built during the Soviet era. 
 The sale was a victory for Boeing, based in Chicago, in one of its more politically fraught markets. Aeroflot said it would leave in place plans to also buy Airbus planes for a later delivery date. 
 Scott E. Carson, the executive vice president of Boeing, also agreed to assist a Russian aerospace company, Sukhoi, with global marketing and after-sales support for the company's Russian-made regional aircraft, the Superjet. 
 Boeing also signed a broad cooperation agreement with the Unified Aircraft Corporation, a state-owned holding company being formed by the Kremlin to resuscitate the domestic aircraft industry. 
 ''This underscores our long-term commitment to cooperation with Russian industry,'' Mr. Carson said in a statement. 
 For Boeing, the offer of technical cooperation apparently revived the 787 deal with Aeroflot, which had appeared dead last year as relations between Russia and the United States soured. 
 Talks between Aeroflot and Boeing stalled last fall after the State Department imposed sanctions on Sukhoi -- a Boeing partner even at the time, though a company better known as a maker of fighter jets -- for doing business in Iran. Sukhoi was one of seven companies in Russia, Cuba, North Korea and India sanctioned under the 2000 Iran Nonproliferation Act. 
 Still, Mr. Carson played down the political crosscurrents in the deal.
 ''It represents a business relationship between our company and Aeroflot, and I'm really proud of it,'' he said in response to a question of whether the deal should be seen as a step toward a resolution of the rift between the United States and Russia. 
 Aeroflot also apparently suffered after the talks stalled by allowing a delivery agreement for 2010 to expire; now, the first Boeing planes will be delivered in 2014.
 Boeing said the catalog price, or typical sale price not reflecting modifications or delivery dates, for the 22 planes was about $3.5 billion. Neither company revealed the actual terms. 
 The deals agreed to on Saturday continue a Boeing policy of heavy involvement in Russia that began in the early 1990s. 
 A Boeing design center in Moscow employs about 1,400 Russian engineers who work in shifts that correspond with the downtime of Boeing engineers in Seattle, allowing the company to design planes almost around the clock. 
 Boeing also buys parts in Russia. A onetime secret Russian military factory in the northern Ural Mountains, VSMPO-Avisma, provides Boeing with cast titanium parts under a joint venture that Boeing predicts will sell $18 billion worth of airplane parts over 30 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); AFLT (RTS) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: SCOTT E CARSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



192 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; POLITICS/POLICY; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 7865 words

HEADLINE: The Poverty Platform

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer, covers national politics for the magazine. His book, ''The Argument: Billionaires, Bloggers and the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics,'' will be published in August.

 BODY:
In April 1964, when Lyndon Johnson sought to rally public support for his new War on Poverty, he did it while sitting on a pile of two-by-fours on a front porch in Inez, Ky. -- an appearance that helped establish the Appalachian South as a national symbol of economic deprivation. And so it was fitting that John Edwards, announcing his candidacy for president at the end of last year, chose as his setting not his hometown, Robbins, N.C., where he unveiled his first presidential campaign four years earlier, but the front yard of a mangled brick house in New Orleans's Upper Ninth Ward. New Orleans is the new national shorthand for neglect, and it is, not coincidentally, the spiritual center of Edwards's campaign. After Hurricane Katrina washed away, with brutal efficiency, some of America's most impoverished neighborhoods, Edwards took more than 700 students to the submerged city to help rebuild homes and schools, and in the months since then, he has never stayed away for long. ''I can always tell when he's been to New Orleans,'' says Bruce Raynor, a co-president of the hotel and garment workers' union, who is close to the former senator. ''His passions are stirred. It angers him.'' 
On his most recent trip to New Orleans, on a Friday early last month, Edwards returned to the Upper Ninth Ward. Riding over in a van with Edwards and the actor Danny Glover, whom Edwards got to know when they toured the country together to help organize hotel workers last year, I remarked that until now I'd seen the hurricane's damage only through the lens of a television camera. ''It hasn't changed,'' Edwards said gloomily, gazing out the window. Rain clouds were gathering. ''The Ninth Ward is exactly the same as it was.''
 I asked him why.
 ''That's a really good question,'' he said with a sigh. ''I wish I had an answer.''
 Our first stop was a Habitat for Humanity rebuilding project. We parked on a block of boarded-up houses, and Edwards, wearing a navy blue work shirt, faded jeans and a tool belt, alighted from the van and walked to the work site, which was instantly surrounded by a swarm of photographers. He shook some hands and smiled, but it was clearly a forced smile, not that Edwards smile that looks as if someone just plugged him into a wall outlet. He waved his hammer around and pounded a nail or two, looking vaguely uncomfortable. Then he answered a round of questions at a microphone stand that had somehow appeared in the street.
 Next we piled back into the van and headed over to Orelia Tyler's little brick house, the one where Edwards first announced his campaign just after Christmas. This was to be a reunion of sorts. ''Oh, yeah, I remember this place,'' Edwards said as we turned onto Tyler's street.
 Tyler's house smelled of the chocolate cake she had baked for the occasion. Edwards sat down on the couch in the freshly rebuilt living room -- stucco walls, hardwood floors, lamps with the plastic still on their shades -- next to Tyler's sister, who was staying at Tyler's because her own home remained uninhabitable. She was weeping. A fraudulent contractor had taken $20,000 from her and disappeared, she said, without so much as touching her decimated house. It had happened to a lot of families. She said the Bush administration's Road Home assistance program had offered her a little more than $10,000 for rebuilding her house.
 ''Ten thousand?'' Edwards asked, incredulous.
 ''Yes.''
 ''And how much would you need to rebuild it?''
 ''Sixty-eight thousand.''
 ''Terrible,'' Edwards said, shaking his head slowly.
 ''I'm hurting,'' Tyler's sister said. ''I just would like to get home.''
 I had the distinct sense that Edwards, who had been flying from one fund-raiser to another all week, might be thinking the same thing. He rubbed his eyes. After a few minutes of awkward conversation, he rose to leave. ''Nice to seeyoo, darlin','' he drawled, patting Tyler's knee. We all climbed back into the van, Glover carrying the warm chocolate cake that Tyler never got the chance to serve. Edwards took a slice. He arrived in New Orleans in the middle of the night, he said, and hadn't been able to sleep. He had stayed up for hours. 
 I asked him why.
 ''I don't know,'' Edwards answered, sounding resigned.
 It makes sense that John Edwards would be emotionally drained from traveling around the country while his wife, Elizabeth, is back in North Carolina, undergoing treatment for cancer. He has always been a more enthusiastic campaigner when Elizabeth, the more gregarious personality and more skillful political thinker of the pair, is at his side. Now he talks to her and his two youngest children several times a day from a cellphone, stealing a few minutes in a van or backstage before delivering a speech. 
 And yet, even taking that personal ordeal into account, there is something surprisingly arduous, even joyless at times, about Edwards's second bid for the White House. Modern presidential campaigns tend to be aggressively upbeat and personality-driven; sure, every candidate has his favorite issues, but those issues generally exist mostly to color the candidate's driving ambition with some shade of higher purpose. Edwards's campaign feels oddly inverted. There's no doubt he wants very badly to win, and yet there are times when the entire campaign seems little more than an excuse for him to talk about the issue with which he is now most closely identified: the case for the 37 million Americans living in poverty. The centerpiece of his campaign is a sprawling plan to eradicate poverty altogether by 2036. Echoing Robert Kennedy's final campaign 40 years ago, Edwards, who has apologized for his Senate vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq, argues that Americans can't prevail in a civil war abroad but that we can -- and should -- wage another war on poverty at home. Everything else in the campaign, Edwards seems to think, all these carefully orchestrated photo ops and drop-bys and van rides with the media, is the kind of empty political theater from which he declared himself liberated after his last presidential run. He gives the impression that he simply endures it. 
 In that last campaign, in 2004, Edwards, running as the unflappable optimist in the Democratic primaries, wrote an inspiring book about his days as a plaintiff's lawyer; this time, his unusual entry into the now-standard field of campaign books is called ''Ending Poverty in America: How to Restore the American Dream,'' a collection of bleak and technical essays by leading liberal academics. In 2004, when Edwards repeated endlessly that he was the son of a millworker, he sounded proud and hopeful; now, when he brings up his humble beginnings, it's mainly to suggest that he knows what it's like to be one layoff or one X-ray away from destitution. This kind of grim ''twilight in America'' approach hasn't been very successful for Democrats in recent decades. And yet Edwards could be poised to profit from the current moment in Democratic politics. Over the last few years, the party's labor leaders and its left-leaning intelligentsia -- Ivy League academics, columnists, economists -- have become increasingly agitated about the ever-widening disparity between a tiny slice of wealthy Americans and the growing ranks of the working poor. These progressives see in Edwards's campaign a test case for what they hope will be a more anticorporate, antitrade message for the Democratic Party. 
 The significance of what Edwards is saying, though, goes well beyond messaging and tactics. As the first candidate of the post-Bill Clinton, postindustrial era to lay out an ambitious antipoverty plan, he may force Democrats to contemplate difficult questions that they haven't debated in decades -- starting with what they've learned about poverty since Johnson and Kennedy's time, and what, exactly, they're willing to do about it.
 If you've recently flipped to Lou Dobbs on CNN or opened the pages of a liberal political journal like The American Prospect, you might have the impression that America in the Bush years has slipped into a kind of Dickensian darkness, a period of unbridled greed and economic deprivation on a scale not seen in this country since the Great Depression. Like so many things in politics, this has some basis in truth, but only some. To compare Bush's America with Herbert Hoover's -- or Lyndon Johnson's, for that matter -- is to engage in not very helpful hyperbole. According to the economists Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, the average income of an American taxpayer in 1929, using today's dollars, was about $16,000 a year; the entire middle class, in other words, was poor by modern standards. It's true that the official poverty rate, while fluctuating quite a bit, is pretty much unchanged from where it was 40 years ago (it was 14.2 percent in 1967, compared with just under 13 percent at last count), but it's also true that what we call poverty has changed strikingly. When Johnson stepped onto that front porch in Inez, there were still rural poor who had no electricity, no running water, no primary-school education. Now most rural towns have access to satellite TV, and even the worst of the housing projects built in the 1960s -- though thoroughly horrid places to live -- come with solid roofs and indoor plumbing.
 While poverty itself may little resemble what it was in 1929 or even in 1964, however, the distance between what poor and wealthy Americans earn has widened considerably in recent decades. Since the 1970s, the portion of national income attributed to the superrich -- that is, the top one-tenth of 1 percent of earners -- has essentially tripled. In fact, in recent years, the richest 1 percent of Americans have controlled the largest share of national income -- currently 19 percent -- since Franklin Roosevelt took the oath of office. If you're in high demand as, say, a cosmetics C.E.O. or a basketball player, you're making exponentially more than you would have made 30 years ago, while the lowest-earning Americans who buy your lipstick or watch your games on TV have barely seen their wages budge. It's not that the poor are getting poorer, or that more Americans are falling below the poverty line, so much as it is that poor Americans are falling further and further behind those who succeed. 
 Economists have a lot of ideas about what factors are contributing to this worsening inequality, from Bush's tax cuts to the ballooning pay packages of corporate executives, but the general consensus seems to blame a combination of technological advances and globalization. Automation means that companies can make the same products with fewer workers, and the emergence of a global work force means that they don't have to make those products here anymore. As a result, wages for high-school graduates, who used to be able to get factory jobs, have stagnated, while highly educated workers have become increasingly valuable to companies seeking any intellectual advantage in an increasingly competitive world. Though inequality runs counter to what we think of as American values, there's no consensus that it actually reduces growth -- in fact, there are those who argue that inequality is a natural byproduct of growth. And yet, most social scientists seem to agree that, sooner or later, income inequality will exact a steep social cost, if not an economic one. 
 During the 1990s, Paul Romer, a Stanford economist, emerged as one of the world's leading theorists on economic growth. Recently, though, Romer has changed his focus, and he told me that the country, too, is entering a new phase. For most of the 20th century, he explained, economists focused on stability -- that is, understanding and controlling inflation and depressions. Then, toward the end of the century, growth became the central obsession. Now, Romer said, we are embarking on the next great challenge in American economics: mitigating inequality. 
 The main economic debate in Democratic Washington revolves around how to do this. It is a debate over the tools of economic policy -- taxes, trade, welfare -- and how to use them. The argument here breaks down, roughly speaking, along an ideological continuum from doctrinaire conservatives on the right all the way to reborn populists on the left. And the challenge for John Edwards, if he really wants to reset the national agenda on poverty and inequality, is to figure out where on this continuum he's going to live.
 On the far right of the spectrum are those who don't see inequality as much of a problem at all: the trickle-down conservatives, so named for the theory popularized by Ronald Reagan and then by George W. Bush. This theory holds that markets work at maximum efficiency when left to their own devices, enabling some of the money flowing into Wall Street and corporate boardrooms to ''trickle down'' to the middle class and the poor through spending and investment.
 In the center would be those Democrats -- and maybe a few Republicans -- who make up what could be called the redistribution camp. This group, personified by Gene Sperling, Bill Clinton's former economic adviser, and Robert Rubin, his onetime Treasury secretary, subscribe to John Kennedy's dictum that ''the rising tide lifts all boats.'' They share the conservative philosophy that growth at the upper echelons of society is good for everyone, but with a significant difference: government has to redistribute some of that wealth by progressively taxing the affluent and giving that money back to the poor through carefully incentivized social programs and tax breaks.
 The redistribution folks think of globalization as inevitable, a transformation as unstoppable as industrialization was at the turn of the last century. That's why they generally embrace free trade, and it's also why they believe that more workers will have to go to college in order to compete for high-paying jobs. Larry Katz, a Harvard economist, points out that the United States faced a similar dilemma at the end of the agrarian age, when kids growing up on farms routinely dropped out of school before getting the high-school degree they needed in the automated world. The country, led by rural states, committed itself to universal high-school education -- an accomplishment that played no small role in expanding the middle class. Now, as we transition out of the industrial era, Katz says, universal access to college may be the only way to keep American workers competitive.
 On the left end of the continuum are the populist Democrats who tend to gravitate, at least at this early stage of the campaign, toward Edwards's candidacy and who espouse a philosophy you might call ''predistribution'' -- using the tools of government to divert money from the wealthiest Americans before they earn it. According to these Democrats, the rising tide stopped lifting all boats sometime in the 1970s, when manufacturers, challenged by foreign competitors, began to seek out cheaper labor overseas. That's when the fortunes of American employers and their workers, so closely aligned throughout much of the 20th century, began to diverge. ''The rising tide is lifting all yachts,'' quips Robert Reich, the former labor secretary, ''but rowboats and dinghies have had a harder time.'' The populists are furious at the Clinton crowd, who they believe took the party in the wrong direction during the 1990s, chasing Wall Street money, signing harmful trade deals and reforming welfare when they should have been standing up for all the poor people and union members who weren't sharing in the prosperity.
 Predistribution Democrats dispute the notion that the effects of globalization are inevitable; to them, the decline in American industry was inflicted on the country through policies that favored business at the expense of wage earners. And they think it's still possible, by reversing those policies, to live in a country where a guy with a high-school degree can have a rosy economic future. They would redistribute more income (they often point out that the marginal income tax rates on the highest earners once exceeded 90 percent), but they also favor pulling a series of economic levers that would favor wage earners over corporations. For instance, predistributionists favor keeping interest rates lower, even if it risks the inflation that businesses and consumers deplore, because lower rates lead to tighter labor markets, lower unemployment and higher wages. They're against future trade deals that might benefit businesses but displace workers. And whereas the redistribution Democrats generally prefer a balanced budget, the predistributionists consider budget deficits necessary in order to make large-scale social investments in health care and job retraining.
 A few years ago, the Democrats on the far end of this spectrum were in the minority in the party. Most Democrats at that time, including John Edwards, openly identified with Rubinesque redistribution, preaching the virtues of rapid growth and fiscal discipline. (Although it's hard to recall this now, no less a liberal hero than Howard Dean, when he set out to run for president in 2003, made a balanced budget one of the central planks of his campaign.) But all that seems to be changing. The corporate excesses of the Bush years and the continued decline of American manufacturing, along with the effect of Bush's tax cuts on the wealthy, have both angered and emboldened establishment Democrats, who now sound increasingly alarmed by the yawning divide between rich and poor. Even some staunch supporters of free trade -- the Princeton economist Alan Blinder, for one -- have publicly voiced their concerns about the uncontrolled effects of globalization on workers. As Will Marshall, president of the centrist Progressive Policy Institute, says, only partly in jest, ''Bush has made populists of us all.'' 
 This word -- ''populist'' -- is thrown around a lot in connection with John Edwards and his presidential campaign. The New Republic titled its Edwards profile ''The Accidental Populist,'' and the word has been used to describe him, at one point or another, in virtually every major newspaper in the past several months. It is a word with a specific meaning to the historians who study political campaigns: it describes someone who appeals to deep-seated resentments against corporate interests and the wealthy. Attaching the populist label to Edwards implies that he has planted himself on the far left of the inequality continuum, alongside the antitrade, anticorporate, predistribution Democrats.
 This certainly wasn't the John Edwards who embarked on his first presidential campaign in 2003, a smooth and centrist Southerner whom party insiders had anointed the next Bill Clinton. Back then, Edwards didn't really know much about politics or policy. He had run only one campaign -- his successful bid for a Senate seat from North Carolina in 1998 -- and had spent his entire career before that as a plaintiff's lawyer. By Edwards's own admission, when his phalanx of presidential advisers sat down back then to discuss strategy or policy questions, Edwards was always the guy in the room who knew the least. It wasn't until the later stages of the primaries, after he honed his theme of the ''two Americas,'' that Edwards found a voice of his own and was swept to the second spot on the Democratic ticket.
 About a month after the 2004 election, Edwards met with his most loyal advisers at his cluttered home on P Street in Georgetown. It was assumed he might run again, and the question facing Edwards was how best to spend his time, intellectually and politically. There was talk of a foreign-policy study group, or maybe something to do with education, another huge issue for Democrats. It was Elizabeth, hearing Edwards expound yet again on poverty, who finally pushed these other suggestions aside. What Edwards clearly cared about most, she said, was poverty. She knew her husband better than anyone, and she knew that poverty was the issue that really lighted him up during the campaign, the one he had brought home with him and railed about in the privacy of their kitchen. Maybe it wasn't the most exploitable issue in Democratic politics, but if that's what animated Edwards, why shouldn't he just go out and do something about it?
 Edwards set up a center to study poverty at the University of North Carolina, which he visited about once a week. He traveled the country and the world -- India, the Middle East, Uganda -- and convened conferences of all the brightest antipoverty experts on the left. At the same time, he took on an assignment to lead, along with the former Republican housing secretary Jack Kemp, a commission on Russia policy for the Council on Foreign Relations, and he took a well-paying job at a hedge fund in New York. As he grew more comfortable in his new roles, Edwards stopped returning the calls of all the campaign consultants who once ruled his routines and his rhetoric. When I saw him for the first time since his 2004 presidential campaign, at a Chapel Hill cafe in January 2006, he seemed to me a changed man -- liberated, self-assured, a little defiant. 
 ''I saw the difference in the way people responded to me when I was talking from here,'' he told me that day, patting his heart, ''and not from here.'' He raised a finger to his head. ''Just being myself and standing up for what I believe, and not being coached and not being consulted, is what it's all about.'' He derided all the ''phoniness'' in Washington and talked about the scores of poor neighborhoods he had been visiting on his own. ''With just a few breaks the other way, I would be sitting where these people are right now,'' he told me. ''I know it sounds corny, but when I can't sleep at night, I get these pictures in my head of all the people I've met. I wonder what more I should be doing.''
 Exiling oneself from Washington and being subsequently reborn as a more candid and compassionate politician is an old and popular plotline in Democratic politics. Robert Kennedy built his legend on the same idea in the mid-1960s; more recently, Bill Bradley and Al Gore have adopted similar themes. Edwards clearly sees himself in this vein, and his conversion appears to have been sincere, if not entirely original. His campaign this time reflects a pronounced aversion to being stage-managed. Some of his loyalists from 2004 remain, mostly in informal advisory roles, but there is no single A1/4ber-strategist like Bob Shrum, who plotted Edwards's strategy in his Senate campaign, or David Axelrod, who advised him during his last presidential race and is now steering Barack Obama's campaign. The operation itself feels chaotic and decentralized, with John and Elizabeth Edwards making an unusual number of mundane decisions themselves. Edwards seems to have determined that, this time, he and Elizabeth will do the scripting.
 When it comes to the issues, Edwards hasn't radically changed any of his positions from his last campaign (with the notable exception of having renounced his vote on Iraq). But he seems to be saying more of what he really meant back then, when advisers prevailed on him to navigate more cautiously. For instance, in 2004 Edwards had a plan to offer health care to all of the nation's uninsured children, but he stopped short of offering a more expansive plan for everyone, because conventional wisdom held that such an idea was too expensive and too liberal. Now the cornerstone of Edwards's platform is his plan for universal health care. Based on programs in Massachusetts and California, Edwards's proposal would compel uninsured Americans to buy health insurance from a pool of private plans, although there would also be the option of buying into a government program modeled on Medicare. (This last bit is significant to liberal policy analysts, since they see it as a potential gateway to single-payer health care at some point in the future.) Employers would either have to offer health care packages to their workers or pay into a national fund for the uninsured.
 Edwards would also triple the earned-income tax credit, expanding it from a program aimed at low-income workers with children to one that covers childless workers as well. To promote savings among the poor, he would create ''work bonds'' -- special savings accounts in which the government would match the first $500 in saved wages each year. He says he would create a million ''steppingstone jobs'' to draw more poor adults into the work force; the specifics of this idea are vague, but presumably the government would create a New Deal-style jobs program, putting Americans to work in parks and on road projects. Building on a pilot project he has already started in North Carolina, Edwards proposes making the first year of public college free to students below a certain level of income who agree to work 10 hours a week, as he did. (Students at private colleges who took part would get the equivalent amount in tuition support.) In what is perhaps his most counterintuitive reform, Edwards calls for getting the federal government out of the business of maintaining housing projects. He would vastly expand a Clinton-era policy that gives vouchers to families who currently live in public housing, which they can use to rent affordable apartments in other neighborhoods. 
 Edwards estimates that the health care plan alone would cost as much as $120 billion annually and that the rest of his antipoverty proposals might tack on, if enacted, as much as $20 billion. As to how to pay for all this, he says he would start by repealing Bush's tax cut on families making more than $200,000, which Edwards's staff estimates could net $90 billion a year or so. The rest, he posits, might come from additional taxes on the wealthy or corporations; a push to collect more than $50 billion in unpaid taxes; and cuts in what Edwards identifies as wasteful spending. These last two ideas, of course, are perennial campaign lines whenever the subject of how to pay for things arises. What distinguishes Edwards from his rivals is his admitted willingness to run a budget deficit of up to about 2 percent of the federal budget (or roughly where it is now). Edwards argues that America's structural inequality demands some investment up front if the economy is to continue growing later -- a more honest position, whether one agrees with it or not, than the one more commonly offered by Houdini-like politicians who claim they can somehow provide health care, hold the line on taxes and balance the budget at the same time. 
 Aside from the price tag, however, what stands out the most about Edwards's antipoverty ideas is their familiarity. It's as if he has taken most of the proposals that have been talked about in policy groups and at university forums since the 1990s and thrown them all together into one comprehensive and expensive package. The individual proposals themselves, far from being radical or populist, basically sound -- there's no other way to put it -- Clintonian.
 Edwards would do a few of the things that the predistribution crowd likes. He would raise the minimum wage further than Congress just did, to $7.50, and loosen the restrictions on organizing workers -- proposals that most Democrats have long favored and that would very likely, in the big picture, have only a modest effect on structural poverty. When I asked him about some of the issues that are more divisive for Democrats, though, Edwards was mostly noncommittal, trying to place himself somewhere between the Rubinite center and the populist left. On trade, Edwards said he'd like to include more protections for workers in any new pacts (a popular formulation that sounds better in theory than it is likely to work in reality), but he won't support the pause on new free-trade deals that some liberals want. The reason: Edwards is adamant that his antipoverty crusade extend to other countries as well, where most workers benefit from trade with the United States.
 As we sat in a hotel hospitality suite in New Hampshire's north country last month, accompanied by a Muzak version of Chicago's ''If You Leave Me Now,'' Edwards said he might consider pressuring the Fed to lower interest rates in order to tighten labor markets, but he wasn't sure. Similarly, he said he was wary of raising the tax rate on capital gains too high, fearing that it would cause capital to flee the country. He sounded equally unenthused about returning to the days of steeper levies on the superrich (beyond the tax-cut rollback he has proposed on those making more than $200,000), even though his official position is that he would consider them. ''Would I be willing to consider higher rates on the highest-earning Americans -- you know, people who make millions of dollars?'' he asked. ''It's something I'd be open to. It's not something I'd propose.''
 In fact, the more you talk to Edwards, the more apparent it is that the populist label doesn't quite fit. While he talks incessantly about economic injustice, Edwards isn't proposing anything -- beyond an oil-company windfall tax, which Hillary Clinton has also embraced -- that would strike a serious blow against multinational corporations or the top tier of American earners. Even in his rhetoric, Edwards seems to deliberately avoid stoking resentments or pitting one class against another the way a true populist would, unless you count taking a few easy shots at Wal-Mart.
 ''Rhetorically, if you're calling Edwards an economic populist, it's true he cares a lot about the poor,'' says Robert Reich, who isn't yet supporting a candidate. ''He evinces a lot of concern for the middle class and middle-class anxieties. But he's not in any way attacking the rich or corporations.'' Reich says this with a note of disappointment. ''He's not explaining one fundamental fact of modern economic life, which is that the very rich have all the money.''
 When I asked Edwards if he blamed large corporations or the wealthiest Americans for inequality, he appeared briefly confused by the question. ''No -- no,'' Edwards repeated, shaking his head. ''I just don't think blaming helps, to be honest with you. What's the point?''
 Even Democrats who support other candidates admit, grudgingly, that Edwards's proposals would very likely have some measurable impact on American poverty. The expansion of the earned-income tax credit alone, Democratic analysts say, would translate into a $750 annual windfall, on average, for about four million poor Americans. Social scientists say pilot projects along the lines of Edwards's work bonds have lent credence to the idea that the working poor can successfully be encouraged to save some of their wages, as long as the process of setting up the account isn't onerous. The public-housing vouchers Edwards talks about have been the subject of some controversy, and opponents cite mixed results, but most experts -- not to mention anybody who has ever spent time in the projects of the Bronx or Boston -- believe that finally dismantling the 1960s experiment in warehousing the poor can only be a good thing for the people who live there.
 The question isn't whether these policies will make a difference, but whether they will make all the difference -- that is, whether Edwards's plan would really eradicate poverty in America, or at least significantly diminish it. Most leading economists in the antipoverty field, particularly those who aren't partisans in the old and stultified political debate between Great Society liberals and Reagan-era conservatives, now talk about poverty solutions as having two components. The first and most obvious is economic. Being poor means, quite literally, that you don't have money; it stands to reason, then, that offering jobs and tax credits that encourage people to work will, on some level, alleviate poverty. The second component, however, has to do with what a lot of academics now refer to as ''human capital.'' This comprises the other, less visible resources, aside from money, that many poor people lack: education, marketable skills, contacts, self-discipline. The kinds of advantages that middle-class families take for granted -- knowing, say, how to ace a job interview or how to prepare your children for success in school -- often elude those who have grown up in poverty, thus perpetuating a cycle of economic failure.
 Social scientists have been thinking hard about how to create policies that address this less quantifiable aspect of poverty. In New York City, acting on the work of his special commission on poverty, Mayor Michael Bloomberg is raising money (an undisclosed amount of which is his own) for an innovative pilot project, inspired by similar programs in countries like Mexico and South Africa, that will award cash payments to parents who participate in their child's health care and schooling. Some experts, meanwhile, argue the best (and maybe the only) way to bridge the divide in human capital is to expand and improve early-childhood educational programs. One leading voice in this camp is the University of Chicago's James Heckman, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, who contends, after years of studying the subject, that all the low-wage jobs and adult training programs on the planet won't succeed in eliminating poverty unless government intervenes in the earliest stages of childhood, when tax dollars have been shown to yield the most return. ''If people have limited options, low skills and an inability to function in the larger economy,'' Heckman told me, ''you can give them money, but if you don't give them the skills, if you don't somehow improve their access to those institutions that make a society productive, then all you're going to do is more of what we did in the 1960s with the War on Poverty -- namely, it will eradicate poverty in the sense that it will give people money, but it won't lead to sustained growth of income, and the kids of these people will probably also enter poverty.''
 To liberals, historically, taking on things like parenting skills and self-discipline veers dangerously close to blaming people for their own poverty -- which is what they charge conservatives with doing. Instead, Democrats in the era since Bill Clinton have settled on a delicate formula for talking about poverty: they make concrete proposals in the economic realm (job training, tax credits, a higher minimum wage) while sternly deploying code phrases (''personal responsibility,'' ''playing by the rules'') that suggest that those in need also have to make better choices for themselves and their children. Not surprisingly, perhaps, Edwards follows this same basic regimen. While he talks about making people ''take responsibility'' and emphasizes the value of work, his antipoverty agenda contains little that is new or innovative to encourage better parenting or to impart more useful life skills. When I asked him about this, Edwards assured me that he understands the scope of the issue. He told me that he had visited more than 100 antipoverty and neighborhood centers around the country since the last election and that what he saw in some of those places stunned him. ''When you're sitting with a woman who's working two or three jobs and having a terrible time making ends meet, and she tells you that her 14-year-old girl is having her third child, it makes you weep inside,'' he said, with obvious emotion. ''I mean, where's the hope? They are absolutely doomed to poverty.''
 Still, Edwards rejects the idea that government can get involved in the way people live their lives and raise their children. ''The government has nothing to do with this,'' he said. ''And I'm not sure the government should have anything to do with this.'' Instead, he told me, part of a president's job is to encourage the community-based groups that deal with issues like teenage pregnancy and absentee fathers. I asked him how, exactly, he would do that. ''By meeting with these people,'' he said. ''Lifting them up.''
 From a political standpoint, the specific policy details of Edwards's antipoverty agenda matter less than the fact that he's standing up for something he believes in -- or at least that's how Edwards sees it. After watching Bush and the Republicans turn John Kerry into the caricature of a vacillating politician, Edwards came away from the 2004 campaign with a critical insight: campaigns are about who you are, not what policies you propose. 
 ''Presidential elections are not just about issues -- they're about character and integrity and values,'' Edwards told me when we met for coffee in Chapel Hill last year. ''I didn't realize when I went into it that what you stand for is more important than all the rest of it put together. I believe that very strongly now.'' In other words, whatever one might say about the details of Edwards's proposals, he is betting that voters will see two things: first, that he is a serious thinker who has offered detailed plans for the country (something they did not necessarily see in him in 2004), and second, that he is a man of such character and resolve that he is willing to talk about poverty in rooms full of wealthy lawyers and Iowa farmers, whether or not they share his passion for the poor.
 There is a kind of meta-politics at work here, as there so often is in the modern campaign, where candidates feel compelled to telegraph their authenticity to cynical voters. Several times while we were together, Edwards pointed out to me, as he often does in interviews, that no one in politics thinks poverty is a winning campaign issue, and thus, the fact that he harps on it can't possibly be helpful to him. He says this to underscore the fact that he is not the kind of candidate who exists to give the people what they want. But of course, as Edwards surely knows, the mere act of taking a stand on an issue that is considered a political loser makes him, in the eyes of many liberals, a candidate of uncommon courage, even though he isn't saying anything that most Democratic primary voters don't already agree with. So, in an odd way, building a campaign around poverty -- while at the same time calling for an immediate troop withdrawal from Iraq, which thrills liberal partisans -- turns out to be a very shrewd primary strategy, after all. It's not that Edwards doesn't believe in what he's saying; it's just that he surely knows, at the end of the day, that it isn't really a liability, either. 
 Edwards has assiduously courted the party's powerful service unions, whose members often work low-paying jobs with little security or benefits. He seems to have determined early on in the race, from the time the contours of the field began to take shape soon after the 2004 election, that he alone had the star power to come at Hillary Clinton from the left, to position himself as the credible Democratic candidate who would lash out against the war and side unequivocally with the party's liberal interest groups. The unexpected entry of Barack Obama into the race certainly complicated this calculus. An exciting new face, Obama is also trying to play Robert Kennedy to Clinton's Hubert Humphrey, running hard against the war and trying to peel off labor and minority voters. Obama has, for most of this year, pushed Edwards to the periphery of news coverage and fund-raising. Still, Edwards seems to be counting on the notion that Obama, as inexperienced a candidate as Edwards was last time, will lose some of his allure along the way. Although Edwards trails his two principal rivals nationally, polls have shown him running strongly in Iowa and South Carolina, two critical early states.
 Whenever you wrap yourself in the mantle of morality and conviction, however, even the smallest hypocrisy can leave an indelible stain. Edwards is, after all, a very wealthy man, given to some of the excesses that wealth allows. While Edwards was denouncing inequality across the land, he was also building, near Chapel Hill, the largest home in the county, a 28,000-square-foot mansion with its own indoor basketball and squash courts. He also made news recently for receiving a $400 haircut in a Los Angeles hotel room. The decision that most complicates Edwards's political message, though, is his affiliation with Fortress Investments, the hedge fund where he worked in 2006. Strictly speaking, hedge funds aren't especially nefarious enterprises in American life, but as a symbolic matter, they represent exactly the kind of exclusionary wealth that has led, more than anything else, to the gross inequality that Edwards deplores. (More than symbolically, Fortress has invested in exactly the kind of subprime-mortgage dealers that Edwards has repeatedly castigated for preying on the poor.) If Edwards isn't keen on shouting about how, in Reich's words, ''the very rich have all the money,'' it may be because he's hardly the guy to be making the case.
 Edwards seems to find it hard to believe that anyone could think he's less than sincere about his commitment to the poor. He is, as he never grew tired of reminding us in 2004, the son of a millworker, a man who worked his way through college and devoted his entire legal career to righting the wrongs done to powerless people. ''I would argue that my life is a very consistent pattern,'' he told me during our conversation in New Hampshire. ''It's true -- I worked for a hedge fund. No denying that. I did. It's also true that I've made a lot of money in my lifetime. So do we want somebody as president who hasn't been successful?'' He laughed. ''And would it be better if I didn't want to help people to have a chance to be as successful as I have been? I think it's pretty clear where my heart is.''
 That may be, and yet it doesn't help when Edwards tries so hard to establish his affinity for the common man that it makes you wince. When the Fortress story first surfaced, for instance, he told Nedra Pickler of The Associated Press that he joined the hedge fund partly because he wanted to learn more about the way markets affected inequality. This is rather like saying you hired a stripper in order to better understand the exploitation of women. Another cringe-worthy example: In April, The A.P. asked the announced candidates in both parties what their dream job would be if they weren't in politics. It was meant to be an amusing exercise. Barack Obama said he'd be an architect. Bill Richardson said he'd play center field for the Yankees. Rudolph W. Giuliani said he'd be a sports announcer. What was Edwards's dream job -- the alternate life he lay awake fantasizing about, had he not become a millionaire lawyer and politician?
 ''Mill supervisor.''
 Some of these problems might have been avoided if Edwards were running the kind of conventional campaign he ran last time. Any half-witted political consultant could have told Edwards that, if he really wanted to run for president this time as the champion of the working poor, then maybe he should stay away from haircuts that cost twice what a minimum-wage worker makes in a week. In fact, some adviser with more than half a wit probably did try to tell him, but Edwards seems determined not to be ''handled'' in this way, to avoid the overcalculation that appeared to paralyze Kerry in 2004. All of which brings to mind an important question about Edwards's antipoverty agenda: should he manage to outlast Clinton, Obama and the others to win the nomination, does he have a strategy to sell his lavish plan to the American people? How exactly does he plan to pitch middle-class voters on the War on Poverty, Act II?
 Since Ronald Reagan, Democrats have largely avoided talking too much about social programs for the poor, fearing that middle-class voters would recoil at the thought of more of their hard-earned money going to welfare moms. Some progressives have tried recently to get around this problem by arguing that there really isn't much of a distinction anymore between the poor and the middle class -- that, as inequality worsens, the once-solid middle class, as the Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren has written, is ''vanishing.'' By this theory, average voters should now support antipoverty programs because those same programs will benefit the middle class. This is a tricky formulation, since it seems to rely on a narrow and convenient definition of ''middle class'' -- namely, struggling households headed by two working parents with no education beyond high school. In fact, as the Washington policy group Third Way documented in a recent report, middle-class college graduates have performed remarkably well in the new economy, and while their debts have risen, their wealth and assets have accumulated even faster. It turns out that the middle class, in the sense that most Americans think of it, isn't vanishing at all.
 Edwards seems conflicted about which argument to make. He is most compelling about poverty when he's talking about it as a national obligation -- what he calls ''the moral issue of our time.'' But he also recognizes the need to persuasively connect it to the self-interest of middle-class voters. ''For the majority of Americans, you have to convince them that it's good for America and good for them,'' he told me. ''Which means it's important to strengthening and growing the middle class. It's important to the inequality issue. It's important to America, and as a result important to them personally.'' Edwards summarized his message to voters this way: ''We're all in this together. Do you love your country? We want everyone to have a chance.'' 
 At times, he seems to fall back on the ''vanishing middle class'' idea, telling audiences that five million more Americans have already slipped into poverty during the Bush years. (Translation: You could be next.) But when we talked about it, he bluntly admitted that such a pitch probably doesn't work. ''They don't feel that way,'' he said, referring to middle-class voters. ''I think there is a discomfort, but most people don't accept the idea that they're going to go backward.''
 Given his obvious passion for a new war on poverty, it's puzzling that Edwards doesn't seem to have yet thought through how one really builds a mandate for it. In order to sell Americans on a costly new bundle of antipoverty programs, it's probably not enough to make an argument of conscience; there has to be some clear and compelling reason why ending poverty isn't just good and desirable but also critical to the nation's economic health. The stakes here are exceptionally high. If Edwards isn't successful, then Democrats will most likely conclude, once again, that poverty is a losing issue. It took 40 years after Robert Kennedy's death for another establishment Democrat to summon the courage to build a campaign around economic injustice. If Edwards should win the nomination but lose the White House, it might well be another 40 years before anyone tries again. 
 The chart shows that most of the people without health insurance in the United States make less than $50,000 a year (Chart by Linda Eckstein) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Robert Maxwell)
from left: Edwards at a town hall meeting in Des Moines
the home of a Hurricane Katrina victim in New Orleans
a conference of black mayors in Baton Rouge
and a carpenters' union picnic in Hollis, N.H.
 Candidate with a hammer Edwards working with a Habitat for Humanity team last month in New Orleans's Ninth Ward, a signal place for the poverty issue and the one Edwards chose for announcing his candidacy for president. (Photographs By Benjamin Lowy For The New York Times) Chart: ''HOLES IN THE SAFETY NET''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HURRICANES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); GARMENT WORKERS (71%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (70%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); APPAREL MFG (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); HOTEL STAFF (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



193 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Grass Roots Roared, and an Immigration Plan Fell

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Mich., June 8 

 BODY:
The undoing of the immigration bill in the Senate this week had many players, but none more effective than angry voters like Monique Thibodeaux, who joined a nationwide campaign to derail it.
 Mrs. Thibodeaux, an office manager at a towing company here in suburban Detroit, became politically active as she never had before. Guided by conservative Internet organizations, she made calls and sent e-mail messages to senators across the country and pushed her friends to do the same.
''These people came in the wrong way, so they don't belong here, period,'' Mrs. Thibodeaux, a Republican, said of some 12 million illegal immigrants who would have been granted a path to citizenship under the Senate bill.
 ''In my heart I knew it was wrong for our country,'' she said of the measure. 
 Supporters of the legislation defended it as an imperfect but pragmatic solution to the difficult problem of illegal immigration. Public opinion polls, including a New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted last month, showed broad support among Americans for the bill's major provisions.
 But the legislation sparked a furious rebellion among many Republican and even some Democratic voters, who were linked by the Internet and encouraged by radio talk show hosts. Their outrage and activism surged to full force after Senator Jon Kyl, the Arizona Republican who was an author of the bill, suggested early this week that support for the measure seemed to be growing. The assault on lawmakers in Washington was relentless. In a crucial vote Thursday night, the bill's supporters, including President Bush, fell short by 15 votes. While there is a possibility the legislation could be revived later this year, there was a glow of victory among opponents on Friday.
 ''Technologically enhanced grass-roots activism is what turned this around, people empowered by the Internet and talk radio,'' said Colin A. Hanna, president of Let Freedom Ring, a conservative group. 
 Mr. Hanna suggested the passion and commitment were on the side of the opponents.
 ''The opposition to the amnesty plan is so much more intense than the intensity of the supporters,'' said Mr. Hanna, speaking of the bill's provisions to grant legal status to qualifying illegal immigrants, which the authors of the legislation insisted was not amnesty.
 In the end, supporters conceded that they were outmaneuvered by opponents who boiled down their complaints to that single hot-button word, repeated often and viscerally on talk radio programs and blogs.
 ''It's a lot easier to yell one word, 'amnesty,' and it takes a little more to explain, 'No, it's not, and if you don't do anything you have a silent amnesty,' '' said Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat who backed the measure.
 Christopher Sabatini, senior director of policy at the Americas Society/Council of the Americas, which follows Hispanic immigration, described the bill as ''born an orphan in terms of popular support.''
 ''You got the sense of a deafening silence from the supporters, and the roar of the opposition,'' Mr. Sabatini said.
 For Mrs. Thibodeaux and others on her side, the immigration debate was a battle for the soul of the nation because it seemed to divert taxpayer-financed resources to cater to foreigners who had not come to this country by legal means.
 ''This hit home with me because I knew it was taking away from our people,'' said Mrs. Thibodeaux, 50, who works at Ruehle's Auto Transport. ''What happened to taking care of our own people first?''
 Rosemary Jenks, a policy advocate at NumbersUSA, which calls for curbing immigration, said that 7,000 new members signed up for the organization in a single day last week. Other groups reported a similar outpouring as proponents of the Senate bill claimed to be gaining momentum.
 ''We had way more response than we could handle,'' said Stephen Elliott, president of Grassfire.org, a conservative Internet group that called for volunteers for a petition drive and instructed people how to barrage lawmakers with telephone calls and e-mail.
 The group gathered more than 700,000 signatures on petitions opposing the bill, delivering them this week to senators in Washington and in their home states.
 Organizers described a new Internet-linked national constituency that emerged among Republicans, much like the one that Democrats pioneered during the presidential candidacy in 2004 of Howard Dean. But many of these Republicans are enraged at their party leaders, including Mr. Kyl and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, who supported the bill, and they feel betrayed by Mr. Bush.
 Opposition to the Senate bill brought together many Americans in states where immigration was not traditionally a fervor-inspiring issue, but where illegal immigration has become more visible in recent years.
 ''Every state is now a border state,'' said Susan Tully, the national field director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which has long supported a crackdown on illegal immigration. The bill's opponents also objected to how it was handled, with the huge measure negotiated behind closed doors between White House and Senate lawmakers, without any hearings or other public input.
 ''Ordinary people like me rose up and put a stop to it,'' said William Murphy, a retired policeman from Evansville, Wis., one of the Grassfire.org volunteers who delivered petitions to his senators. On Thursday before the vote, he said, he put in new calls to 15 senators.
 Mr. Murphy said he felt strongly about the bill because he believed it would degrade the value of American citizenship.
 ''If I come from Mexico, I can jump the fence and get all those American benefits,'' he said. ''It's outrageous when you can buy your citizenship for $5,000,'' he said, referring to the fines that illegal immigrants would pay under the bill to become legal permanent residents.
 When asked about Mr. Bush's support for the bill, Mr. Murphy, a longtime Republican, had to pause to temper his words.
 ''I was stunned, really,'' he said. Mr. Bush ''has always been a person who stood for some basic human values, and now he's going to give away the country?''
 In Virginia, Allen Price, another Grassfire.org member who was formerly a talk show host in Richmond, decried the Senate bill as an attempt by corporate business to secure cheap labor.
 ''I called up everybody I knew and told them to make calls,'' said Mr. Price, also a Republican. He delivered 15,000 petitions to the offices of his senators, John W. Warner, a Republican, and Jim Webb, a first-term Democrat, both of whom voted against closing debate on the bill on Thursday night.
 In California, a challenge was started by ''The John & Ken Show,'' a popular talk radio show critical of the bill, for 30,000 opposition calls to Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, who supported the measure. All of Ms. Feinstein's phone lines were clogged, with calls from opponents of the bill and from supporters seeking to undermine the challenge.
 Here in Michigan, speaking at her neatly maintained home under hickory trees in Washington, a town north of Detroit that has been battered by auto company layoffs, Mrs. Thibodeaux said the immigration bill worried her like no other political issue. She believed it would reward undeserving immigrants who do not speak English and would soon become a burden on public services that Americans need in a time of economic uncertainty.
 ''A lot of our American people in Detroit are hurting,'' Mrs. Thibodeaux said, noting thatshe has often done volunteer work in poor neighborhoods here. ''It's just not right.''
 Her strong feelings about the immigration issue came gradually, she said. A nephew who works as a house painter had trouble finding high-paying work because of competition from illegal immigrants. Some Mexican teenagers hassled her on the street, seeming to mock her because she walks with a cane. She spotted immigrants shopping with food stamps at the grocery store.
 Mrs. Thibodeaux said she favored orderly legal immigration, but did not think illegal immigrants should benefit from American generosity.
 ''I have a very hard time with illegal,'' she said. She proposes that all illegal immigrants be given a 90-day period to leave voluntarily. After that, immigration agents, local police and the National Guard, if necessary, should be mobilized to deport them, she said.
 Republican voters and organizers said they were ready for a long fight on the immigration issue, even if the debate is reopened in Congress.
 ''This bill represented something so big that people noticed,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group. He said the Senate debate was not ''just stirring up the hornet's nest, but is actually changing the dynamics of this issue for the future.''
 Mrs. Thibodeaux agreed. If the immigration issue comes before Congress again, she said, ''I'm going to get a microphone and start yelling.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Monique Thibodeaux made telephone calls and wrote senators to express her opposition to the immigration measure. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Representatives Steve King, left, and Ed Royce with Steven Elliott, second from left, and Ron Dejong, right, of Grassfire.org, which presented a petition signed by nearly 700,000 opponents of the immigration bill. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)
 William Murphy of Wisconsin said he thought the bill would degrade the value of American citizenship. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. 35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); AMNESTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: STEVE KING (73%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); JON KYL (58%); EDWARD R ROYCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



194 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-10-07: ENCOUNTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2860 words

HEADLINE: Larry Summers's Evolution

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt. 
David Leonhardt writes a weekly economics column for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Back in the 1980s, two young Harvard professors trying to reinvigorate the Democratic Party would meet at the Wursthaus restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., to have lunch and argue with each other. They must have made for an entertaining sight, one of them bearish and the other less than five feet tall, debating each other in a dark Harvard Square dive. The argument, in a nutshell, came to this. The smaller man -- Robert Reich, a future secretary of labor -- argued for something that he called ''industrial policy.'' Since the government couldn't avoid having a big influence on the economy, he said, it should at least do so in a way that promoted fast-growing industries and invested in worthy public projects. 
The bearish professor was Lawrence H. Summers, who was then the youngest person to have received tenure in the modern history of Harvard University. He loved to tackle big, broad questions, and, by his lights, industrial policy amounted to another version of the governmental meddling that had helped consign the Democratic Party to opposition status. How could bureaucrats know which industries and projects to support with tax credits? The better solution, Summers responded, was to get the economy growing fast enough that the problems of the middle class would begin to solve themselves. And the way to do this was to slow government spending and raise taxes on the wealthy, which would bring down the Reagan-era budget deficits and, eventually, interest rates. Once that happened, the American economy would be unleashed.
 The debate, friendly as it was when Summers and Reich were having it, would come to dominate the struggle over domestic policy within the Democratic Party for more than a decade. Bill Clinton ended up embracing the centrist, business-friendly ideas of Summers and his mentor, Robert Rubin, and the situation played out just as they had predicted: interest rates fell, and along came a boom that helped almost everyone. In the late '90s, the wages of rank-and-file workers rose faster than they had in a generation. A frustrated Reich left the Labor Department after Clinton's first term, while Summers eventually ascended to the top job at the Treasury Department.
 All of which makes it rather fascinating to listen to Summers talk these days. Having left the presidency of Harvard after a rocky five-year tenure, he has turned his attention back to economics. But he doesn't sound like a triumphant Clinton alumnus who simply wants the country to return to the policies of the 1990s. He sounds, strangely enough, a little like Bob Reich.
 On Oct. 30 of last year, Summers made his debut as a monthly columnist for The Financial Times. The column was titled ''The Global Middle Cries Out for Reassurance.'' He began by noting that the world's economy had grown faster over the previous five years than at any other point in recorded history. ''Yet in many corners of the globe there is growing disillusionment,'' he continued. The main reason seems to be that the benefits of growth are flowing largely to only two groups: previously impoverished residents of Asia and an international elite. Summers's favorite statistic these days is that, since 1979, the share of pretax income going to the top 1 percent of American households has risen by 7 percentage points, to 16 percent. Over the same span, the share of income going to the bottom 80 percent has fallen by 7 percentage points. It's as if every household in that bottom 80 percent is writing a check for $7,000 every year and sending it to the top 1 percent. This is why the usual assurances that come from people like Summers -- that an open, technologically advanced global economy is inevitable and good -- feel, as he himself wrote in The Financial Times, like ''pretty thin gruel.'' 
 Dealing with this anxiety -- making globalization work for the masses -- has become the central economic issue of the day in Summers's mind. And since his Harvard presidency ended a year ago, he has set out on a search for solutions. To him, it seems like a natural sequel to the policies he pushed in the 1990s. To liberal Democrats, it seems long overdue. ''I breathe a great sigh of wistfulness and relief and say, 'Finally, they've come around,' '' Reich says. ''It was, I think, a fundamental failure on the part of the Democrats in the late '90s not to face the structural changes that needed to be faced.''
 Summers recently joined the board of Teach for America, in large measure to think more about education reform. He has also joined an advisory board of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, the state at the center of health care reform. (His gut instinct is that Massachusetts's universal-coverage plan isn't radical enough.) He has re-engaged in academic life, becoming the co-editor of a journal partly so he can nudge other economists to do research on big policy issues. With the Democrats back in control of Congress, he has testified at hearings and met privately with members to talk about inequality. His old friends and colleagues from the Clinton administration have now spread out to the Federal Reserve, Capitol Hill and, of course, Hillary Clinton's campaign. In effect, Summers is assembling a virtual think tank. ''I think the defining issue of our time is: Does the economic, social and political system work for the middle class?'' he told me. ''Because the system's viability, its staying power and its health depend on how well it works for the middle class.''
 At age 52, Larry Summers has already finished his first three careers. The son of two economists at the University of Pennsylvania and the nephew of two Nobel-winning economists, he enrolled at M.I.T. when he was 16. Then came the swift rise to tenure at Harvard, a flurry of research papers on seemingly every major topic in economics and an award called the John Bates Clark Medal, given every other year to the best economist under 40. ''I've been around some pretty smart people,'' said Jonathan Gruber, an M.I.T. economist and a former student of Summers's. ''But it's a different level with Larry.''
 The rap on him -- in academia and later in Washington, where he moved in 1991 to become the chief economist of the World Bank -- was always that he knew he was the smartest guy in the room and acted like it. At faculty seminars, he would sometimes interrupt another professor a few minutes into a presentation, succinctly summarize the undelivered portion, poke holes in the argument and offer suggestions about how to make the same points in more compelling fashion. To the great amusement of his colleagues at Treasury, he occasionally did the same thing to officials from foreign governments who had come to call on him. 
 But the notion that Summers can be a bully misses one thing: he likes it when people fight back. As Treasury secretary, he encouraged his own staff to disagree with him when they thought he was wrong. ''He was incredibly open to people pushing back and challenging him,'' said Timothy Geithner, the current president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who worked under Summers at Treasury. ''It's what he desires most. It's how he thinks through things.'' During a conversation I was having with him one morning in a Senate cafeteria, in the midst of explaining why he thought the pay of chief executives was economically rational, Summers stopped and said, ''When I've thought about possible explanations for this, one is that I'm wrong.'' 
 As a result of this intellectual playfulness, many people find it thrilling to talk with him. He loves to examine an idea from every possible angle, searching out the weaknesses in order to arrive at a better conclusion. Henry Kissinger has said that Summers should be given a permanent White House job, a sort of fixer of flabby policy ideas. Of course, Summers's style, or lack of it, is also at the root of his well-publicized missteps. 
 By most accounts, he did learn to soften himself while in Washington, which helps explain his successful decadelong run there. Shortly after Clinton left office in 2001, Summers was given the most prestigious job in higher education. It's hard to think of anyone else in public life today who has reached the pinnacle of three different careers. And Harvard was supposed to be the end of the Summers story. Given his age and his ambitions -- his plans to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in the life sciences, eliminate tuition for lower-income students and reinvigorate undergraduate education -- he seemed destined to lead the university for the next 20 years. 
 But back in academia, where social skills are not a prerequisite for success, he seemed to forget that his new job had more in common with being a cabinet secretary than with being a professor. Most famously, he wondered aloud at an academic conference in 2005 whether innate differences helped explain why men dominated the top ranks of research science. He never recovered.
 The most obvious place to land would have been Wall Street, and he talked with Goldman Sachs and Citigroup. But he instead took a lucrative part-time job at a big hedge fund, D.E. Shaw. Summers's main professional home remains, surprisingly, Harvard, where his wife, Elisa New, is a literature professor and he holds a distinguished endowed chair. 
 On a recent spring afternoon, he was the surprise guest speaker for the final meeting of a lecture course called Morality and Taboo, taught by Alan Dershowitz, the law professor, and Steven Pinker, the psychologist. They were prominent supporters of his presidency, and the occasion seemed ripe for self-justification. Summers has always kept the support of Harvard's undergraduates, and when he was introduced, the students in the classroom gave him a 20-second ovation. Some stood. In his introduction, Dershowitz defended Summers's remarks about gender and science as honest intellectual inquiry. But Summers wouldn't have it. ''I think it was, in retrospect, an act of spectacular imprudence,'' he told the class. He still maintains that some critics mischaracterized his remarks, but the bottom line is that girls around the world came to think that the president of Harvard believed they couldn't be scientists. ''There are enormous benefits to being a leader of a major institution, but there are also costs and limitations,'' he continued. ''I thought I could have it both ways, and I was wrong.'' Even when someone is defending him, Summers can't hold back from a debate. 
 In many ways, the political path that he has followed over his career is also the path of his party. The decades after World War II were dominated by the Keynesian notion -- shaped in part by one of his Nobel-winning uncles, Paul Samuelson -- that government was good. But the stagflation of the 1970s caused a whole of generation of economists to look instead toward the market, which seemed far more efficient at allocating resources. Today Summers says he believes in markets as much as ever, and he begins almost any discussion of globalization by pointing out its benefits. Food, clothing, furniture and dozens of everyday items are more affordable than they once were. Interest rates are low, as is inflation, and recessions come less often. Bringing down the deficit in the '90s, he argues, helped make this possible.
 But Summers says he now has to reckon with a new reality. Despite good growth over the last four years, the pay of most American workers has barely kept pace with inflation. Technology and global trade are conspiring to let highly skilled workers do more -- to be more productive and to play on a bigger stage -- while at the same time making millions of other workers replaceable. The middle-class income gains of the Clinton years now look like an aberration, caused by a combination of low oil prices (which allowed a dollar to go further) and a financial bubble that made the job market unusually tight. ''I don't think my general orientation to the world has changed,'' Summers says, noting that he favored interventions like tax credits for the poor during the '90s and continues to worry about the deficit today. ''But I think if you look at how the economy is working for average families, the sensible priority has shifted.'' Geithner, the New York Federal Reserve president, puts it this way: ''The facts have changed a little bit. That's what Larry's evolution reflects.''
 What's striking today is how much Democrats on either side of the 1990s debate agree with one another. Most say that globalization itself cannot be held back, because it stems more from the inexorable march of technology than from any change in trade laws. Credit-card call centers have moved to India and Ireland because they can function there, not because a new law allowed them to go. Trying to prevent jobs from leaving will create the problems that protectionism always had, like higher inflation and slower economic growth. But leaving the market to work its magic also won't do. Even the centrists within the party agree that the government needs to meddle in the economy more than it once did.
 The model that most appeals to Summers is, in fact, the United States -- in the decades after World War II. At the time, this country was opening itself to more global competition, by rebuilding Europe and signing financial agreements like Bretton Woods. But it was also taking concrete steps to build the modern middle class. In addition to the G.I. Bill, there were the Federal Housing Administration, the Interstate Highway System and a very different tax code. The history of progressivism ''has been one of the market being protected from its own excesses,'' Summers says. ''And I think now the challenge is, again, to protect a basic market system based on open trade and globalization, to make it one that works for everyone or for almost everyone, at a time when market forces are often producing outcomes that seem increasingly problematic to middle-class families.'' 
 A new social contract would look different, of course. The tax code of the 1950s, with a top marginal rate of 91 percent, stifled innovation. Today's system goes too far in the other direction, Summers says, exacerbating inequality with loopholes and deductions that let a lot of affluent families avoid taxes, and the Bush tax cuts haven't helped. Health care reform is another obvious priority. In Summers's view, the current employer-based system, which creates insecurity for many families and big costs for companies, may need to be replaced by one in which the government pays for insurance but individuals choose what plan they want. It would be single payer, but not as England or Canada does it. 
 Summers becomes really excited by what he sees as the potential for a life-sciences revolution. It will happen only if government again does its part, though, and in the last few years federal support for medical research has failed to keep pace with inflation. A more sensible policy, he argues, has the potential not only to keep people healthy and alive for longer but also to create well-paying jobs. He likes to talk about ''clusters'' like Silicon Valley -- in the life sciences and other areas -- where groups of companies can feed off one another to become more productive. Moving jobs to a low-wage country then becomes less attractive. And the government can help create clusters, just as it built the highway system and the Internet. If you didn't know any better, you might even refer to this idea as industrial policy. 
 Summers now occupies a funny place in the Democratic constellation. His various dust-ups over the years have left him with a fair number of enemies. But he also has a lot of influential fans, as well as the ability to inject an issue into the public debate merely by discussing it. Under a Democratic president, he would be an obvious candidate to run the Federal Reserve or the World Bank. But a more likely path could be the one taken by Kissinger, who has spent the last 30 years as a force in Republican foreign policy despite having been out of government. Summers may actually be better suited for this role than for some of the jobs he has held recently. It's one in which the quality of an idea matters more than its delivery.
 A freelance career would have its frustrations, but Summers has had some success in persuading others. Bill Gates has said he decided to devote much of his money to global poverty and disease after reading a 1993 World Bank report -- a report that Summers instigated. His efforts to recruit poor students to Harvard helped make a national issue of the lack of low-income students at elite colleges. In India, where politicians say he influenced their own approach to trade agreements, they still quote him the way people here quote Alan Greenspan. 
 ''I'm finding my way,'' Summers said about his newest career, his fourth. ''I think one has to be prepared to accept long causal chains. That is, if you're trying to think about a problem and propose a solution, it does not happen the next day. But it affects the climate of opinion, and things go from being inconceivable to being inevitable.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Nigel Parry) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HISTORY (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TAX LAW (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



195 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA FRENZY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: What Murdoch's Paper Chase Means for Business TV

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
MENSA quiz, sample question: Rupert Murdoch's $5 billion offer is to ---------- as Google's $1.65 billion buyout was to ----------. 
 Correct answers: Dow Jones and YouTube.
When Google swallowed YouTube, the video-sharing Web site, last year, the media and Web worlds were agog at YouTube's valuation, given that it was not yet two years old and barely made any money. Of course, that is very different from Dow Jones, a relatively ancient enterprise that has nearly $2 billion in revenue.
 But here, fellow brainiacs, are three remarkable similarities between the gambits by Google and Mr. Murdoch -- similarities that show why both deals make sense to them alone. 
 One is that both Google and Mr. Murdoch have plenty of money. The $1.65 billion that Google offered for YouTube seemed the equivalent of a rounding error, given Google's gigantic market value. Mr. Murdoch is not nearly as flush, but his News Corporation, valued at $70 billion, can easily absorb Dow Jones.
 The second similarity is that the offers are so whopping that they are very hard for the targets' owners to refuse. Third, and perhaps most telling, is that the goals have less to do with what the desired company does today than what it can do in the future. 
 In Google's case, the idea was to turn a popular Web site for looking at video clips into a hotbed of television-like programming and ads. 
 At Dow Jones, some see an enterprise dwarfed by electronic rivals and worryingly reliant on newspaper publishing economics. But Mr. Murdoch sees the company's flagship, The Wall Street Journal, as the hub for the digital transformation of newspapers he already owns around the world and as an engine for a global financial information business with print, online and TV components. 
 Whether Mr. Murdoch can pursue his dream hinges on negotiations with the Bancroft family, which controls Dow Jones, over how much autonomy he would guarantee in the newsroom. 
 If he succeeds, Mr. Murdoch will need to decide quickly how The Journal will fit into his plans to finally start a business news cable channel in the United States this fall. The new business channel will be an early indicator of whether his bold business gambit shows promise. 
 The issues surrounding the business channel are thorny, because CNBC, the leading financial news channel, has a deal to use Journal reporters as on-the-air personalities until 2012. (Dow Jones formerly owned half of CNBC's operations in Asia and Europe but sold them two years ago.) 
 Mr. Murdoch wants his new channel to rattle CNBC which is owned by NBC Universal, the way his Fox News Channel has rattled CNN and MSNBC. And Roger Ailes, who runs Fox News, once led CNBC to some of its best years. Certainly The Journal might help kick-start the new channel, but Mr. Murdoch faces the prospect of either waiting until the CNBC deal expires five years hence or trying to break or buy out the contract.
 And even if he could bring the storied newspaper's assets to his TV party (he has said he'd like to work ''Journal'' into the network's name, for one) the new channel faces the handicap, at least at the get-go, of being carried in only about a third of the 92 million homes that carry CNBC. (Even Bloomberg's television outlet reaches more viewers.) 
 Indeed, while they have been short on programming specifics, News Corporation officials have said they plan to spend $100 million on the channel's start-up, a trifle next to the proposed outlay for Dow Jones. 
 So what are the vulnerabilities at CNBC that Mr. Murdoch might like to exploit? It is a classic Murdoch target in the sense that it has a dominant position in a market where few others see an opening. 
 CNBC is certainly a rich mark. The channel generates an incredible annuity for NBC Universal, considering that it is guaranteed subscription fees from cable and satellite subscribers. Yet over a given day, viewership averages only around 218,000, according to Nielsen Media Research, just over one-tenth the number of people who subscribe to The Journal every weekday.
 To help it sop up advertising revenue, CNBC argues that its modest audience figures underestimate office and other ''out of home'' viewing that make up a majority of its high-income audience. 
 Despite its niche, CNBC is among the most profitable businesses in all of NBC Universal, generating around $300 million in operating profit a year. Jeff Zucker, NBC Universal's chief executive, told me last week that the channel was adrift as little as 18 months ago after a big drop in viewership, but that it has since been preparing for Mr. Murdoch's long-awaited challenge. Viewership is up 57 percent since 2005, as a result of an effort by CNBC's new president, Mark Hoffman, and his news chief, Jonathan Wald, to reinvigorate the channel.
 ''We don't take any competitor lightly,'' Mr. Zucker said. 
 Still, he added, Mr. Murdoch's legendary success with Fox News has overshadowed less successful television efforts in trying to set up a Fox Sports channel to challenge ESPN and in recently starting the MyNetwork TV network. ''Just because Rupert wants to do it doesn't mean it works,'' Mr. Zucker said. 
 That said, Mr. Zucker is watching keenly. If there is a rub against CNBC, it is the common refrain about NBC Universal: that as part of General Electric it may have played too safe for too long. Sure, CNBC, is a profit-spinner, the thinking goes, but it has never quite figured out evening or weekend programming and instead has relied on infomercials for revenue and reruns of shows like NBC's ''Deal or No Deal'' to bolster ratings. 
 Mr. Hoffman says he is working on filling these gaps. ''We've taken the last two and a half years to change the direction, to change the voice, to change the energy of what we're doing at CNBC,'' he said.
 Some wonder what would have been possible had G.E. bought Dow Jones in the mid-1990s -- which it considered doing -- rather than becoming long-term partners. But then, as now, NBC Universal and its G.E. bosses viewed Dow Jones as primarily a newspaper company -- and that was not deemed a growth business. Mr. Murdoch is more of a gambler in pursuit of his goals, the way Google was in buying the unproven YouTube. 
 ANOTHER area where the News Corporation sees an opening for its business news is online. CNBC, after years of licensing its content to Microsoft's MSN, only a few months ago introduced a new iteration of its own CNBC.com Web site. With 662,000 unique users in April, the site ranked a distant 22nd among financial news Web sites, according to comScore Media Metrix. Its audience is growing, but Dow Jones attracted nearly 10 times as many users between its WSJ.com paid site and its Marketwatch.com free business news destination, acquired in 2004. 
 The News Corporation currently has little presence in financial news, online or on cable. But Mr. Murdoch believes that his company is uniquely positioned to conquer the Web -- with everything from the Fox TV and film businesses to a new mobile arm to newspapers to MySpace -- even if it doesn't claim Dow Jones. 
 Mr. Ailes is plowing ahead with plans to set up the new business channel without presuming that The Journal will figure into them. Mr. Ailes declined to comment, and Fox News declined to give any specifics. 
 But if they do get The Journal, the nation's second-largest newspaper after USA Today, it will be interesting to see whether Mr. Murdoch and Mr. Ailes can crack the code for having a print news product translate into a world-beating brand on television, let alone the Web.
 As much as Mr. Zucker says he values the relationship between The Journal and CNBC, it's not clear how much the channel would suffer if the newspaper's reporters no longer appeared on the air alongside such better-known TV personalities as Jim Cramer and Maria Bartiromo (who is host for the only Journal-branded show on the network, ''The Wall Street Journal Report,'' which is shown in the quiet of Sunday nights at 7:30). 
 Recalling the day the story of Mr. Murdoch's audacious bid broke last month, Mr. Zucker noted jokingly: ''Let's remember who broke the story about Dow Jones -- it was CNBC. It was not The Wall Street Journal.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); WEB SITES (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); DOW JONES & CO INC (91%); NEWS CORP (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MENSA (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (92%); ROGER AILES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (75%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



196 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: Land of Plenty

BYLINE: By GEORGE F. WILL. 
George F. Will is a syndicated columnist.

 BODY:
THE AGE OF ABUNDANCE
 How Prosperity Transformed
 America's Politics and Culture.
 By Brink Lindsey.
 394 pp. Collins/HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95.
AFTER the privations of the Depression and war years, Congress passed and President Harry Truman signed the Employment Act of 1946, which made it federal policy to maintain ''the propensity to consume.'' The choice of the word ''propensity'' would have seemed droll, were any Congress capable of drollery. That mild noun hardly does justice to the primal urge, the almost metabolic necessity, for consumption that Americans felt as they came up, as it were, for their first breath of air since October 1929.
 Youth, too, came knocking at the door of prosperity, eager -- and able -- to participate in the fun. On Dec. 15, 1954 , ABC Tele vision showed the first installment of the series ''Davy Crockett.'' There were only three initial installments, the last of which was broadcast on Feb. 23, 1955. By then there was a nationwide craze for coonskin caps. By 1956, the average teenager's weekly income/allowance was $10.55, equal to the disposable income of a family in the early 1940s. 
 Yet material well-being brought a new kind of uneasiness. In his address to the 1964 Republican National Convention , which nominated him for president, Barry Goldwater spoke of ''the many who look beyond material success for the inner meaning of their lives.'' Six months later , President Lyndon B. Johnson, in his 1965 State of the Union address, spoke of a coming moment when ''freedom from the wants of the body can help fulfill the needs of the spirit.''
 Ever since mass affluence, a phenomenon without precedent in the human story, exploded upon postwar America, social and political theorists have wondered, and worried, about the moral and even the spiritual consequences of material conditions. Putting scarcity behind us has been pleasant, but has it been good for us -- meaning good for our souls?
 Half a century before the postwar era began, the connection between one kind of abundance and national character was postulated by Frederick Jackson Turner , who argued that America's democratic culture was shaped by the fact of the frontier, which promised land for all comers. In 1954 , the historian David M. Potter , in ''People of Plenty: Economic Abundance and the American Character,'' explored, among other subjects, how the ubiquity of advertising (also a preoccupation of John Kenneth Galbraith's ''Affluent Society,'' in 1958 ) conditions Americans' consciousness. In 1976 , the sociologist Daniel Bell warned about what he called ''the cultural contradictions of capitalism,'' by which he meant the tendency (or so he thought) of the abundance that capitalism produces to subvert the attitudes and aptitudes necessary for capitalism's success -- thriftiness, industriousness, the ability and willingness to defer gratifications.
 It took confidence for Brink Lindsey, of the libertarian Cato Institute in Washington, to venture onto this well-plowed ground with ''The Age of Abundance: How Prosperity Transformed America's Politics and Culture.'' This constantly stimulating book vindicates that confidence. His thesis, stated ironically with Karl Marx's categories, is that in the second half of the 20th century, America left the ''realm of necessity'' and entered the ''realm of freedom.'' Americans ''live on the far side of a great fault line'' separating them from all prior human experience.
 ''Americans,'' Lindsey writes, ''have become a different kind of people,'' transformed by capitalism's fecundity. Although often ''derided for its superficial banality,'' materialism has resulted in ''a flood tide of spiritual yearning.''Various scolds and worrywarts have exclaimed, with Wordsworth, that ''getting and spending, we lay waste our powers.'' To such Jeremiahs, Lindsey provides an essentially cheerful, although not altogether so, counterpoint: affluence has made America a more libertarian, and hence a nicer, place.
 First came material improvement. Until very recently, he notes, when people prayed for their daily bread, they often were praying for just that. Not so long ago, many ordinary lives of quiet desperation ended especially dismally: about 10 percent of burials in New York City in 1889 were in potter's fields. In 1900, 1.75 million children between the ages of 10 and 15 -- almost one-fifth of all children in that age cohort -- were in the work force. Children provided one-fourth to one-third of the incomes for working-class families, which spent more than 90 percent of their household earnings on food, shelter and clothing. In 1900, Americans spent nearly twice as much on funerals as on medicine, and less than 2 percent of Americans took vacations.
 Fast-forward to the end of the 1950s, when suddenly the number of Americans enrolled in colleges exceeded the number of American farmers. That decade, which has more than its fair share of cultured despisers, is remembered principally for (in Lindsey's unenthralled description) ''climbing the company ladder and winning the rat race and keeping up with the Joneses.'' But these preoccupations, even obsessions, were, Lindsey says, ''freely chosen -- which meant that other choices were possible.'' The people who would eventually make other choices, and who by doing so would threaten the postwar social order, ''lay in the quiet night of suburbia, slumbering in the children's bedrooms.''
 By 1960, in ''The End of Ideology,'' Daniel Bell had written that ''the workers, whose grievances were once the driving energy for social change, are more satisfied with the society than the intellectuals.'' By the end of that decade, those slumbering children had awakened and gone to college. There they worked out a stance toward life suited to the first generation that knew only a condition that no other generation had ever known -- the absence of scarcity.
 ''Rather than serving as a balm,'' Lindsey writes, ''affluence acted as instigator and rabble-rouser'' as Americans, and especially the young, became increasingly impatient with any conventions that restrained selfrealization. A 1962 Gallup poll found that only 10 percent of mothers hoped their daughters would emulate the choices they had made in their lives. The mothers got their wish. 
 Their daughters and sons were raised in accordance with precepts from another product of 1946 , Benjamin Spock's parenting manual, which took a benign view of children's instinctual lives. Soon, Lindsey says, these instincts produced a market for a new product -- ''rock 'n' roll, the music of libidinal release.'' ''Who do you sound like?'' asked a secretary at a Memphis recording studio in August 1953, when a truck driver came in seeking a singing career. ''I don't sound like nobody,'' answered Elvis Presley.
 The 1960s were 129 days old when, on May 9, the Food and Drug Administration approved the birth control pill, one enabler of the decade's cultural ferments. ''More than two-thirds of women who turned 18 during the '50s,'' Lindsey reports, ''claimed to have slept with only one man by their 30th birthday. By contrast, only 2 percent of women who reached adulthood during the '70s would admit similar restraint.'' By then, Lindsey says, a great sorting-out had occurred: ''On the left gathered those who were most alive to the new possibilities created by mass affluence but who, at the same time, were hostile to the social institutions responsible for creating those possibilities. On the right, meanwhile, rallied those who staunchly supported the institutions that created prosperity but who shrank from the social dynamism they were unleashing.''
 This political conflict quickly found religious expression. ''The antinomian excesses of the countercultural left'' provoked ''the dogmatic excesses of the religious right.'' Still, Lindsey believes that the new dimension of liberty -- emancipation from the preoccupation with subsistence -- has been a boon because material security has reduced ''stress.'' And that has reduced ''the appeal of inflexible moral norms,'' and unleashed a ''sustained and furious assault'' on other cultural constraints that might interfere with the pursuit of happi ness. This is why the supposedly grayflannel, buttoned-down, ''conformist'' 1950s were pregnant with the cultural commotions of the 1960s. And the 1960s culture -- the preoccupation with self- fulfillment and cultural acknowledgment -- has never ended.
 Affluence, Lindsey writes, has provided ''a mad proliferation of choices -- and what, in the end, is freedom but the ability to choose?'' Well.
 Praise for Edmund Burke is a kind of tic on the part of some conservatives, arising more from reflex than reflection. However, Burke provided a discomforting postulate that is a perennial challenge to conservatives of a libertarian tendency, like Lindsey: ''The effect of liberty to individuals is that they may do what they please: we ought to see what it will please them to do, before we risk congratulations.''
 At one point Lindsey says that ''contrary to those under the spell of the romantic delusion, not all limitations on choice are the enemies of freedom.'' Yet elsewhere he seems to say that the task of expanding freedom amounts to, and requires, nothing more than the expansion of the range of available choices. That leaves a question -- one of the biggest questions in political philosophy since Hobbes -- unaddressed:
 Is liberty valuable because it promotes virtuous behavior? Or is liberty merely necessary because, given that there are deep disagreements about what virtuous behavior is, we must agree to leave one another a lot of social space to do as we please, or we shall not have social peace?
 Lindsey tantalizes readers with some pithy judgments that call for more elaboration than he supplies, as when he denounces ''the naive equation of the virtuous and the uninhibited, a proposition that collapsed the distinction between individualism and infantilism.'' And he acutely sees that ''the Aquarian project'' had its own cultural contradictions: ''Without the immensely intricate division of labor developed and constantly elaborated by capitalism, there would have been no mass affluence; without mass affluence, there could have been no counterculture.''
 Lindsey is an economic thinker who, like John Maynard Keynes, has a flair for lapidary summations: ''Thus did the miracle in Bethlehem make way for the miracle on 34th Street.'' He means that there is a cultural connection between the manger and Macy's. The connection is the one that Max Weber discerned in ''The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism'' (1905). Several centuries of what Weber called the bourgeoisie's ''worldly asceticism'' -- self- denial for the purpose of accumulation -- produced abundance. And that made possible mass hedonism, ''a free-for-all of feverish and unquenchable desire,'' Lindsey says, as '' 'enough' proved an ever- receding horizon.''
 He believes that ''the common commitment to chase that horizon became the glue that held an increasingly pluralistic society together.'' Piffle. America's remarkable social cohesion is not reducible to that. We are a creedal nation, dedicated to a proposition, which is approximately this: All people are created equal and have a right to spacious freedom that produces unequal outcomes. 
 Lindsey rightly says that ''today's typical red-state conservative is considerably bluer on race relations, the role of women and sexual morality than his predecessor of a generation ago.'' And ''the typical bluestate liberal is considerably redder than his predecessor when it comes to the importance of markets to economic growth, the virtues of the two-parent family and the morality of American geopolitical power.'' In ''the bell curve of ideological allegiance,'' the large bulging center has settled, for now, on an ''implicit libertarian synthesis, one which reaffirms the core disciplines that underlie and sustain the modern lifestyle while making much greater allowances for variations within that lifestyle.'' If so, material abundance has been, on balance , good for us, and Lindsey's measured cheerfulness is, like his scintillating book, reasonable. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (illustration by Wink) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (65%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



197 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a senior research assistant at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings and the co-author of ''Hard Power.'' Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
WHILE the American and Iraqi troops for the so-called surge are nearly all in place, it's far too early to judge the effect. Still, given America's waning patience with the war and the bad circumstances that prevailed in Iraq when the surge began, optimism is hard to come by. Our latest chart of leading indicators, based on American and Iraqi government data and news reports, doesn't brighten the picture much. 
 First, the good news. Overall levels of violence are down somewhat in Baghdad. Extrajudicial killings -- largely reprisal assassinations carried out against Sunnis by Shiite militias -- are about 50 percent below levels from the winter. In violent Anbar Province, security cooperation among sheiks, their followers, the Iraqi government and Coalition forces against Al Qaeda remains impressive.
 A number of extremist militia members and Qaeda operatives have been killed and captured in the Baghdad area, with American and Iraqi forces conducting 6 to 12 raids per day. These attacks help explain the rising American death tolls of April and May, which are obviously not good news, but may offer hope of a somewhat calmer future. 
 Alas, bad news still dominates. Overall levels of violence remain very high by the standards of other countries suffering from civil conflicts, and also in comparison with the Iraq of 2003 through 2005. Bombings by Sunni insurgents and Qaeda terrorists remain prevalent enough that the current restraint being exercised by most Shiite militias will be difficult to sustain. Cities like Kirkuk and Mosul remain tinderboxes. The economy remains stagnant and utility performance abysmal.
 And, perhaps worst of all, the Iraqi political system has failed to deliver any real progress on the core issues dividing Sunni from Shiite from Kurd, without which there will be no lasting peace. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph tracks the following for every May since 2003: U.S. Troops in Iraq (in thousands) Other Foreign Troops (in thousands) U.S. Troop Deaths U.S. Troop Deaths From Homemade Bombs (percent) Iraqi Security Forces Iraqi Security Force Fatalities Monthly Attacks Against Coalition and Civilians Iraqi Civilian Deaths New Iraqi Civilians Displaced by Violence (in thousands) Multiple Fatality Bombings Oil Production (in millions of barrels per day
prewar: up to 2.5) Household Fuel Supply (as percentage of estimated need) Electricity Production (average megawatts
prewar: 4,000) Unemployment Rate (percent) Telephone Subscribers (in millions
 prewar: 0.8) Annual Gross Domestic Product Growth Rate (percent) Iraqis Saying Country Is Headed in Right Direction (percent) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICS (69%); AL-QAEDA (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



198 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: JUNE 4-8; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Rates Rise, and Stocks Fall

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
While the markets shifted to a happier note on Friday, the week was a troubling one for many investors, as stock and bond prices fell sharply and long-term interest rates soared. 
 A stock market rebound on Friday made up for a small portion of the week's losses, which appeared to have been set off by the remarks of Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. He said that inflation remains a threat, echoing language that he and other Fed officials have been using in recent weeks, but nevertheless worrying many traders.
 Longer-term interest rates rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond breaching the 5 percent level for the first time in nine months, and ending the week at 5.10 percent, up from 4.95 percent the previous week. That rate affects the cost of borrowing for homeowners and corporations alike, and it could slow down the brisk pace of mergers and acquisitions. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 243.72 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 13,424.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 28.67 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 1,507.67. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 40.38 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 2,573.54. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS'' Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. Netflix NNM: NFLX Analysts speculated that the Netflix, the biggest provider of video rentals by mail, could be acquired by Amazon.com. Netflix has been building a Web video downloading service to compete with Amazon's Unbox service. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.43 WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.62% EST. '07 P/E: 29.14 Scholastic NNM: SCHL The publisher of educational texts and the ''Harry Potter'' series announced a share buyback plan that could add about 8 percent to the company's fiscal 2008 earnings per share. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.26 WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.54% EST. '07 P/E: 24.50 National Semiconductor NYSE: NSM The chip maker reported profit and revenue that were above analysts' estimates. It also said that orders rose from the earlier quarter and that inventory was relatively low. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: 29.58 WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.83% EST. '07 P/E: 23.84 Avaya NYSE: AV The telecommunications company agreed to sell itself to the private equity firms TPG Capital and Silver Lake for $8.2 billion. The stock kept its gains even after an analyst downgraded the company later in the week. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.02 WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.85% EST. '07 P/E: 28.65 Panera Bread NNM: PNRA The operator of bakeries and cafes reported a lower-than-expected same-store sales gain for May. It also cut its earnings and sales guidance for its second quarter. Several analysts cut their ratings on the company. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.01 WEEK'S CHANGE: -13.61% EST. '07 P/E: 24.07 Bare Escentuals NNM: BARE The cosmetics retailer said second-quarter earnings would be on the low end of analysts' estimates. It said it expects to earn between 20 cents and 22 cents a share
 analysts had estimated a profit of 22 cents a share. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.28 WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.16% EST. '07 P/E: 39.88 Nike NYSE: NKE An analyst at Banc of America Securities downgraded the shoe company and the retailer Foot Locker, saying the sneaker market in the United States faces lower prices, excessive inventory and lackluster demand. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $52.96 WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.58% EST. '07 P/E: 18.13 Alcoa NYSE: AA The aluminum company asked antitrust regulators in the United States to approve its proposed $27 billion hostile takeover of a Canadian rival, Alcan. Alcan last month rejected Alcoa's takeover offer as inadequate. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.66 WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.34% EST. '07 P/E: 12.21 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MERGERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



199 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs: Symptom or Disease?

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 ''Health Care as if Costs Didn't Matter,'' by David Leonhardt (Economix column, June 6), focuses on the core issues of cost control in our current system. 
 The biggest problems are unproven and unnecessary procedures that require hospital services with high reimbursement, as well as expensive new drugs that have no advantage over generics or existing brand drugs.
Basic universal health care must exclude certain expensive drugs and procedures that are not proved to be superior. An impartial specialist consultant would need the power to deny coverage. 
 Unfortunately, politicians have offered few specific remedies, focusing instead, as Mr. Leonhardt points out, on information technology. Computerizing medical records has value, but it won't reduce costs. Gottfried K. Spring, M.D. Cleveland, June 6, 2007 To the Editor:
 Ah, but the 50 million Americans who lack health insurance do, in fact, contribute to the rising cost of health insurance.
 They receive most of their care at expensive emergency rooms. The institutions, overwhelmed by the volume of uncompensated care, shift the costs to the insurance companies, which in turn increase premiums, co-payments and deductibles. 
 As these costs increase, businesses as well as individuals are priced out of the system, creating more uninsured to go to emergency rooms.
 The only solution is a single-payer system that is equivalent to Medicare for all. Donald L. Rucknagel, M.D. Cincinnati, June 6, 2007 To the Editor:
 Instead of focusing on denying care when patients are already sick, why not improve preventive care? 
 Preventive care is usually far less expensive than treating a full-blown injury or disease. In the case of back pain, losing weight and lifting heavy objects correctly would likely reduce a patient's chance of becoming injured in the first place. Nina Lanza Albuquerque, June 6, 2007 To the Editor:
 I agree with David Leonhardt (Economix column, June 6) that the lack of insurance is not causing the health care crisis. Rather, it is a symptom, and focusing on it will not solve the problem.
 When I worked for the California Legislature and drafted universal health insurance legislation (which was passed and then vetoed by the governor), it became clear that ''expensive, medically questionable treatments'' are but one of the underlying problems. 
 Others are unplanned and uncoordinated capital health care expenditures; failure to consolidate purchasing power to lower drug costs; and huge administrative expenses. 
 Would-be reformers, including presidential hopefuls, would be well advised to study those systems that have solved all four health crisis culprits. Judy Spelman Point Reyes Station, Calif. June 7, 2007 The writer, a nurse, served as health consultant to State Senator Sheila Kuehl. To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt uses the example of lumbar fusion versus nonsurgical alternatives to argue against coverage of more expensive treatments. This is a convenient example because the success rate of lumbar fusion is so low. 
 What about a patient in chronic pain who has tried all medications except a new, very expensive drug called Actiq? What about a patient with multiple sclerosis whose condition deteriorates quickly unless she is given IVIg, an expensive treatment that some insurers refuse to cover?
 Should we allow cost to dictate health care decisions when we know that the patient's condition will improve with the more expensive treatment? Jennifer C. Jaff Farmington, Conn. June 6, 2007 The writer, a lawyer, is the founder of Advocacy for Patients With Chronic Illness. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Balint Zsako) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); HOSPITALS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); INSURANCE LAW (73%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); VETO (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007



200 of 576 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Cocaine: Hidden In Plain Sight

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
''SKIING on the beach tomorrow?''
 ''Late-night ski lift looking for a snow bunny.''
''Where are the cool Brooklyn ski bums? I've got tons to share.''
 ''Take a ride on the snow train.''
 The come-ons in the Casual Encounters section of Craigslist last week -- or any week -- are as plentiful as they are obvious (and cheesy). Using a variety of euphemisms that have been around since Jay McInerney wrote about Bolivian Marching Powder, posters invite others to join them for a line or a lost weekend fueled by cocaine. 
 The cheeky openness of these ads is hardly anomalous. While cocaine and drug abuse seem to have faded from the headlines, with coverage limited to the not-so-veiled references surrounding the exploits of waifish celebrities, it is still very much a part of the social scene, especially in New York. 
 Evidence of that is popping up in music, television and even theater. Indeed, for a generation that has not had its John Belushi to drive home the dangers of drug abuse, references and even use are open, casual, even blatant. 
 ''You do see it,'' said Noel Ashman, an owner of the Plumm, a hotspot near the meatpacking district. ''We're pretty tight at the club with drug use, whenever we see it we kick it right out. But it has popped up more than it did five years ago.''
 And like the red flash of a Louboutin pump, it is easy to spot.
 ''It's definitely prevalent in clubs, bars, parties -- everywhere, basically,'' said Cristiano Andrade, 26, a Brooklynite who manages a wine shop and goes out in the city once or twice a week. 
 Drug-abuse experts say the blase attitude toward cocaine use is a result of ''generational amnesia.'' 
 ''There seems to be less of a stigma about'' cocaine, said Dr. Herbert Kleber, director of the division of substance abuse at the New York State Psychiatric Institute in Manhattan. As part of his oversight of research into cocaine addiction and treatment, and in his private clinical practice, Dr. Kleber hears stories about the drug's use. ''People don't feel nearly as much the need to hide it,'' he said. ''They feel that they can use it in a more open fashion.'' 
 The visibility of cultural markers -- and the absence of cautionary tales -- leads to the assumption that coke is not as harmful, say, as heroin (which was associated with the high-profile overdoses of River Phoenix and Kurt Cobain in the 90s), or methamphetamine, whose recent popularity in the gay community has led to a targeted campaign against it, said Perry N. Halkitis, a professor of applied psychology at New York University who studies behavior, the AIDS epidemic and drug abuse.
 ''If you're a 19-year-old and you go out and party and you're offered meth, you say no because you've heard these bad things,'' he said. ''But you're offered coke, you say yes because you assume it's safe.'' And, he added, as the authorities crack down on meth, ''people are going to tend to go to cocaine, which has similar, if not identical properties'' as a stimulant. 
 NOT to mention that the supply and the price of cocaine, about $25 to $30 on the street for a half-gram bag, have remained stable for several years, said John Galea, director of the street studies unit of the New York State Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services. (In rare cases, a large bust can affect prices. Chief James P. O'Neill, the commanding officer of the New York Police Department Narcotics Division, said the authorities seized a record 20 tons of cocaine off the coast of Panama in March, and wholesale prices rose in the last few weeks.) 
 A prevalence among young people is not entirely borne out by national statistics. According to an annual survey by the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, lifetime cocaine use remained stable between 2002 and 2005 among 18- to 25-year-olds. (Data before 2002 are noncomparable.) But the study -- which estimates national rates based on a poll of 67,500 people -- recorded a 20 percent increase in past-month use among that age group in 2005 from 2004, the last period for which data were available, said Joe Gfroerer, the group's director of the division of population surveys. (There was no change in usage rates among people over 26.)
 The Police Department has not recorded an increase in drug-related arrests at clubs recently, Chief O'Neill said. But, he added, ''It doesn't mean if you're doing drugs in a club you won't get caught.'' 
 But in interviews over the last five months with people in the night-life, entertainment, media and finance industries, all said that cocaine is a prominent part of a night out. Teron Beal, 34, a songwriter and aspiring actor, said he encountered cocaine regularly and does it occasionally -- and not only in clubs and bars. ''When you're in meetings and you're in the studio, it's offered like coffee,'' he said. ''If you say yeah, they're cool with it and if you say no, they're like O.K., and they just go and do it in front of you.''
 ''Coke is the new weed,'' he continued. ''Everybody says that.''
 Tom Sykes, a former night-life reporter for The New York Post who chronicled his alcohol- and drug-fueled life in the memoir ''What Did I Do Last Night?'' said that cocaine is more socially acceptable than smoking. ''You could go into a swanky party in New York and do a line and nobody would notice,'' said Mr. Sykes, who is now sober. ''Pull out a cigarette and people would think you'd pulled out a gun.''
 And cocaine is not only popular in New York. ''When I go to travel somewhere else, people think I do it and they're so eager to shove it up my nose,'' said Roxy Summers, a party promoter and D.J. who goes by the name Oxy Cottontail. 
 Mr. Beal, who is old enough to remember the drug wars of the 80s, said the perception of the drug has changed. ''When I was growing up, it was like a VH-1 'Behind the Music' moment whenever anyone talked about their cocaine habit,'' he said. ''It was like rock bottom, coke is crazy.'' Now, he said, it is merely flashy fun.
 Dominic Streatfeild, the author of ''Cocaine: An Unauthorized Biography,'' who is based in London, where according to recent government studies, use among young people has tripled since the late 90s, had another theory. ''In a culture obsessed with celebrity,'' he said, ''the fact that cocaine makes you feel rich and beautiful -- it's the perfect drug for our times.'' 
 With Wall Street surging and a 24-hour global economy, young professionals have the money and the incentive to stay constantly wired.
 ''I do it every day,'' said Kristoff, a European transplant to New York who works in finance and would not give his last name. He said he pays $150 for two grams of cocaine. ''If I have to work at 6 in the morning and I have to be on top of the game, I'll do it. I'll take a gram of coke and make half a million dollars.'' 
 That cavalier attitude carries over to pop culture, where references to cocaine are as prevalent as the 80s fashions that accompanied its previous heyday. Cocaine rap is a recognized genre in hip-hop, as Sasha Frere-Jones noted in a December 2006 article in the New Yorker; the platinum-selling rapper Young Jeezy made his name rhyming about his days as a dealer and adopted a menacing-looking snowman as his logo. In the last few years, the drug has been the subject of multiple anthologies, some of them flattering. 
 Recently the comic Todd Barry, a staple of the downtown comedy circuit, used a conversation he heard at a bar -- when one man called a friend to remedy his ''nose problem'' -- as the basis for a new joke in his act. And on a recent episode of NBC's ''30 Rock'' when two go-getter writers attribute their success to cocaine, it was a laugh line, not a rebuke. 
 Even Broadway is not exempt: In ''Talk Radio'' and ''Jack Goes Boating'' (starring Liev Schreiber and Philip Seymour Hoffman, respectively), the characters do lines and carry on. 
 When Gridskipper, a travel blog, ran a post in March about the top bars in which to find cocaine in New York, the response was so overwhelming -- the list of places named was like a taxonomy of ''it'' joints on the Lower East Side, the meatpacking district and Williamsburg -- and the comment section so lively that the editors pursued the subject for several more days. 
 ''Drug use tends to be cyclic,'' Dr. Kleber said. ''If you have a really dangerous drug, the generational remembering will come back quickly. If it takes time for the casualties to add up, the epidemic will last longer.'' Referring to the drug's last heyday, he added, ''As some of my colleagues said, John Belushi had to die before people believed that these drugs were really dangerous.''
 Besides its addictive potential, cocaine can cause elevated blood pressure, seizures, stroke, cardiac arrest or other heart problems, particularly in people with a pre-disposition. Combining it with alcohol, as many do, increases its toxicity, particularly in the liver, said Dr. Thomas Kosten, a professor of psychiatry and neuroscience and the director of the division of addictions at Baylor College of Medicine.
 But these negative effects are overshadowed by the drug's glamorous image, which is perhaps best personified by Kate Moss. After a brief furor when photographs of Ms. Moss apparently snorting cocaine appeared on the cover of a British tabloid in 2005, she entered rehab for a short time and emerged more successful than ever, with bigger advertising contracts and her own line of clothing at Topshop, the British retailer.
 ''You never hear about the addiction, you just hear about exclusive photos of wild parties with cocaine, '' Mr. Streatfeild said. ''The dangers of cocaine are without a doubt very real, but it's never dispelled that Champagne image.''
 IT took the death last February of the skateboard star and downtown bon vivant Harold Hunter, who died at 31 of a heart attack and whose wake was attended by friends like Rosario Dawson, for Ms. Summers, the D.J. and promoter, to rethink her own behavior. 
 ''Harold's death really affected me; I know the ways in which he treated night life,'' she said, adding that she ''never touched'' cocaine again. Likewise, she said, people in her community of downtown skateboarders, musicians, artists, and D.J.s went into hiding with their drug habits. ''But,'' she added, ''that only lasted six months, if that.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by John Ritter)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (92%); SKIING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); PARTY DRUGS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); MEMORY DISORDERS (69%); HEROIN (69%); METHAMPHETAMINE (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

 
