

601 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Big Freeze Blights a Citrus Crop, and the Lives of Workers

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: PORTERVILLE, Calif.

 BODY:
When winter threw a fit last Christmas, slamming through the Central Valley and scaring the life out of the citrus groves, people here were sure 1999 was over.
It was. By the time the ice storms backed off four days later, the orange and lemon crops were nearly gone, and so were the picking and packing jobs. 
 The freeze destroyed more than $700 million worth of produce in the Central Valley, the nation's largest food producer, including more than 75 percent of the valley's navel oranges, about 83 percent of its Valencia oranges and virtually all the lemons. The storms left from 14,000 to 28,000 farmworkers out of work.
More than half a year later, with the sunlight pressing on the valley like a hot compress, the damage from the freeze is getting worse. Growers and packing-house owners are up to their chins in debt; workers are up to their eyes in it.
To see the dusty towns in freeze-struck counties like Tulare, which grows many of the nation's navel oranges, one would never know that this nation is richer than ever, a gushing geyser of money and jobs. People stand in long lines for boxes of free Government-issue food -- white cans with big black letters that say pork, peaches and peas. Some people are moving from houses and apartments into decrepit trailers to save on rent. Others have pulled up stakes, packing their children and setting out in pickup trucks to hunt down jobs: two weeks picking cherries in Stockton; two weeks working the strawberry fields in Oregon. Then, maybe, on to Seattle.
Even in good times, the Central Valley's core, from Stockton to Bakersfield, is a vivid reminder that there are swaths of this country where families must literally count their pennies. Unemployment in Tulare County, where the freeze hit hardest, usually hovers around 15 percent, more than 40 percent in some towns. It takes a long time to recover from one fierce display of nature. Unemployment is now more than 20 percent countywide -- 50 percent in some rural areas. Most people do not expect life to return to normal again until the navel orange harvest begins in late fall, or to fully recover for at least another year.
The last freeze struck in 1990, and people say they are still recovering from that one.
"I wanted to leave this time," said Victor Espinoza, who said he had spent 25 years working the lemon and orange orchards of Tulare County. Sitting in his front yard in Porterville, a town the freeze laid flat on its back, he said he was stir-crazy after nearly seven months without work. He has a wife and teen-age daughter to support, and he has bills to pay, same as everybody. "I wanted to go to Stockton or Washington," he said. "But friends said, 'Don't bother. There are too many workers, working too little.' "
Here in Porterville, which has 37,000 residents, thousands and thousands of ruined oranges, their insides like little straw balls, lie strewn all over the groves. Nearly everyone depends on the crops one way or another. If the businesses do not grow, ship, pick or pack, their customers do. So downtown, J. C. Penney, the mutliplex movie theater and the Cookie Jar Cafe are all empty.
Agencies, government and otherwise, have helped. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has handed out $4.6 million in mortgage and rental assistance to more than 2,700 workers. The state Legislature, after lobbying by nonprofit community organizations and the United Farm Workers, temporarily increased the maximum a worker can earn and still receive unemployment benefits from $25 a week to $200 so that workers called for a few hours will not lose more by working than by collecting $150 unemployment checks. The United States Department of Agriculture is providing food to affected workers, as are churches and private food pantries. The state has given some aid, and small numbers of workers have obtained temporary community-service jobs.
But the aid has not reached everyone, or even most people. Most of the out-of-work laborers are immigrants, some legal, some not. "There are some enormous cracks" in the system, said James Gordon, the chief executive officer of Proteus, a nonprofit community organization in Visalia that has a contract from Federal and local governments to provide freeze relief.
For example, he said, men who have not registered for selective service are not eligible for emergency aid, though many are immigrants who arrived in the United States after age 26 or who never knew about the requirement. During the last freeze, changes in welfare laws meant that undocumented workers, who make up an estimated 50 percent of the pickers, could no longer receive emergency aid. Even some people with legal work permits have been too intimidated to apply for help.
Guadalupe Arceo, a 30-year-old mother of three, is one of those. Ms. Arceo, who is separated from her husband, has neither worked nor received any aid this year. When she applied for rental assistance, she said, she was told -- wrongly, relief workers say -- that she might hurt her application for permanent resident status because the Immigration and Naturalization Service would not look kindly on applicants who might be a public burden.
Although eligible, Ms. Arceo has never applied for food stamps or aid for her children, ages 3 to 11. Since December, she has paid the $280 rent for her apartment in a public housing project with loans from relatives. Last month they told her their money had run out. They suggested that she move to New York to get a job to pay her bills.
For years, Ms. Arceo has eked out a life here so that her children could remain in their hometown, Now, she said, leaving is her only choice.
"I'll live with my brother's family in Manhattan through the summer, make enough to pay the rent here and more, and come back when the season starts again in November," she said, plane tickets in hand. "I don't see any other remedy."
Grape workers are also in trouble because they are not eligible for any freeze relief, even though they, too, were affected. Many of their jobs were taken when labor contractors replaced them with laid-off citrus workers willing to work for minimum wage.
Antonio and Melania Gomez, who have spent more than 20 years picking grapes in Tulare County, and who scraped together enough money to buy a little house in Porterville nine years ago, have barely worked three weeks this year. Their bills are stuffed into a letter holder in their living room, months of utility bills, not including the high-interest loans they have taken from acquaintances.
Their bank, they said, told them that it would turn them over to a collection agency if they missed just one mortgage payment, and they were turned down by every agency they asked for help. They cannot receive welfare ("Not that we've ever wanted that!" Mrs. Gomez said) because they own a house. It is a very humble house, in a poor neighborhood, but a house nonetheless. They are raising a 3-year-old grandson, but they receive no aid for him because they are not his legal guardians.
"I beg," Mrs. Gomez said, blushing deep red, as her husband left the room to get Cokes for his guests. "I drive to the nearby towns, stand on the corners and put out my hand. I stand on line for food and I stand on corners for money, because otherwise, we would starve, and we would sleep on the streets."
The grape harvest, which was supposed to begin again the first week of July, has been delayed a week or more by a mid-April cold snap. The Gomezes worry that all the extra laborers will finish the season's work early and they will never catch up on their debts.
"We are so disillusioned that we're putting the house up for sale," Mrs. Gomez said.
Some workers are relatively lucky. Mirna Gonzalez, who earned a reasonable living working in a large packing house, is one of 16 citrus workers now employed as temporary community organizers for the National Farmworkers Service Center. The group offers advice to workers and, with the state Department of Social Services and Foodlink, a nonprofit organization, distributes food boxes in 32 communities. Ms. Gonzalez's husband, also a citrus worker, is one of 8,000 laid-off workers collecting unemployment. "When I visit other families," Mrs. Gonzalez said, "especially those who are not documented and are not getting any help, I think we're very lucky."
The workers who live in the worst conditions are in shed-like cement buildings, 12 men to one house, and in trailer parks where chickens and pigeons roam on the pitted dirt roads.
Ramona Martinez, an undocumented citrus worker, has spent eight years picking oranges while living in a one-bedroom trailer with her husband, three sons and her 68-year-old mother. She said the family was starting to earn enough to move up. But that hope was wiped out by the freeze. She and her husband, who are both trying to become legal workers, pay their $200 rent with money they receive in aid for their American-born children, and they buy food with $150 a month in food stamps.
Mr. Martinez, also an orange picker, has just taken a two-week job as a mechanic's assistant, while her eldest son, who is 11, does odd jobs for tips -- packing groceries or pumping gas or stocking shelves. Then he gives his mother the money.
The boy "keeps saying, 'Let's go back to Mexico, where we could live better,' " Mrs. Martinez said with a laugh. Like many immigrants in Tulare County, the family comes from a dirt-poor town in Michoacan, in central Mexico. She said she tells her son that they are still better off here than there, or just the same when there is a freeze.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last Christmas a storm destroyed $700 million worth of crops in the fertile Central Valley of California and also left 14,000 to 28,000 people out of work. This month a grove in Porterville is still suffering from effects of the weather, with many oranges lying ruined, their pulp as dry as straw. In Porterville, most people depend on the citrus crop. And when it failed, the town was hit hard. On June 19, unemployed workers lined up for boxes of food, distributed by the National Farmworkers Service Center. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTERVILLE (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CITRUS FRUITS; LABOR; WEATHER CITRUS GROVES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); ORANGE GROVES (89%); FAMILY (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN GUADALUPE ARCEO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



602 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Free Pills for Geezers?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"Free milk for babies" was the battle cry of social reformers a century ago. Today the bumper sticker of those pressing for inclusion of prescription drugs in Medicare might read "Free Pills for Geezers."
(I'll get mail from members of my age cohort whining about geezer as a demographic slur, but it's no more pejorative than "young whippersnapper.") 
 Just as free milk was good for youngsters, free pills will be good for indigent oldsters. Medication, especially in geriatric and psychiatric treatment, is often better and always cheaper than hospitalization. Insurance coverage of most prescriptions for the aging is an idea whose time has come; the only question is how best to pay for it without more speedily bankrupting Medicare.
Only a few days ago, the White House had its answer: sock the middle class and wealthy in Medicare with a bigger premium to cover the costs of prescriptions for poor people. Through a "means test," Mr. Clinton would be Dr. Robin Hood.
Democrats in Congress popped that trial balloon in a hurry. Raise premiums on the old folks? Political suicide. Republicans agreed, asking why retirees who saved and invested to build a nest egg all their lives should be penalized for their prudence by becoming targets of a tax increase.
After some frantic scrambling, Clinton came up with a fallback plan for announcement tomorrow. How, without a new premium increase, do you add a prescription benefit to Medicare, which already faces insolvency in eight years?
His answer: out of the pocket of the taxpayer. According to Robert Pear, who consistently comes to work earlier than any other reporter in the New York Times Washington bureau, "Medicare would get a huge infusion of cash from the Federal Treasury: $700 billion, representing about 15 percent of Federal budget surpluses anticipated over the next 15 years."
Stipulate that a new benefit will never be taken back. Remember that all official projections of Federal deficits and surpluses for the past 15 years have been wildly mistaken. Then ask: Can we be sure that the business cycle will become an arrow straight upward, that no tax reduction will ever be needed to stimulate a faltering economy -- in essence, that Miss America is Rosy Scenario?
Optimism is in, but to base the solvency of Medicare on the willingness of the next generation of taxpayers to subsidize a planned, ever-increasing tide of red ink is more than a little risky.
Beware reliance on a permanent surplus. Twenty years from now, the children of today's boomers might not want to carry the heavy tax burden to support a generation that bet on the come, irresponsibly refusing to plan ahead to insure itself.
Beware, too, of killing the goose that lays the golden pills. The most troubling two words in the Clinton 80-minute news ramble touched on the prescription drugs to be dispensed under Medicare: they had to be "properly priced."
Is Washington to decide on what price is "proper" for a new drug? It's fine for government to help negotiate volume discounts for purchases, but destructive to snatch the pricing function from the free market.
If Medicare listens to demagogic complaints about greedy profits for the latest pharmaceuticals and dictates the price it will pay, private investment risking its capital in discovering new treatments will dry up. Take it from one who wrote Nixon's speech imposing price controls; they don't work.
How, then, do we make it possible now for a poor Pop to pop a pill? It's not rocket science and requires no universe-wide government takeover of the health care system.
Months ago, the bipartisan Breaux-Thomas Medicare commission came up with a sensible plan of premium support that would help Medicare recipients pay for a health plan of their choosing. It's not "free pills for all," but it's similar to the generous Federal-employee plan, and the better-off can buy more benefits. What's needed now is to add a prescription-drug benefit to the basic benefits package.
Clinton stiffed the commission's proposals: not expensive enough, provided no political issue, and the Clinton name was not on them.
But it's practical and doable this year. If you want prescriptions covered through Medicare, raise your voice, Gramps. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); GERIATRICS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (57%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



603 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Where Prison Plans Cast a Pall Unto the Heavens

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Vt., June 26

 BODY:
When residents in this economically hard-pressed town vote on Tuesday on whether to allow construction of what will be Vermont's largest prison, the fate of the annual stargazer convention may be decided as well.
The Stellafane Convention for telescope builders is considered to be one of the biggest "star parties" in the nation. Last year's the Stellafane conclave drew over 2,500 enthusiasts to boulder-capped Breezy Hill, just three miles west of the proposed site of a $26 million prison. 
 Fearing that bright lights at the 350-bed correctional institution will cloud their view of the heavens, the Stellafane devotees took action, and by Friday, had given Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont a petition with more than 700 signatures protesting the proposed prison's proximity to the Stellafane observatory, one of only three national historic landmarks in the state.
"This is a beautiful place where the night sky is incredibly transparent," said Maryann Arrien, president of the Springfield Telescope Makers, the group that maintains the two observatories at Stellafane and oversees the convention each year in southeastern Vermont. "You can see stars of the faintest magnitudes plus the dust lanes of the Milky Way. Why ruin it for the sake of 350 criminals?"
A Stellafane stalwart, Brad Vietje, said the annual convention brings more than $1.5 million in revenue to town businesses.
The first observatory named Stellafane, Latin for "shrine to the stars," was built in 1923 when Russell W. Porter, a Springfield native and later one of the designers of the 200-inch-diameter Hale Telescope at Mount Palomar, Calif., constructed a two-story clubhouse for the Springfield Telescope Makers, an informal yet earnest group, on 30 acres his parents had given him.
Years earlier, Mr. Porter and several others working at Jones & Lamson, a local machine-tool company, had been inspired by James Hartness, inventor of the turret lathe and his own tracking telescope, and later president of Jones & Lamson.
In 1926, the Springfield Telescope Makers invited other groups of stargazers to Stellafane to exchange ideas and compare instruments, beginning a tradition. Each summer, telescope builders and astronomers make the pilgrimage to the Stellafane clubhouse and observatory, still painted the light pink that Mr. Porter first used.
At a town meeting last week to discuss the prison plan, state engineer James Richardson contended that light pollution from the prison would brighten the night sky only 1 percent. Several scientists, in letters of protest to Governor Dean and other state officials, noted that even a fraction of the light generated by a prison would severely limit stargazing at Stellafane.
But Vermont needs a new prison because its older ones are full; many of the state's prisoners are sent to cells in New Jersey and Virginia. The prison in Woodstock, in the southeastern part of the state, will soon close its doors, and Governor Dean has strongly supported the construction of a new prison in the same part of the state.
So far, it has been a hard sell.
Windsor residents overwhelmingly voted not to expand the small, 100-bed correctional institution there. Brattleboro voters, followed by their neighbors in Rockingham, both voted against considering a prison.
However, a year and a half ago, voters in Springfield, heartened by the prospect of a much-needed economic lift, gave the town's Select Board the approval to negotiate a deal to bring the prison to town.
Once regarded the center of this country's machine-tool industry, Springfield has suffered years of economic decline. Thousands of skilled machinist jobs were lost over the last 25 years as the big companies in town -- Jones & Lamson, Bryant Grinder and Fellows Gear Shaping -- lost orders to growing competition from abroad.
Patricia Moulton Powden, executive director of the Springfield Regional Development Corporation, said, "This community needs and wants more decent paying jobs." But water and sewage lines need upgrading, at an estimated cost of more than $10 million, before the town can attract new manufacturers.
The state has promised Springfield about $7 million in incentives to accept the prison, including $1 million for water and sewage improvements and $3 million for a new community center. Mrs. Powden, together with Springfield's two state representatives, say they hope the voters accept the proposal.
As for the Stellafane's convention's contribution to the town's economy, which could be lost if light from the prison lights up the heavens, Mrs. Powden said, "The tourism dollars are great, but I'd like to add to that what the state gives us. I have to believe there's a compromise possible with Stellafane.""
A new prison comes with the promise of 160 new jobs, most with a starting pay just under ten dollars an hour, but there is no way of saying how many Springfield residents would be employed there.
"They can't project how much of the money spent on building and servicing the prison will trickle down into the local economy," said Stephen Ellis, a 41-year-old lawyer who moved here from Philadelphia five years ago.
Standing next to Stellafane's 13-inch Schupmann Telescope, Ms. Arrien, 46, a filmmaker who lives in Putnam Valley, N.Y., said, "If the prison gets built, many people will stop coming here."
Mr. Ellis said he and his wife would put their house on the market "two days after the vote" if the prison proposal passed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stargazers at the Stellafane Convention near Springfield, Vt., train their sights skyward near a turret telescope named for Russell W. Porter of Springfield, a designer of the Hale Telescope at Mount Palomar, Calif. (Maryann V. Arrien)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MILKY WAY GALAXY (79%); 

COMPANY: STELLAFANE CONVENTION MILKY WAY (55%); STELLAFANE LATIN (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: STELLAFANE CONVENTION STELLAFANE LATIN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD (VT); VERMONT; UNITED STATES (97%); VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MILKY WAY GALAXY (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; REFERENDUMS; SPACE; STARS AND GALAXIES; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LIGHTING PRISONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MFG (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (77%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); REFERENDUMS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); LIGHT POLLUTION (72%); MACHINE TOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: HOWARD DEAN (56%); HOWARD M DEAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



604 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Looking Extremely Moderate

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 26

 BODY:
While other states debate gun-control laws, Connecticut is about to get a gun-seizure law, intended to disarm dangerous people before they fire. By promising to sign the measure, Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican, is providing one of the starkest illustrations yet of how far some G.O.P. officials are going in an effort to change their party's face.
Governor Rowland is part of a class of Republicans, personified most prominently by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who are challenging old images of the party by playing down ideological bugle calls and pursuing policies that will help win the votes of women and suburbanites. 
 Connecticut's gun bill, the first of its sort in the nation, would allow the police to get a warrant to confiscate the firearms of anyone who "poses a risk of imminent personal injury to himself or herself or to other individuals." The factors to be considered by a judge before issuing the warrant include threats, alcohol abuse and cruelty to animals.
Legal scholars say the bill may violate three or more amendments to the Constitution. Hunters in the state call it the "turn-in-your-neighbor law," arguing that it will leave them ripe for false accusations in custody fights or neighborhood disputes.
Mr. Rowland's signature on the bill will cement his status as one of the most moderate of the nation's prominent Republicans. This is a very different John Rowland from the one who was elected to Congress in 1984 on Ronald Reagan's coattails. Back then, Mr. Rowland goaded Democratic leaders into starting Congressional sessions with the Pledge of Allegiance and bragged in his official biography about his plan to "save $1 billion over three years by rooting out welfare fraud." Campaigning successfully for his first term as governor in 1994, he railed about the cable television and other "Club-Med-like amenities" at a new state prison.
Now, he says his priorities are "the three C's -- cities, children and civility," and his Web site heralds his record on issues like urban revitalization, children's health and environmental protection.
Mr. Rowland, who at 42 is the nation's youngest governor, said that supporting the gun bill was "a no-brainer" after April's shootings in Littleton, Colo., which killed a dozen high-school students. He acknowledged that "civil libertarians will be able to make some good arguments" against the bill, but said he trusted the police and courts to use discretion in applying it.
"I may not understand it or accept it, but the world is changing," Mr. Rowland said in an interview on Friday. "As society changes, laws have to change to protect citizens along the way. Sometimes you have to try new and different and creative ways to solve problems. You have to take some risks."
Other politicians may resist labels. Mr. Rowland, an early endorser of Governor Bush for the Presidency, proudly declares himself "a moderate, centrist, pragmatic, common-sense, compassionate conservative."
He plans to veto only one of the 307 bills sent to him by the Connecticut Legislature during the session that ended this month, even though Democrats control both chambers. Among the bills he has signed is a requirement that health insurers pay for contraception for women, which abortion opponents in Connecticut said was their biggest loss in a decade. When he was in Congress, Mr. Rowland opposed abortion, but he became a supporter of abortion rights before running for governor.
Mr. Rowland's malleability, which has led critics to brand him "the whatever governor," makes him look like a pioneer in a party where many of the up-and-comers are eager to have voters forget the bad old days of 1994, when Republicans were talking about cleaning out the government stables. Mr. Bush is soaring in opinion polls with his sunny talk on the presidential nomination trail of a Republicanism that is "generous of heart" and a nation where "the weak are valued."
Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma, the chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said in an interview on Friday that all but 5 or 6 of the nation's 31 G.O.P. governors were moderate conservatives. "We have to bring everyone together -- black, white, red and yellow -- to reach consensus and advance the ball," he said.
Those moderates include Mr. Rowland's next-door neighbors -- George E. Pataki of New York and Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey. Like Mr. Rowland, Mr. Pataki has proved politically multilingual, avoiding a revolt by party regulars even as he has reached out to independents and Democrats. Mrs. Whitman, nationally prominent for her moderate views on social issues, has had more trouble with conservatives. But she has been increasingly attentive to their concerns since her uncomfortably narrow re-election in 1997, most recently by supporting notification of a parent before a teen-age girl can get an abortion.
Brad Coker, the managing director of Mason-Dixon Polling and Research Inc., in Washington, pointed out that by "moving to the center, getting off ideology and talking about issues that people care about," the nation's Republican governors were copying the strategy that won the White House for President Clinton in 1992.
In contrast to the governors' pragmatism, however, the alpha Republicans in Washington still seem to be playing from old cue cards featuring rigid rhetoric and philosophical purity at the expense of public opinion. Mark D. Pfeifle, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, contends, "When the dust settles, they all have the same goals and in many cases the same outcomes."
As part of Mr. Rowland's new-look Republicanism, he decided long ago simply to ignore issues that can be red meat in his party, including school vouchers and single-sex marriage. He said he considered debates on those "no-win issues" to be a waste of time that would change nobody's mind. During this year's Gay Pride Month, for example, he refused to sign the proclamation that local organizers wanted, but did not prevent them from flying their rainbow-striped flag over the State Capitol.
Sometimes his attention span seems to be as short as that of the voters. This spring, he squeezed legislators to insure passage of financing for a stadium and convention center for downtown Hartford, as salve for the loss suffered by the city when the New England Patriots football team decided not to move here. But legislators never took up a plan he offered in a budget address in February for tax credits to help families pay for higher education, and he has not pushed it further.
Although moderation is very much of the moment, Governor Rowland's critics argue that his most recent stances amount to proof of what they had long suspected -- that his views have no fixed address.
"Ideology is not important to him, nor particularly are ideas," said State Senator Kevin B. Sullivan, the Senate's highest-ranking Democrat. "His role and his power and his position are, so he takes the path of least resistance."
The gun-seizure measure, which is part of a broader firearm-safety bill, is likely to win Mr. Rowland favorable publicity when he signs it in the coming week, but may prove to be a headache in the long run. Steven B. Duke, a Yale Law School professor who specializes in criminal law, said, "An anonymous caller could tell the police, 'Joe Blotz has a gun and is making weird noises,' and that would be enough for them to act."
Laurence H. Tribe of Harvard Law School also sees serious constitutional problems with the bill. "Encouraging a society of whispers and rumors," he said, "hardly seems conducive to a society where people feel safe and secure."
None of the criticism fazes Mr. Rowland, who is basking in Connecticut Republicans' speculation that his longtime support of Mr. Bush will win him a shot at the vice presidential nomination, or perhaps an eventual Cabinet post. (The Connecticut cognoscenti have settled, somehow, on Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.)
Governor Rowland was referring to the gun bill, but he could have been talking about his own stands, when he said serenely, "This is a product that can be refined along the way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland hopes to be known as a moderate Republican. (George Ruhe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES FIREARMS (91%); GUN CONTROL (91%); ASSET FORFEITURE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (67%); WELFARE FRAUD (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (52%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (52%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



605 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Shalala Plays Down Cost Of Clinton's Medicare Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, moved today to head off criticism of the cost of President Clinton's plan to help buy prescription drugs for older Americans, saying that the new Medicare benefits "will not be as generous as people think."
"This isn't about just adding some new lush benefit," Dr. Shalala said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "This is critical to health care." 
 More than a third of the 39 million Medicare beneficiaries have no insurance to cover prescription drugs. On Tuesday, Mr. Clinton will unveil a plan for the Government to offer subsidized drug coverage to all beneficiaries. The plan depends in its entirety on approval by Congress, but it is impossible to predict with any certainty what Congress will do.
Administration officials said the premium for drug coverage would start in the range of $20 to $25 a month, then climb gradually in subsequent years toward $45 a month. Under the plan, the Government would pay about half the cost of prescription drugs, up to a certain level to be specified by law, and beneficiaries would pay the rest.
As of noon today, an Administration official said, the maximum annual benefit -- the amount payable by the Government -- had not been decided. But like the premium, it could rise over time, the official said.
Half of Medicare beneficiaries without any drug coverage now spend more than $40 a month of their own money for prescriptions.
Comments by Mr. Clinton and his aides suggest that the Administration is open to a deal with Congress: Democrats would win Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, and Republicans would get some of the tax cuts they want.
John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, met last week with Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, where tax bills usually originate.
Aides to Mr. Archer said he tried to keep the meeting secret because he feared it would feed the suspicions of liberal House Democrats who worry that Mr. Clinton will cut a deal with Republicans in Congress.
Dr. Shalala said the cost of Medicare drug coverage would not "spin out of control," but she refused to say how it would be financed.
Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser, said the cost to taxpayers would be manageable. "The reason why it is going to cost very little is because the plan overall is going to include significant savings in the Medicare plan," he said on CNN's "Late Edition."
Administration officials said Mr. Clinton's proposal would save large amounts of money by extending provisions of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which cut Medicare payments to most health care providers.
That idea is sure to meet fierce opposition from doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and home health care agencies, which are lobbying Congress to restore money cut in 1997.
In a letter last week to Republican lawmakers, Representative Bill Thomas of California, one of the party's leading experts on health policy, suggested questions that should be raised about Mr. Clinton's plan. For example, Mr. Thomas asked: "Is it targeted to individuals that need coverage? Does it give a benefit to those who already have coverage, possibly jeopardizing the munificent benefits they already receive? Would the benefit be available to retired millionaires who do not need assistance?"
Under Mr. Clinton's plan, insurance for drug expenses would be offered to all Medicare beneficiaries, including those who now have such coverage from former employers. A lobbyist for a large labor union said: "A lot of employers may decide they're better off putting their people into the Medicare drug program. Employers could pick up drug costs that Medicare does not cover, and they might pay the premium for Medicare drug benefits too."
Edward A. Kaplan, vice president of the Segal Company, an employee benefits consulting concern in New York City, said, "Anything the Government does to pick up prescription drug expenses under Medicare could provide a windfall for private employers, unions and state and local governments that offer retiree health coverage."
If Medicare covers prescription drugs, Mr. Kaplan said, employers might curtail retiree health benefits or might try to control rapidly rising costs by giving retirees a lump sum of cash, which the retirees could use to buy private health insurance. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MEDICARE (93%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); AGING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; SHALALA, DONNA E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



606 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TO UNVEIL PLAN TO ALLOCATE BUDGET WINDFALL

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON with ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Seeking to capitalize on new projections showing that the Federal budget surplus will grow far bigger than anticipated, President Clinton plans to unveil sweeping new proposals on Monday to allocate the windfall among Social Security, Medicare and other spending and tax cut proposals, Democrats said today.
Mr. Clinton's plan is sure to intensify his long-running battle with Republicans in Congress over the nation's priorities as it enters a new era in which the two parties must divide up pots of money far larger than anything they could have imagined even a year or two ago. 
 In putting out a proposal on Monday, Mr. Clinton is trying to get a step ahead of the Republican leadership, which will have a new set of surplus estimates available from the Congressional Budget Office in the middle of the week.
Democrats said new projections by the White House's Office of Management and Budget showed that the total budget surplus would be $179 billion higher over the next 5 years, and $517 billion higher over 10 years, than its last estimates, in January. Both the portion of the surplus that comes from excess Social Security payroll taxes and the portion from general tax revenues and lower-than-expected spending are considerably higher than earlier projections, they said.
The White House wants to use much of the money on revised approaches to shoring up the two big entitlement programs, Social Security and Medicare, both of which will face serious financial problems in coming decades.
Under his new plan, Mr. Clinton will say that Social Security can be put on sound footing until 2053, nearly two decades beyond the point it will run into trouble if nothing is done. And he will call for Medicare to get enough new financing to keep it solvent until 2027, an improvement of about a dozen years beyond current predictions.
Democrats said that with so much extra money now on the table -- the new projections show about $1 trillion available over the next decade even without including excess Social Security revenues that have swelled surplus figures in recent years -- Mr. Clinton will open the door to a sizable tax cut.
Until now Mr. Clinton had insisted that he would agree to a tax cut only after Social Security's finances had been made stable for at least 75 years, the actuarial benchmark for the retirement system's solvency. His new approach implies that he would be willing to consider a tax cut even if Social Security's solvency is not guaranteed for that long.
Still, Democrats said Mr. Clinton intended to demand that Republicans accede to his approach to Social Security and Medicare before considering tax cuts or allowing any substantial increase in spending.
Republicans are already calling for a tax cut of $775 billion over the next decade, and the new surplus figures are certain to make them more determined to return as much money as possible to taxpayers.
But there is considerable pent-up demand for additional spending within both parties, for purposes as varied as the military, transportation, education, child care and health.
Mr. Clinton, however, will not call for a removal of the tight spending limits imposed on Congress by the bipartisan 1997 balanced budget agreement, Democrats said.
Mr. Clinton also wants his main tax-cut proposal, to provide incentives for retirement savings to low- and middle-income families, to get priority over Republican calls for tax-rate reductions, reduced capital gains taxes, cuts in the estate tax and other tax cuts at the top of the Republican wish list.
White House officials declined to provide details of the budget plan, which Mr. Clinton is scheduled to unveil early on Monday before leaving on a fund-raising trip. Mr. Clinton is scheduled to unveil a separate proposal on Tuesday for overhauling Medicare, the health insurance system for the elderly.
But people who had been briefed on the White House plan said Mr. Clinton would propose that starting in 2011, general tax revenues be diverted to Social Security to help shore up the system as the baby boom generation begins retiring in earnest.
So robust is the expected flow of revenue into the Treasury under the new White House proposals that by 2015 the Government will have paid off the entire $3 trillion in national debt held by the public, they said.
Mr. Clinton's new plan includes a revised version of a proposal that the two parties have been jockeying over in Congress for several months: a "lock box" to insure that the excess Social Security revenues are not spent, but used only to reduce the national debt or to insure the retirement system's long-term viability.
In his original budget proposal in January, Mr. Clinton proposed reserving 62 percent of the budget surplus over 15 years for Social Security, but in a way that would allow him to spend a portion of the Social Security surplus in the next few years. Both parties have rejected that approach, and although they differ on details, have basically endorsed setting aside every dollar of each year's Social Security surplus.
White House officials said their new plan would respond to the Congressional criticism, and would also include a provision that would link reducing the national debt to improving Social Security's long-term financial condition.
The Administration's original effort to do that in its January budget was built around a complex proposal under which the benefits of reducing the national debt would have been funneled to Social Security in the form of new Government bonds, an approach that Republicans rejected.
Administration officials said the new plan would try to reach the same end by different means.
"We are very hopeful that the new Presidential proposal, that new Social Security lock box, will be a way of bringing together both Democrats and Republicans," Gene Sperling, the director of the White House's National Economic Council, told CNN's "Late Edition" today.
In part because of Mr. Clinton's "Social Security first" strategy, the degree to which the two parties can agree on tax and spending priorities seems largely to depend on whether they can make enough progress on shoring up the retirement system to give them political cover for using the surplus for other purposes.
There is also some question whether either party -- especially the Democratic -- wants a comprehensive deal this year encompassing Social Security and Medicare, tax cuts and additional spending. Members of both parties see all of those as issues that can play well for them with their core constituencies on the campaign trail, so the grease of a fiscal windfall will still have to overcome the political incentive for gridlock.
Still, with a legacy-minded President and a Congress seeking to avoid the do-nothing label, anything is possible.
With Republican efforts to pass spending bills in danger because of the tight spending caps -- and with Mr. Clinton likely to veto the $775 billion, 10-year tax cut they have in mind -- party leaders have increasingly been banking on a budget windfall to help avoid gridlock. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said last week that he expected to promptly use any non-Social Security surpluses that becomes available.
But there are several different sets of ideas on what to do with any windfall. Congressional Republicans will say it underlines the good sense of tax cuts. Mr. Clinton indicated on Friday that he would use the money as a way to help deal with both Medicare and Social Security.
But House Democrats openly, and many Republicans quietly, see new good news on the budget as the only way out of a spending box they built in 1997. Then, they set tight caps on the amount of money Congress could spend on the military and on domestic programs other than Social Security, Medicare, welfare and other so-called entitlement programs.
And unlike agreeing on tax cuts or Medicare and Social Security legislation, passing annual spending bills is something Congress really has to do; it is Mr. Hastert's first priority. Right now the process is in a shambles, with only the smallest bills coming to the House floor and the Senate considering none of them at all.
But the underlying problem is that the limits agreed to in 1997, as some critics said at the time, are too low to maintain Federal programs at their current levels, making no additions except to adjust for inflation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; AGED; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



607 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Dinner for a Presidential Library, Contributions Welcome

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Quietly, at a French restaurant on the East Side of midtown Manhattan on Monday evening, President Clinton, the most effective fund-raiser ever to occupy the White House, plans to embark on the most ambitious fund-raising campaign of his long political career.
After having dinner with 40 executives, mostly from the fashion industry, the President is expected to talk about his vision for the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Library, a museum and public policy center on the banks of the Arkansas River in Little Rock that will be dedicated in part to the preservation of the 42d President's legacy. 
 But Mr. Clinton will not be likely to dwell on the library's price tag: $125 million.
Indeed, by law the President cannot solicit contributions for the cause. None of the guests at Monday night's dinner at La Grenouille have paid any money to attend, and the event was not listed as a library fund-raiser on Mr. Clinton's official schedule. Instead, the entry for the dinner simply said: "private event."
Though $125 million exceeds the total combined amount given to the Clinton-Gore campaigns in 1992 and 1996, the President's supporters say the task of raising that amount for the library is hardly as daunting as it seems.
Unburdened by the limits on individual contributions to Presidential candidates and legal defense funds, the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation can accept unlimited contributions for the library from individuals, corporations, foundations and even foreign governments. Each donation is tax-deductible.
Thus, for the first time, the President's most supportive, wealthiest friends will have no restrictions placed on their generosity, and supporters believe some will give millions of dollars to the foundation.
Supporters of Mr. Clinton said the foundation had already received generous pledges from several of Mr. Clinton's Hollywood friends, most notably the Dreamworks moguls Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, and Ronald W. Burkle, the California supermarket magnate. This fall, supporters said, a library dinner will be held in Hollywood, possibly at Mr. Geffen's house.
Neither Mr. Spielberg nor Mr. Geffen agreed to comment for this article. A spokesman for Mr. Burkle also declined to comment.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Clinton is taking an intense interest in the library. He ruminated for many months over the proper location. And, after many more months of reviewing dozens of blueprints, the President has still not chosen an architect, despite widespread speculation in the field. Mr. Clinton is taking his time because he "wants the design to be absolutely perfect," one friend said.
"I want it to be great, and I want it to be a great gift to my state," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference on Friday. "I've worked quite hard on it and thought a lot about it, and I think that -- I think the people at home will be quite excited about it when they see what we're going to do, and will be thrilled by it."
Despite the President's enthusiasism, the library project is sensitive enough at the White House that most of those involved in the planning and fund-raising for the library refused to talk about it.
Although these are not expressly political contributions, some critics of the system of campaign financing say it is improper to raise such large amounts of money while still in office.
Mr. Clinton would not be the first sitting President to raise money for a library, but the Administration is sensitive because it has been criticized for its fund-raising tactics in political campaigns, like allowing favored contributors to stay in the White House's Lincoln Bedroom.
Terence McAuliffe, a close friend of Mr. Clinton who raised $27 million for the Clinton-Gore campaign in just seven months in 1995, is leading the library foundation's fund-raising effort.
Besides the library fund, Mr. McAuliffe is helping Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, raise money to retire their nearly $10 million debt to their lawyers.
Mr. McAuliffe has also agreed to help Mrs. Clinton if she chooses to seek the New York Senate seat being vacated by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan next year.
Supporters of the library project said fund-raisers had spoken about the library foundation's needs with friends and admirers of the President, some of whom have already made general pledges to help.
But Skip Rutherford, a friend of the President who is the local coordinator for the library project in Little Rock, said there had not yet been any financial commitments from anyone.
Still, Mr. Rutherford and other supporters said they were confident of raising the $125 million needed for the library and its endowment. They brushed aside any suggestion that the President's impeachment last December would slow the flow of money to the project.
Mr. Clinton's library will sit on 17 acres on a site now strewn with weeds and aging warehouses near Little Rock's River Market. The site is within walking distance from the Old State House, where Mr. Clinton served as Governor and announced his intention to run for President.
There are 11 Presidential libraries in the United States. The first was for Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th President. The earliest President to have his own library is Rutherford B. Hayes, the 19th President, whose library was built in 1916 in Fremont, Ohio.
Mr. Clinton's planned library would be the most expensive ever built, followed by the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum in College Station, Tex., which cost $83 million and was dedicated in 1997.
Each Presidential library was built entirely with private donations, but nonpartisan groups have criticized Presidents who chose to raise money while still in office, as President Reagan did in the last two years of his second term for his library in Simi Valley, Calif.
"If a donor is giving millions of dollars to the President to enhance his immortality, and doing it while the chief executive is still in the Oval Office, the amount of power that donor has just acquired is off the charts," said Charles Lewis, the founder and executive director of the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit watchdog group.
Mr. Lewis said one of Mr. Clinton's most enduring legacies would be that he was a politician who was "not only adept at fund-raising, but had a cast-iron stomach for doing it."
"He's a little bit like the battery bunny," Mr. Lewis said. "He just keeps on raising money."
Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter and Bush did not begin raising money for their libraries until after they left office, but all four left the White House earlier than they had intended. Mr. Nixon struggled to raise money for his library, partly because his solicitors began seeking donations a decade after he resigned. One of his supporters said in 1990 that it was hard to get money from contributors who were "not basking in the light of a sitting President."
Ronald Reagan, the most recent two-term President, used the allure of his Presidency to raise millions for his library before he left office in January 1989. Mr. Reagan also began earlier than Mr. Clinton has begun. Mr. Clinton's supporters said they hoped to imitate the success that Mr. Reagan had in generating contributions while in office, though they worry privately that they should have started even earlier.
"As two-term Presidents, both President Clinton and President Reagan have that luxury to get a good start on their libraries," Mr. Rutherford said. "President Reagan had a series of events -- dinners, receptions -- where people discussed the library."
Mr. Rutherford said Mr. Clinton had spent a lot of time speaking with people about his hopes for the library. "Quite frankly, lots of people have just gone to Washington on a family vacation and see him or go by the White House to visit, and the library usually comes up," Mr. Rutherford said. "It's just on his mind."
The host of the private dinner in Manhattan on Monday night is Arnold Simon, chief executive of Aris Industries. Forty fashion industry leaders are expected to attend, including the designers Vera Wang and Nicole Miller, Mr. Simon said.
"I love the President," Mr. Simon said. "You very rarely run across politicians with a real heart. I just think he has done wonderful things for the country, and I've benefited from them personally. And this is my way to try to help."
Mr. Simon, who was the chairman of Designer Holdings, which made Calvin Klein jeans, said he hoped that the dinner would encourage his colleagues to contribute to the library.
Mr. Simon said he intended to call the dinner guests in the weeks to come and ask each of them to write a check payable to the Clinton library foundation.
"The President," Mr. Simon said, "has done enormous amounts for the country in respect to unemployment, the stock market and interest rates." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON, WILLIAM JEFFERSON, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON, WILLIAM JEFFERSON, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FUNDRAISING (91%); LIBRARIES (91%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (57%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VAN NATTA, DON JR BILL CLINTON (95%); DAVID GEFFEN (64%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (56%); RON BURKLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



608 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Allies Revising Assessment Of Damage to Serb Forces
In the two weeks since NATO forces arrived in Kosovo, alliance officials have had to scale back their initial estimates of the damage inflicted by the 78-day air campaign on the Yugoslav Army, which they concede remains a force capable of maintaining President Slobodan Milosevic's hold on power. A1
 
German forces in Prizren said they would impose a curfew at night to cut down on lawlessness, which continues throughout Kosovo in the form of slayings, arson and looting. A8 

Serbian authorities released 166 Kosovo Albanian men from two prisons in Serbia, in what one prison director called a gesture of good will. They were all detained around May 7 while trying to flee to Albania with their families. Aid agencies believe that the 166 are just a small portion of the total being held in Serbia. A8
 
Moving Toward Peace in Congo
Negotiations on ending 11 months of war in Congo received fresh impetus when military officials completed a draft cease-fire document at talks in Zambia. A4
 
Algerian Insurgency's Toll
The Government issued its first comprehensive toll since its seven-year conflict with Muslim guerrillas began, saying 100,000 people had died. It also approved a draft amnesty law for Islamic rebels, the first tangible move to try to end the violence. A6
 
Hints of Compromise in Ulster
David Trimble, the First Minister of the Northern Ireland Assembly, said the stalled peace effort in Ulster could be saved by a simple statement from Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, that the I.R.A. is committed to disarming by May 2000. He did not mention the position he has repeatedly expressed that the I.R.A. must start actual disarmament before Sinn Fein will be allowed to take ministerial posts in the Assembly. Some politicians and analysts said this was a sign that Mr. Trimble was getting ready to compromise. A9
 
Perils for Russia's Farms
A blisteringly hot summer and the reverberations from Russia's economic crisis have taken a devastating toll on the nation's crops, making it likely that Moscow will appeal for American food aid, according to Russian and American officials. A10
 
New Movement in Indonesia
Hundreds of nongovernmental organizations have begun to flex their muscles now that President Suharto is gone, pushing agendas that include human rights, environmental protection, workers' protection, legal aid and political freedoms, as well as rights for the poor. All these groups are part of a transformation of Indonesia that is not quite a revolution, but a realignment of the patterns of power, in which the people above now have to listen to what the people below are saying. A3
 
NATIONAL A12-15
 
Clinton to Reveal Spending Plan for Budget Surplus
President Clinton plans to unveil sweeping new proposals to allocate the budget surplus among Social Security, Medicare and other spending and tax cut proposals, Democrats said. The proposal, which may be unveiled today, is sure to renew and intensify his long-running battle with Republicans in Congress over the nation's priorities as it enters a new era in which the two parties must divide up pots of money far larger than anything they could have imagined even a year or two ago. A1
 
Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, moved to head off criticism of the cost of President Clinton's plan to help buy prescription drugs for older Americans, saying the new Medicare benefits "will not be as generous as people think." A13
 
The Clinton Presidential Library
President Clinton is to talk to about 40 business executives in Manhattan tonight about his vision for the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Library, a museum and public policy center on the banks of the Arkansas River in Little Rock. But Federal law will bar him from talking about the $125 million price tag. A15
 
Sorting Out Asbestos Law
Congress, responding to a plea from the Supreme Curt to devise a legislative solution to "the elephantine mass of asbestos cases," is preparing to begin debate this week on a measure that would overhaul the way the legal system resolves lawsuits brought by people harmed by the substance. A1
 
Warning on Visa Program
The Visa Waiver Pilot Program, which allows people carrying passports from any of 26 nations to visit the United States for up to 90 days without obtaining a visa, is helping criminals and terrorists and increasing illegal immigration, according to an internal investigation at the Department of Justice. A14
 
Anger Over China Spying Case
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican Presidential hopeful who is a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, condemned the Administration's handling of intelligence matters, particularly reports that China might have stolen nuclear secrets. A15
 
Blood Shortages Foreseen
Blood donations are dropping so low that serious, nationwide shortages could hit as early as next year, researchers for a blood bank association warned. A12
 
A Concert for Whales
The National Marine Fisheries Service allowed an unusual event to take place in the waters of northern Puget Sound on Saturday night: the City Cantabile Choir of Seattle, using an underwater speaker system, presented an eclectic repertory that included Monteverdi's Vespers, Afro-Brazilian songs and "When the Saints Go Marching In" to an audience of killer whales. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
High-Risk Sex Practices And H.I.V. Infection Decline
Gay men in New York City have significantly reduced their levels of risky sexual behavior, and the number of men infected with the AIDS virus has dropped sharply in the last 15 years, city health officials said in issuing findings from the largest survey ever of gay men's sexual health. The survey was completed by 7,650 homosexual and bisexual men. A1
 
The Gay and Lesbian Pride March included, for the first time in its 30 years, an active-duty firefighter in blue dress uniform, and the Fire Department was recognizing Fireflag, a gay firefighters' group. B1
 
Charges in Bronx Rapes
The Bronx District Attorney's office said Rayshawn Aikens, 26, had been charged with four counts of rape, two counts of attempted rape, and robbery, burglary and unlawful imprisonment. The attacks, with three of the victims age 12, occurred in the Fordham area and the South Bronx. B3
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
A Grand Slam Winner
Juli Inkster shot a 65 to capture the McDonald's L.P.G.A. championship by four strokes, becoming only the second woman, after Pat Bradley, to complete the modern career grand slam. Inkster also won the United States Open, the Nabisco Dinah Shore and the du Maurier Classic. D1
 
Playoff Decides Buick Classic
Duffy Waldorf defeated Dennis Paulson on the first hole of a playoff to win the Buick Classic. D1
 
U.S. Soccer Team Advances
The United States beat North Korea, 3-0, in the final match of group play in the Women's World Cup. D1
 
New U.S. Pole Vault Record
Jeff Hartwig set an American pole vault record of 19 feet 9 inches, and Maurice Greene and Marion Jones won their 200-meters finals at the United States Track and Field Championships. D7
 
OBITUARIES B7-8
 
George Papadopoulos
The former Greek army colonel who led a bloodless military coup d'etat in 1967 that overthrew the parliamentary Government was 80. Ousted in 1973, he was convicted of treason and sentenced to death, which was later reduced to life in prison. B8
 
Marion Motley
One of the N.F.L.'s first black players of the modern era and one of its best fullbacks ever, he was 79. A star with the Cleveland Browns from 1946 to 1953, he was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. B7
 
Peter Abeles
A Hungarian who fled to Australia after World War II and as a transport executive became one of his adopted country's most powerful business leaders, he was 75. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Net Directory Effort Delayed By Political Wrangling
The protracted effort to introduce competition into the lucrative business of registering Internet addresses has been delayed for at least three weeks because of escalating tensions among the Clinton Administration, its handpicked successor for running the global network and the Government contractor that has had a monopoly on the business. C1
 
Milken Helps Finance Libel Suit
Lowell Milken, the brother of Michael R. Milken, is quietly financing a friend's libel suit against James B. Stewart, the author of "Den of Thieves" and its publisher, Simon & Schuster. The book, about the insider-trading scandals of the 1980's, presented critical portrayals of both Milkens but made only a brief mention of the plaintiff, a former lawyer for Lowell Milken. C1
 
Ripple Effects of Fraud Case
Insurance experts say the effects of a giant insurance fraud involving a Connecticut money manager are reverberating throughout the industry and that the first two corporate casualties, Capital Re of New York and Settlers Life of Bristol, Va., will probably not be the last. C1
 
Frontier to Weigh Qwest Offer
The board of Frontier, the fifth-largest long-distance phone company in the nation, is to meet today to discuss an unsolicited bid made by Qwest Communications International, a bid that is more complex than it may seem. C2
 
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were trading higher in Tokyo today. At midday, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 176.11 points, or 1.01 percent, at 17,612.63. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Impartial justice; realistic rules on computer exports; a memorable run; Floyd Norris on lotteries.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E7
 
TV Listings E8
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather B6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ALBANIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ZAMBIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ALBANIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ZAMBIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGAL AID (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CURFEW (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ARSON (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); RELIGION (66%); AMNESTY (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



609 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE TOLL;
Damage to Serb Military Less Than Expected

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: DJAKOVICA, Kosovo, June 27

 BODY:
NATO warplanes demolished the Yugoslav Army's World War II-era base here. In what was left of the motor pool, 18 military vehicles, including one armored personnel carrier, were scattered today in charred, twisted heaps.
Up close, however, it was clear that most of the destroyed vehicles were old wrecks, many already up on blocks and gathered there by the Serbs for repairs or junking. NATO's warplanes had not destroyed Yugoslavia's front-line fighting vehicles, but rather a junkyard. 
 In Djakovica and all across Kosovo, the devastating results of NATO's 78 days of bombing are obvious, from blown-out military barracks to exploded fuel tanks. What is less clear is the damage done to the Yugoslav Army itself, particularly the tanks, other armored fighting vehicles and artillery batteries.
In the two weeks since NATO forces arrived in Kosovo, alliance officials have scaled back their initial estimates of the damage inflicted on the Yugoslav Army and the special police, which they concede remain capable of maintaining President Slobodan Milosevic's hold on power.
While NATO and Pentagon officials stand by their claims to have significantly damaged those forces, they acknowledge that the units that withdrew from Kosovo a week ago were clearly not as hobbled as they had believed.
And those forces, they say, could be used by Mr. Milosevic again, at least to squelch domestic disturbances in Serbia, and at most to either foment or face down a separatist threat from Yugoslavia's lesser republic, Montenegro.
"It's exaggerated," a former senior allied official, who spoke to top European leaders in recent days, said of NATO's damage estimates. "NATO hit a lot of dummy and deception targets. It's an old Soviet ploy. Officials in Europe are very subdued. No one's pounding their chest over this."
Even in Junik and the villages around Mount Pastrik in southern Kosovo, where allied bombers staged intense attacks on Yugoslav forces that had massed against the Kosovo Liberation Army in the last weeks of the air war, there are few signs of the scorched carcasses of tanks or other military equipment NATO officials had expected to find.
"Nothing is here," Lieut. Col. Dietmar Jeserick, a spokesman for the German peacekeeping troops based in Prizren, said today.
"We found positions," the colonel said. "We found bomb damage in those positions, but we didn't find any vehicles or tanks."
While some vehicles were removed from Kosovo by Serbian forces to break down for spare parts, NATO officials themselves acknowledge that fewer pieces of military hardware were destroyed than the alliance had first estimated.
For instance, NATO's Supreme Commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, said last week that the alliance had destroyed 110 of the roughly 300 tanks the Yugoslav Army had poured into Kosovo. But that number was smaller than the 150 tanks NATO believed that it had destroyed in the waning days of the war, a senior NATO official said.
General Clark and other NATO and Pentagon officials emphasize, however, that NATO's bombing ultimately accomplished its mission, which was to force Mr. Milosevic to end his brutal campaign against Kosovo's ethnic Albanians and turn the province over to a NATO-led peacekeeping force.
"From our perspective, we're satisfied we destroyed enough stuff to get him to say uncle," Capt. Stephan R. Pietropaoli of the Navy, the spokesman for the Pentagon's Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a telephone interview.
But whether it was indeed the pain inflicted on his military that formed Mr. Milosevic's prime motivation for ending the standoff over Kosovo is an open question.
A senior NATO official said many leaders at NATO believed that it was not the damage to the Yugoslav forces that finally forced Mr. Milosevic to relent, though the alliance intercepted communications from Serbian commanders saying their troops were suffering heavy losses around Mount Pastrik.
Instead, the official said, Mr. Milosevic relented when Russia, long a supporter, came to accept NATO's conditions and when the consensus for considering a ground campaign to oust his forces from Kosovo appeared to grow. Other factors were at work, too, including the damage the NATO attacks were causing to Yugoslavia's civilian infrastructure and economy as a whole.
Such an assessment may gain greater currency as NATO takes full stock of the size of the Yugoslav Army that completed its withdrawal from Kosovo a week ago -- tired and battered, to be sure, but defiant, orderly and clearly not as weak as NATO officials believed.
As the Serbs pulled out over 11 days, NATO commanders counted 220 tanks, 300 armored personnel carriers and 308 artillery batteries, along with hundreds of other vehicles and all manner of military equipment loaded on trucks, according to NATO officials here and in Brussels.
There were also 47,000 soldiers and policemen who left the province, several thousand more than intelligence reports showed during the height of Mr. Milosevic's campaign. The officials attributed the discrepancy to paramilitary units, whose movements were harder to track. But the large numbers appeared to undercut NATO's claims to have killed 5,000 to 10,000 troops.
Mr. Milosevic's Government, eager to obscure the fact that it lost a province considered to be Serbia's cultural, religious and historical birthplace, has used state-run television to show troops returning triumphantly from Kosovo. The Government also claimed that only 576 soldiers and policemen had been killed.
In remarks to reporters while visiting Kosovo last week, General Clark dismissed questions about the extent of the bomb damage and ridiculed Mr. Milosevic's claims as absurd. "Just because the air campaign stopped doesn't mean the Serb propaganda campaign stopped," he said.
But he added that a complete picture would not be known until NATO sends analysts here in the coming weeks to assess the air strikes.
The Pentagon has announced that the Deputy Secretary of Defense, John J. Hamre, and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph W. Ralston, would lead a thorough review of the war, including the damage done to the Yugoslav Army.
In war, initial assessments of damage are often overblown; the oratory almost always is. After the Persian Gulf war ended in 1991, the Pentagon learned that the American-led coalition had not hurt the Iraqi Army nearly as much as first thought. The bombing and ground invasion left it badly beaten, but still strong enough to put down rebellions in northern and southern Iraq and threaten Kuwait again only three years later.
In Kosovo, there are several explanations for the scaling back the damage assessments now, officials said. Careful reviews of cockpit video footage showed that pilots in some cases mistakenly believed that they had destroyed a target. They also showed that some of the targets hit were not tanks or artillery batteries, but rather clever decoys made by the Serbs to fool pilots flying three or four miles up in the sky.
Outside its armed forces, however, Yugoslavia as a whole clearly suffered enormous damage, particularly to its roads, bridges and industry after 11 weeks of increasingly intense bombing.
According to a Pentagon assessment compiled after Mr. Milosevic agreed to NATO's demands, allied warplanes destroyed Yugoslavia's oil-refining ability, nearly half of its military fuel storage installations and many of its factories producing military equipment and ammunition. The alliance also reported eviscerating Yugoslavia's air force of its most sohpisticated jets and inflicting some heavy damage on Yugoslav ground forces in Kosovo.
Maj. Gen. Charles Wald, a senior analyst on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said 60 percent of the barracks and other installations of Yugoslavia's Third Army in Kosovo had been either damaged or destroyed. Not a single building at the army base here in Djakovica was habitable, and many were leveled entirely.
But it is also clear crisscrossing the scenes of the heaviest attacks that the Serbs took advantage of the restraints that kept allied pilots at high altitudes and under orders to avoid civilian casualties. Up and down western Kosovo, there are revetments where Serbian tanks and artillery pieces hunkered down, well hidden, particularly at the foot of Mount Pastrik.
There are also scores of decoys. Some of them involve older vehicles fashioned to look like tanks. Others are comical. A few miles west of Pristina, there is still a "bridge" of logs and black tarp 100 yards from the main road. On either end were two "tanks" made of wood and plastic sheeting, with long tubes protruding toward the sky.
On the ground, the decoys would fool no one, and NATO officials said pilots had quickly learned to distinguish them, but a fake bridge near Djakovica took a missile right through its center span. At least one tank rests in a charred heap on a hill at a military base near Urosevac, and local Albanians said several remained in the hills above Junik, an area inaccessible because of land mines.
A bigger mystery is what happened to the tanks and other heavy equipment NATO did destroy. The senior NATO official said the retreating Serbs had taken a lot of damaged tanks with them, ferrying them back on flatbed trucks to use for spare parts.
"They took out every last scrap they could," he said, "so when they get back to Yugoslavia, they can cannibalize bits and pieces to put things back together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE RUINS OF A BASE -- In Djakovica, Kosovo, Hajdar Kameri, an ethnic Albanian, chopped wood for his home yesterday at a former Yugoslav Army base that was destroyed by NATO's air attacks. At left, a truck and other military vehciles at the base were also destroyed, but many of the vehicles appear to have been already out of commission for repairs or destined for junking. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (69%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



610 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Point, Counterpoint in the Microsoft Trial

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The last of 26 witnesses stepped from the stand last week in the Microsoft antitrust trial. They were the human voices in a case brimming with other evidence -- videotapes and transcripts from hundreds of people, and thousands of E-mail and other documents running to more than two million pages.
The Justice Department and 19 states suing Microsoft say that their witnesses have shown the big software maker to be an overreaching monopolist, wielding its market power to thwart competition. Microsoft, the Government says, prodded industry partners and rivals to favor its products over competing software. The Government adds that the company bundled its Internet browser to its industry-standard Windows operating system and gave the browser away as part of a predatory scheme that unfairly hurt rivals, posing a long-term threat to consumer welfare. 
 Microsoft says its witnesses have shown that the company is a tough but legal competitor. Its business activities, Microsoft says, have fostered innovation and spurred growth in the computer industry, to the benefit of the economy and consumers. Where the Government alleges illegal arm-twisting, Microsoft sees hard bargaining and commonplace business deals. Microsoft says it put browser technology into Windows to improve its flagship product, a user convenience that should not be deemed an antitrust violation.
 The two sides have held occasional settlement talks dating back to May 1998, just before the suit was filed. They may yet settle. But if not, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson will rule, possibly by the end of the year, based largely on his reading of the witness testimony. Below are summaries of what each said. STEVE LOHR
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Government Witnesses -- James L. Barksdale; William H. Harris; Garry Norris; David J. Farber. Microsoft Witnesses -- Paul Maritz; James Allchin; Richard L. Schmalensee; Gordon E. Eubanks
 
Chart:
 
ON USE OF MARKET POWER: Government Witnesses
 
James L. Barksdale; President, Netscape
Said Microsoft offered to divide the browser market; when Netscape refused, Microsoft withheld technology and struck exclusionary deals with PC makers and Internet service providers to hobble Netscape.
 
David M. Colburn; Senior Vice President, America Online
Said Microsoft made his company an offer it could not refuse: a featured place on the Windows desktop -- the most valuable real estate in cyberspace -- in return for making Microsoft's browser the default choice for its millions of subscribers.
 
Avadis Tevanian; Senior Vice President, Apple Computer
Said Microsoft tried to get Apple to stop distributing its Quicktime multimedia software. He also said Microsoft threatened to stop developing productivity software for the Macintosh unless Apple favored Microsoft's browser.
 
Steven McGeady; Vice President, Intel
Said Microsoft threatened to strongly support Intel's rivals unless the chip maker's software arm stopped developing multimedia and Internet software.
 
James A. Gosling; Vice President, Sun Microsystems
Said Microsoft tried to subvert the technology threat posed by Java, an Internet programming language, by co-opting it. Sun, he said, felt that "when Microsoft was holding out its hand, there was a knife in that hand."
 
William H. Harris; President, Intuit
Warned that Microsoft's market power could enable it to gain control over "major areas" of Internet commerce. He said that to obtain prime placement on the Windows desktop for its on-line personal finance software, Intuit agreed to bundle Microsoft's browser and not Netscape's.
 
John Soyring; Software Executive, I.B.M.
Explained how difficult it was for his company's OS/2 operating system to make headway against Windows because of the "applications barrier to entry." To make a word processing program for OS/2, one would have to "re-create much of the application from scratch."
 
Garry Norris; Executive, I.B.M.
Said Microsoft repeatedly tried to get I.B.M.'s PC business to favor Microsoft software over rival products. After I.B.M. refused, it had to pay a higher price for Windows than its leading peers in the PC industry.
 
ON USE OF MARKET POWER: Microsoft Witnesses
 
Daniel Rosen; General Manager, Microsoft
Called the Government charge that Microsoft tried to persuade Netscape to divide up the browser market "either fabrications or the products of a fundamental misunderstanding."
 
Brad Chase; Vice President, Microsoft
Said his company's deal with America Online did not require its subscribers to choose Microsoft's browser. He also testified that America Online's recent purchase of Netscape created a new and potent competitor to Microsoft.
 
Eric Engstrom; General Manager, Microsoft
Said his company did try to persuade Apple to use Microsoft's technology. But he said this was an effort at technological cooperation and not an attempt to hinder competition or divide markets.
 
Paul Maritz; Group Vice President, Microsoft
Said Intel pulled back from its multimedia software efforts because the software was designed for a previous version of Windows.
 
Robert Muglia; Senior Vice President, Microsoft
Said his company developed its own implementation of Java not to "pollute" Sun Microsystems' Internet programming language but to enable programs written in Java to run faster and better on Windows.
 
Cameron Myhrvold; Vice President, Microsoft
Denied that on-line services had to favor Microsoft's browser to be included in a featured place on Windows.
 
William Poole; Senior Director, Microsoft
Said its contracts with companies doing business on the Internet, requiring them to promote Microsoft's browser, were "routine cross-licensing agreements."
 
Joachim Kempin; Vice President, Microsoft
Said the Government claim that his company could dictate terms to the manufacturers "totally ignores the business reality" that they are "our valued partners."
 
John T. Rose; Senior Vice President, Compaq Computer
Characterized Compaq's disputes with Microsoft more as sparring between comparative equals than as his company bending submissively to Microsoft's will.
 
ON INTEGRATING THE BROWSER: Government Witnesses
 
Glenn E. Weadock; Consultant
Surveyed 13 large corporations that said they did not regard the browser as part of the operating system -- as Microsoft contended -- and many found adapting their software to Windows with a bundled browser to be a costly inconvenience.
 
David J. Farber; Computer Scientist, University of Pennsylvania
Said software was "infinitely malleable" and that there was no technical efficiency from Microsoft's decision to fold its Internet browser into Windows.
 
Edward W. Felten; Computer Scientist, Princeton University
Wrote a program that he said stripped the browser out of Windows. The technical experiment was intended to support the allegation that Windows and the browser are separate programs and not one, as Microsoft asserts.
 
ON INTEGRATING THE BROWSER: Microsoft Witnesses
 
Michael Devlin; Independent Software Developer
Said Microsoft's decision to include browser technology in Windows made it far easier to write programs that take advantage of Internet functions.
 
James Allchin; Senior Vice President, Microsoft
Said his company's decision to fold its browser into the Windows operating system and give the browser away free was a straightforward product design decision that benefited consumers.
 
ON COMPETITION: Government Witnesses
 
Franklin M. Fisher; Economist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Described Microsoft's entire pattern of behavior in the Internet software business as "predatory" -- its pricing, product bundling and contracts. He said Microsoft's behavior stifled competition and innovation. And while he conceded there was little evidence of harm to consumers to date, he said Microsoft's tactics posed a substantial threat of harm.
 
Frederick R. Warren-Boulton; Economist
Said the price Microsoft charges for Windows was "significantly" higher than it would be if the company faced competition, and that its Windows price had been rising in recent years as other components of PC's had generally declined.
 
ON COMPETITION: Microsoft Witnesses
 
Richard L. Schmalensee; Economist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Said that Microsoft faced many competitive threats, ranging from the Linux operating system to Web software. He said the price of Windows was low because of the ever-present challenge to Microsoft's leadership in the software industry. Microsoft, he added, is not a monopoly and its actions in the Internet software market were pro-competitive.
 
Gordon E. Eubanks; President, Oblix
Described the software business as an arena of fast and fluid change where today's market leader is tomorrow's also-ran. The industry does tend toward "natural monopolies" based on technology standards like Windows, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); WITNESSES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); INTERNET BROWSERS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BARKSDALE, JAMES L; COLBURN, DAVID M; TEVANIAN, AVADIS JR; MCGEADY, STEVEN; GOSLING, JAMES A (DR); HARRIS, WILLIAM H; SOYRING, JOHN; NORRIS, GARRY; WEADOCK, GLENN E; FARBER, DAVID J; FELTEN, EDWARD W (DR); FISHER, FRANKLIN M; WARREN-BOULTON, FREDERICK R; ROSEN, DANIEL; CHASE, BRAD; ENGSTROM, ERIC; MARITZ, PAUL; MUGLIA, ROBERT; ROSE, JOHN T; FELTEN, EDWARD W (DR); MYHRVOLD, CAMERON; POOLE, WILLIAM; KEMPIN, JOACHIM; ROSE, JOHN T; DEVLIN, MICHAEL; ALLCHIN, JAMES; SCHMALENSEE, RICHARD L (DEAN); EUBANKS, GORDON E; LOHR, STEVE JOHN ROSE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



611 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 2;Column 5;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Brazilians Take to the Web With Uncommon Speed

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
Pierre Schurmann, one of Brazil's Internet barons, did not know things would develop so fast.
Three years ago, Mr. Schurmann, 30, founded Zeek, a popular search engine. Earlier this year, he sold Zeek to the Star Media Network, a company that was formed to seek out Internet opportunities in Latin America, and became director of new business development in Brazil. Then Star Media went public with a stock offering on Nasdaq. 
 "The speed of it all is amazing," Mr. Schurmann said in an interview. "I'm not sure when the 18-hour days are going to let up."
They will probably continue for some time because Star Media is facing competition from companies including Yahoo Inc., Microsoft, America Online, Psinet and Telefonica S.A. -- that are jumping into Brazil's portal war.
The growing competition in Brazil among portals, the Web pages people often use for information and links to other sites, may be a preview of how large Internet companies will spread in other parts of the non-English-speaking world.
"This is perhaps the most competitive portal market in the world at this time," said Osvaldo Barbosa de Oliveira, the head of Microsoft's on-line operations in Brazil. Mr. Oliveira cited the entry this year of the three largest portals, America Online, Yahoo and Microsoft, plus competition from companies that provide local-language content. In addition, Telefonica of Spain is entering the battle, as well as the Globo organization, Brazil's largest media group.
Microsoft's MSN was the first large foreign portal to establish operations in Brazil, reaching deals with 19 Brazilian content providers. Yahoo quickly followed with its own Portuguese-language portal, opening an office in Sao Paulo this month, while America Online, whose partner in Latin America is the Cisneros Group of Venezuela, is expected to start operations this week.
Making Brazil a priority is easy to understand. With a single currency, set of borders and regulatory framework for nearly 165 million people, this country is an easier target for expansion than the many Spanish-speaking countries stretching from Mexico to Argentina. "Brazil is another animal altogether because you get a huge market with a common culture in one swoop," said Laura d'Oliveira, the president of the Sky3 in Hollywood, Fla., which specializes in making corporate Web sites more profitable through on-line marketing in Latin America.
The number of people using the Internet in Brazil grew 130 percent last year, making it Latin America's most wired nation, accounting for half of the region's six million people on the Web, according to the International Data Corporation. And despite a weak economy and big gaps between rich and poor, industry experts expect the number of Internet users in Brazil to grow 60 to 100 percent over the next three years.
Those users pay rates for Internet access that are comparable to those in the United States. The top two providers charge about $20 and $12 a month, respectively, for unlimited access. Others charge a fee for a certain amount of time and then more for each extra hour. For instance, IBM Brazil charges $23 a month for 30 hours of access and $1.50 for each additional hour.
Much of the growth in Internet use has taken place through the efforts and innovation of local companies like Universo Online, Brazil's largest service provider and portal, with 400,000 subscribers. Universo Online, which is owned by two large media concerns, Grupo Folha and Grupo Abril, is known for imaginative strategies like using live on-line ads to sell cars two years ago, when such practices were rare anywhere.
Although Caio Tulio Costa, the managing director of Universo Online, declined to comment on speculation that the company had been in takeover talks with a large portal company starting operations in Brazil, he acknowledged that Universo Online was close to selling a 10 percent stake to a new partner. And the company has begun its own buying spree, with the purchase last week of Miner Technology, a company in central Brazil that creates Web sites.
While newcomers learn to compete with entrenched locals, the portal war is taking place amid two bigger transformations. The first is the invigoration of Brazil's telecommunications system, a change that occurred after the nation's telephone monopoly was privatized and opened to competition in 1998. That has increased telephone and Internet access nationwide, something is expected to continue.
The second is the consolidation among Internet service providers, or I.S.P.'s, a trend underlined by the recent purchase of two leading providers by Psinet of Herndon, Va., catapulting Psinet into the ranks of the country's five largest.
"By acquiring I.S.P.'s in Brazil, we're tapping into a market for E-commerce that should grow by 75 to 100 percent over the next couple of years," said Philippe Kuperman, head of Psinet's Latin American activities. Though companies like Yahoo are largely in search of advertising revenue, Psinet hopes to make money by providing specific services to the corporate market.
In a similar, yet wider-reaching transaction, Telefonica bought a controlling stake last week in Nutec, Brazil's second-largest service provider and portal. Telefonica, already the biggest telephone company in Brazil after gobbling up many parts of the former state monopoly, bought Nutec to pursue its goal of being the largest portal in the Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking world. Local news organizations speculated that Telefonica paid $500 million for Nutec, although people close to the transaction said its value was considerably less.
Nobody is quite sure when, or how, the dust will settle as the competition among portals gears up and Internet use continues to climb.
"In the U.S. it's hard to find a friend who's not on the Internet, while in Brazil I know many people who aren't connected," said Gabriel Bitran, a Brazilian who is deputy dean at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management and an expert on electronic commerce. "I don't think poverty should be that much of an obstacle as the price of PC's falls." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the growing competition among Web portals in Brazil misspelled the given name of the president of Sky3, an on-line marketing company in Latin America. She is Louana d'Oliveira, not Laura.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); TEF (NYSE) (84%); TEF (MCE) (84%); TEF (BIT) (84%); TDE (LSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); GBO (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TELEFONICA SA (84%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (60%); AOL INC (56%); GLOBO PLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: BRAZIL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



612 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Dinner for a Presidential Library, Contributions Welcome

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Quietly, at a French restaurant on the East Side of midtown Manhattan on Monday evening, President Clinton, the most effective fund-raiser ever to occupy the White House, plans to embark on the most ambitious fund-raising campaign of his long political career.
After having dinner with 40 executives, mostly from the fashion industry, the President is expected to talk about his vision for the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Library, a museum and public policy center on the banks of the Arkansas River in Little Rock that will be dedicated in part to the preservation of the 42d President's legacy. 
 But Mr. Clinton will not be likely to dwell on the library's price tag: $125 million.
Indeed, by law the President cannot solicit contributions for the cause. None of the guests at Monday night's dinner at La Grenouille have paid any money to attend, and the event was not listed as a library fund-raiser on Mr. Clinton's official schedule. Instead, the entry for the dinner simply said: "private event."
Though $125 million exceeds the total combined amount given to the Clinton-Gore campaigns in 1992 and 1996, the President's supporters say the task of raising that amount for the library is hardly as daunting as it seems.
Unburdened by the limits on individual contributions to Presidential candidates and legal defense funds, the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation can accept unlimited contributions for the library from individuals, corporations, foundations and even foreign governments. Each donation is tax-deductible.
Thus, for the first time, the President's most supportive, wealthiest friends will have no restrictions placed on their generosity, and supporters believe some will give millions of dollars to the foundation.
Supporters of Mr. Clinton said the foundation had already received generous pledges from several of Mr. Clinton's Hollywood friends, most notably the Dreamworks moguls Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, and Ronald W. Burkle, the California supermarket magnate. This fall, supporters said, a library dinner will be held in Hollywood, possibly at Mr. Geffen's house.
Neither Mr. Spielberg nor Mr. Geffen agreed to comment for this article. A spokesman for Mr. Burkle also declined to comment.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Clinton is taking an intense interest in the library. He ruminated for many months over the proper location. And, after many more months of reviewing dozens of blueprints, the President has still not chosen an architect, despite widespread speculation in the field. Mr. Clinton is taking his time because he "wants the design to be absolutely perfect," one friend said.
"I want it to be great, and I want it to be a great gift to my state," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference on Friday. "I've worked quite hard on it and thought a lot about it, and I think that -- I think the people at home will be quite excited about it when they see what we're going to do, and will be thrilled by it."
Despite the President's enthusiasism, the library project is sensitive enough at the White House that most of those involved in the planning and fund-raising for the library refused to talk about it.
Although these are not expressly political contributions, some critics of the system of campaign financing say it is improper to raise such large amounts of money while still in office.
Mr. Clinton would not be the first sitting President to raise money for a library, but the Administration is sensitive because it has been criticized for its fund-raising tactics in political campaigns, like allowing favored contributors to stay in the White House's Lincoln Bedroom.
Terence McAuliffe, a close friend of Mr. Clinton who raised $27 million for the Clinton-Gore campaign in just seven months in 1995, is leading the library foundation's fund-raising effort.
Besides the library fund, Mr. McAuliffe is helping Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, raise money to retire their nearly $10 million debt to their lawyers.
Mr. McAuliffe has also agreed to help Mrs. Clinton if she chooses to seek the New York Senate seat being vacated by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan next year.
Supporters of the library project said fund-raisers had spoken about the library foundation's needs with friends and admirers of the President, some of whom have already made general pledges to help.
But Skip Rutherford, a friend of the President who is the local coordinator for the library project in Little Rock, said there had not yet been any financial commitments from anyone.
Still, Mr. Rutherford and other supporters said they were confident of raising the $125 million needed for the library and its endowment. They brushed aside any suggestion that the President's impeachment last December would slow the flow of money to the project.
Mr. Clinton's library will sit on 17 acres on a site now strewn with weeds and aging warehouses near Little Rock's River Market. The site is within walking distance from the Old State House, where Mr. Clinton served as Governor and announced his intention to run for President.
There are 11 Presidential libraries in the United States. The first was for Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th President. The earliest President to have his own library is Rutherford B. Hayes, the 19th President, whose library was built in 1916 in Fremont, Ohio.
Mr. Clinton's planned library would be the most expensive ever built, followed by the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum in College Station, Tex., which cost $83 million and was dedicated in 1997.
Each Presidential library was built entirely with private donations, but nonpartisan groups have criticized Presidents who chose to raise money while still in office, as President Reagan did in the last two years of his second term for his library in Simi Valley, Calif.
"If a donor is giving millions of dollars to the President to enhance his immortality, and doing it while the chief executive is still in the Oval Office, the amount of power that donor has just acquired is off the charts," said Charles Lewis, the founder and executive director of the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit watchdog group.
Mr. Lewis said one of Mr. Clinton's most enduring legacies would be that he was a politician who was "not only adept at fund-raising, but had a cast-iron stomach for doing it."
"He's a little bit like the battery bunny," Mr. Lewis said. "He just keeps on raising money."
Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter and Bush did not begin raising money for their libraries until after they left office, but all four left the White House earlier than they had intended. Mr. Nixon struggled to raise money for his library, partly because his solicitors began seeking donations a decade after he resigned. One of his supporters said in 1990 that it was hard to get money from contributors who were "not basking in the light of a sitting President."
Ronald Reagan, the most recent two-term President, used the allure of his Presidency to raise millions for his library before he left office in January 1989. Mr. Reagan also began earlier than Mr. Clinton has begun. Mr. Clinton's supporters said they hoped to imitate the success that Mr. Reagan had in generating contributions while in office, though they worry privately that they should have started even earlier.
"As two-term Presidents, both President Clinton and President Reagan have that luxury to get a good start on their libraries," Mr. Rutherford said. "President Reagan had a series of events -- dinners, receptions -- where people discussed the library."
Mr. Rutherford said Mr. Clinton had spent a lot of time speaking with people about his hopes for the library. "Quite frankly, lots of people have just gone to Washington on a family vacation and see him or go by the White House to visit, and the library usually comes up," Mr. Rutherford said. "It's just on his mind."
The host of the private dinner in Manhattan on Monday night is Arnold Simon, chief executive of Aris Industries. Forty fashion industry leaders are expected to attend, including the designers Vera Wang and Nicole Miller, Mr. Simon said.
"I love the President," Mr. Simon said. "You very rarely run across politicians with a real heart. I just think he has done wonderful things for the country, and I've benefited from them personally. And this is my way to try to help."
Mr. Simon, who was the chairman of Designer Holdings, which made Calvin Klein jeans, said he hoped that the dinner would encourage his colleagues to contribute to the library.
Mr. Simon said he intended to call the dinner guests in the weeks to come and ask each of them to write a check payable to the Clinton library foundation.
"The President," Mr. Simon said, "has done enormous amounts for the country in respect to unemployment, the stock market and interest rates." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 28 about the Presidential Library planned for Bill Clinton referred incorrectly to the Old State House in Little Rock. It was converted into a museum in 1951 and was not in use as state offices during Mr. Clinton's terms as Governor of Arkansas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON, WILLIAM JEFFERSON, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON, WILLIAM JEFFERSON, PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FUNDRAISING (91%); LIBRARIES (91%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (57%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VAN NATTA, DON JR BILL CLINTON (95%); DAVID GEFFEN (64%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (56%); RON BURKLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999



613 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 4; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Young People Open to H.I.V. Testing

BYLINE: By ALISA TANG 

 BODY:
Jennifer Jako once had a "not me" attitude about AIDS.
"I really was an unlikely candidate for this disease," Ms. Jako, an AIDS educator and documentary film producer, said in a panel discussion in New York last week. "I didn't think this would happen to me." 
 Ms. Jako, who is from Lake Oswego, a suburb of Portland, Ore., tested positive for H.I.V. eight years ago, when she was 18.
Her youth was typical of many people testing positive: 51 percent of new H.I.V. infections in the United States are among people under 25, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says. Yet, the agency says, only a quarter of sexually active teen-agers have been tested.
The panel discussion was held to announce a study by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, which explored the attitudes toward H.I.V. testing among 73 higher-risk teen-agers, defined as sexually active and economically or socially marginalized youth in urban areas that have a high incidence of H.I.V.
With few exceptions, the study found, young people believed that H.I.V. could not affect them. But most of the teen-agers said that, given the opportunity, they would be tested for the virus.
Maureen Michaels, president of Michaels Opinion Research, which conducted the study for the foundation, suggested that doctors ask sexually active adolescents whether they would like to be tested for H.I.V.
"It's a simple question," Ms. Michaels said. "It doesn't get asked all the time, but when it does, young people will say yes."
Authorities say that acting quickly is important. "The key to successful treatment is getting treatment early and consistently," said Victor Barnes, associate director for international H.I.V. prevention at the Centers for Disease Control. "For individuals who do not seek H.I.V. testing until they are experiencing symptoms of illness associated with H.I.V.-related diseases or AIDS itself, today's treatments cannot offer as much hope."
The teen-agers favored H.I.V. testing in offices that provided confidential and inexpensive tests, the study reported. Many did not want their parents to know.
Some of the teen-agers had called around for cost estimates for the H.I.V. test and given up because they thought they could not afford it and did not realize their other options, such as free testing in some cities.
The teen-agers also were more likely to be tested by doctors and nurses who respected the fact that they were sexually active. "I wouldn't have gotten tested if the nurse hadn't given me the opportunity," said Ms. Jako, who has received a grant from the Kaiser Foundation to travel and speak to young people about AIDS awareness. "As I was leaving the office, the nurse said, 'You've gotten tested for S.T.D.'s, why not get tested for H.I.V. as well?' My nurse and doctor were convinced that I was going to be healthy."
"I'm so grateful for their having provided me with the opportunity," Ms. Jako said. "It is their responsibility to give us the opportunity to be tested. If they hadn't tested me then, I could have attributed symptoms I had to other things, and I would never know to this day that I'm H.I.V. positive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At 18, Jennifer Jako did not think H.I.V. could affect her. She was wrong. Now she educates young people about AIDS. (MTV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION KAISER FOUNDATION (57%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TESTS AND TESTING AIDS & HIV (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: TANG, ALISA JENNIFER JAKO (92%); MAUREEN MICHAELS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



614 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Panel Criticizes Extent of Arafat's Power

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, June 28

 BODY:
Yasir Arafat, president of the Palestinian Authority, has concentrated executive power so completely in his own hands that he personally approves all senior officials' vacations and their per diem expenses, an international study released here today found.
Mr. Arafat has used government jobs to ease unemployment and to reward political loyalty to such an extent, the report says, that the public sector is bloated, inefficient and risks incurring staggering debts to pay pensions. 
 The Palestinian Legislative Council is relatively impotent, the judiciary is in disarray, unregulated monopolies rule many industries, and the police force abuses its powers. Yet, compared with many infant countries' governments, the Palestinian Authority, whose West Bank and Gaza territories are not even a state, is managing openly and spending well its billions of dollars in aid from international donors.
Those are some of the conclusions presented here today by an American-European panel sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and paid for by the European Commission and the Government of Norway. The panel, led by former Prime Minister Michel Rocard of France, has spent a year evaluating Palestinian institutions with the Palestinians' cooperation.
On Tuesday, the group, a high-powered assembly of former European Prime Ministers and American legislators, is to present its recommendations formally to Mr. Arafat.
The committee leavened its critical findings with compassion for the Palestinian Authority. It is not easy to evolve overnight from a secretive authoritarian military organization in exile like the Palestine Liberation Organization into a pluralistic government whose financial records are accurate and open, Mr. Rocard said.
In its five years of life, the authority has gone further down the path toward building democratic institutions, securing public order and delivering services to its rapidly growing population than many comparable "postconflict" governments, the group said.
"Have Africa in mind, please," Mr. Rocard said.
Palestinian journalists at a news conference here said the dynamic -- wrapping harsh assessments in praise -- reminded them of this Arabic saying: After hitting someone over the head, you must readjust his cap.
But the panel, which will continue to function as a consultant to the Palestinians, seemed determined to develop a critical-minded partnership with the authority and to goad it toward secular democracy.
That reflects, in part, the international community's determination to make sure that its $3.3 billion in assistance, pledged for five years, is not spent on a government in training that is corrupt, inefficient and abusive toward its citizens.
The report also underscores the fact that the Palestinians now enjoy significant political good will around the world, particularly from the Europeans, who consider the emerging Palestinian society a pet project.
"The five-year-old story of the Palestinian Authority is a story of success," said Terje Roed-Larsen, a special adviser to the Norwegian Foreign Minister. "Why? Because the Palestinian Authority has built its institutions under extremely difficult circumstances."
Mr. Roed-Larsen referred to the many impasses in the peace negotiations with Israel, which demanded that the Palestinians build "their new house" while traveling on a bumpy road to statehood. He noted that the Palestinians had been more closely scrutinized than any other "entity recipient of donor money on this globe."
That said, the committee's report suggested that it was a matter of great urgency for the Palestinian Authority to "acknowledge its own shortcomings" and change.
"Not to reform is not an option," said Henry Siegman, the project director and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "The World Bank and the I.M.F. will participate in the next phase, and they will be looking closely at the trend lines, at whether there is movement toward reform."
The report recommended that the Palestinians carry out these activities, among others:
*Establish a constitution, a move that Mr. Arafat has delayed.
*Pare the president's office by delegating added authority to the ministries and local governments.
*Grant greater power to the Legislative Council, which, the report says, the president stifles.
*Abolish the secretive state security courts and provide more support to an independent judicial system.
*Establish more financial openness and accountability by, at the least, presenting a detailed and timely budget to the Legislature and disclosing public revenues.
*Bring the police force under clear civilian authority, and, as the Israelis demand, reduce its size substantially.
When Mr. Arafat learned of the criticisms in an informal meeting, Mr. Siegman and others recounted, he suggested that he was being judged too harshly. For instance, what the Americans and Europeans see as a bloated payroll, he explained, he sees as a political management tool.
"He told us that if these people were not on the public payroll, they'd be in the streets causing problems for him, and then we'd be asking him to keep better control of the streets," Mr. Siegman said. "He argued that we overstated everything, that he's not running Monaco, and that he has people inside and outside who want him to fail."
The report, at least in the executive summary released today, does not deeply examine two problems that the authority's critics have considered paramount -- financial corruption, which involves the revenues that the authority collects, and not international money -- and human rights violations.
One Palestinian official noted that the entire leadership of the European Commission, which financed the panel, had stepped down after accusations of cronyism and corruption had been made."So what we are supposedly doing is perhaps not that remarkable," the official said.
At the news conference, the Palestinians' Planning and International Cooperation Minister, Nabil Shaath, said, "Questions about human rights have already been dealt with."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinians are erecting apartments in Gaza. A panel says their government is progressing in several areas. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (93%); NORWAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (82%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (82%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; NORWAY; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (93%); NORWAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PALESTINIANS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WRITERS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); 

PERSON: ARAFAT, YASIR; SONTAG, DEBORAH TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



615 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: A Windfall's Promise

 BODY:
The new era of government surpluses forecast last January has suddenly grown bigger and brighter. Over the next 15 years, President Clinton announced yesterday, the Federal Government will produce surpluses of $5.5 trillion, a cool $1 trillion higher than January's number. The President also offered some ideas about how to spend this windfall. In terms of broad intent, his proposals are not much different from those he unveiled five months ago. But in important details they are much improved. Mr. Clinton has also left the door ajar for discussion of broader tax cuts down the road. That is a political necessity, given Republican control of Congress, and positions the President to argue for tax relief for low- and middle-income families. But Mr. Clinton has no intention of cutting a deal on taxes until Congress addresses his main priorities.
His top priority, one that he hopes will become an important part of his legacy, is to reduce the national debt and shore up Social Security and Medicare. Fully 80 percent of the surplus would be devoted to these purposes, with the rest divided equally between discretionary-spending initiatives and a program to encourage individual retirement accounts. The emphasis on Social Security and Medicare is sensible and farsighted. If nothing is done, Social Security will be threatened with insolvency as the baby boomers retire. Medicare also requires substantial investments. 
 One addition to the President's plans is a program to provide improved prescription drug benefits for the elderly. The potential of this program for cost escalation has to be studied closely. But the most important change involves Social Security. In his earlier proposal, Mr. Clinton wanted the flexibility, in the early years, to spend Social Security surpluses on other programs -- much as those funds are spent now. Responding to criticism from both Republicans and Democrats, Mr. Clinton has now adopted the idea of a "lock box" to insure that excess revenues are used only to reduce the debt and to insure Social Security's long-term health. In addition, the interest saved by reducing the debt in future years would be earmarked exclusively for Social Security.
In sum, Mr. Clinton's fire wall around the country's two biggest entitlement programs is even stronger than before, which should please his Republican critics. Of course nothing will fully satisfy these Republicans unless he also gives some ground on their proposals for high-end tax cuts. On this score, Mr. Clinton reiterated his preference for targeted tax cuts for low- and moderate-income families, while not ruling out discussions about something bigger.
But he was tactically smart to insist on first things first. Strengthen the entitlement programs, he said, then we can talk about taxes and spending. That is the correct order. These rosy predictions, after all, are only predictions. No one can be sure what the economy will look like three years from now, let alone fifteen. The reasonable approach is to capitalize on today's boom to fix tomorrow's problems in Social Security and Medicare. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICARE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); FAMILY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); AGING (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



616 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Another Time Warner Unit Wins Tax Break From City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Three months after New York City granted a generous tax break to one division of Time Warner Inc., the Giuliani administration has agreed to provide the media giant with an additional $28 million subsidy for its publishing division, which includes Time, Fortune, Money and In Style magazines.
And Time Warner's bargaining for tax breaks may not be over. Warner Music, the company's music division, is scouring Manhattan for a new home, and, real estate executives said, another government incentive. 
 The city's latest deal with Time Inc. coincided with the company's decision to extend its lease in the Time and Life Building, at 1271 Avenue of the Americas, where it occupies 80 percent of the 1.6 million-square-foot skyscraper. The company, which has 4,200 employees in the city, has also signed a deal to rent 220,000 square feet of space in an adjacent office tower at 135 West 50th Street, which will be known as the Sports Illustrated Building.
Time plans to spend $190 million renovating the two buildings, which will be connected on the second floor.
Last March, the city granted Home Box Office, another division of Time Warner, an $11 million tax break after it decided to renew its lease at the northeast corner of 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas, opposite Bryant Park. As with Time Inc., few people in the real estate industry expected HBO to leave the city.
"How many times are they going to give a tax break to Time Warner," said Jonathan Bowles, research director of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit policy institute that is critical of such deals. "At one time, these deals might have been necessary to retain large employers. But today, they are nothing more than giveaways to influential companies that just want to grab their share of the city's tax revenue pie."
The Giuliani administration has granted more than $2 billion in tax breaks and electrical subsidies to 50 large corporations, a policy that critics say shifts the tax burden to small and medium-size companies while taking badly needed funds from the municipal coffers.
Randy L. Levine, Deputy Mayor for economic development, defended the $28 million deal, saying that Time Inc. had considered moving some administrative jobs to Atlanta, Boston and New Jersey. Mr. Levine also said that $12.3 million in benefits was tied to job growth.
Under the agreement, the company would get $1 million if it brought back 250 jobs that were transferred elsewhere in recent years. But if either Time Inc. or HBO reneges on the deal, both companies will lose all their tax breaks, he said.
"It's a good example of how we are creating jobs in New York City and bringing back jobs from other places," Mr. Levine said.
Ironically, such deals were the subject of an award-winning series in November in Time magazine about "corporate welfare," which, the magazine said, costs every working American the equivalent of two weeks' pay a year.
Given that Time Inc. still had 10 years to go on its lease at the Time and Life Building, some real estate executives were skeptical about the company's threat to move some jobs.
Peter Costiglio, a spokesman for Time Inc., declined to discuss the package of tax breaks, referring questions to city officials.
A year ago, the Giuliani administration rebuffed Time Warner when the company asked for tax breaks for its proposed new headquarters at Columbus Circle. Richard D. Parsons, president of Time Warner, had argued that he only wanted the same kind of subsidies the city had granted to his competitors: Bertelsmann A.G., Viacom Inc. and NBC. The New York Times Company and the News Corporation have also received tax breaks.
But city officials said it made no sense to provide tax breaks for a luxury project at one of Manhattan's most sought-after development parcels. Since then, Time Warner has talked to state officials about getting an incentive package for the Cable News Network, which is supposed to move into new digital broadcast studios in the 2.1 million-square-foot project at Columbus Circle.
"We made it clear during the bidding for Columbus Circle that there would be no tax breaks," Mr. Levine said. "We told Time Warner that we would deal with the individual operating companies. Therefore, the parent company will not be eligible for any incentive packages."
Although the city balked at providing tax breaks at Columbus Circle, it had no such compunctions about midtown Manhattan, where office rents are among the highest in the country. HBO briefly considered moving to a new tower in Times Square before it began renegotiating its lease at the Avenue of the Americas and opened negotiations with city and state officials.
Time Inc. was cramped at its headquarters in the Time and Life Building, its home since 1959. Company executives considered building a new tower, as well as moving some employees to different locations. Instead, the company extended its lease through 2017 and found additional space in an adjacent building. It will occupy 1.7 million square feet, with the ability to expand to 2.6 million square feet.
"We effectively expanded the corporate headquarters, created swing space for retrofitting and put Sports Illustrated's brand on the new building, all while satisfying Time's economic, location and image considerations," said Mitchell S. Stier, executive vice president of Julien J. Studley, the broker who represented Time Inc., along with Matthew Barlow and Michael Colacino. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC TIME WARNER INC (95%); TIME INC (94%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); MAYORS (88%); JOB CREATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RECORD REVENUES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RANDY L LEVINE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



617 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
This Is the Big One

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:

Memo to: President Mohammad Khatami of Iran & Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China
From: President William J. Clinton
Dear Gentlemen, I am writing to you both because though you may not know it, you share the same problem, a serious problem, which if not addressed effectively will become my problem. Quite simply, you are both facing the biggest challenge ever from your domestic opponents. This is the Big One for both of you. You run from this challenge and your aspirations for your respective countries will be squashed. It's that simple. 
 President Khatami, let's start with you. Your hard-line opponents have ginned up this bogus allegation that 13 Iranian Jews have been spying for Israel. We both know Israel would never be so crazy as to use the tiny Jewish minority in Iran to do its spying. But we also know why your opponents seized on this canard -- because it puts you in an impossible position. If you defend these Iranian Jews, your opponents will denounce you for protecting "Zionist agents"; and if you don't release them, and, God forbid, they are executed, your whole strategy of improving Iran's relations with the West -- beginning first with Western Europe and then with the U.S. -- will be aborted.
And let me assure you, if you kill these 13 Jews, Iran will be treated as a pariah state like you've never seen. You and Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein will be vacationing together for the rest of your lives.
We both know why this came up now. Iran will be holding its parliamentary elections in March. President Khatami, you trounced your opponents in the presidential election last year, winning 70 percent of the vote. But the hard-liners still control the Parliament, the judiciary, the Revolutionary Guards and the Intelligence Directorate. If you can win the Parliament in March, your opponents will really be on the run, so they are using this case to undermine you before the March runoff. But you still have the mass base with you, and you need to rally them, in the streets if need be, against those who want to use this spying case to cut off Iran from the world. Tell the prosecutors that if there is evidence of spying they must show it to the world. If not, Islamic justice requires that the accused be set free.
Prime Minister Zhu, the same goes for you. You know we bombed your embassy in Belgrade by accident. And you know your domestic opponents are keeping this thing alive to undermine all of those in China who want to integrate with the world and with the U.S. I know you need to let off steam, but the steam can also blow you away. When I read your recent Peoples Daily editorial comparing the U.S. with "Nazi Germany," it said to me that your opponents are trying to stir up a level of anti-Americanism not seen since the Cultural Revolution. And they are doing it to make it impossible for you to make the concessions needed for China to join the World Trade Organization -- which would impose a set of global rules on China's trading practices that your corrupt opponents have no interest in. I know you also have people who sincerely want to restore the walls around China, to free it from American domination and influence.
But Zhu, there is no future in Chinese isolationism, and if you don't take a stand against your opponents, if you are unable to mobilize President Jiang and China's elites to complete this W.T.O. deal (you've stopped even returning our negotiators' phone calls), you will never be able to accelerate economic reform as you aspire, let alone attract sufficient foreign investment or participate in the setting of global trading rules.
I know what I am asking you means I've got to confront my own domestic opponents, too. Zhu, you have my word that once you join the W.T.O. I will bring China into the G-8 and make it the G-9, and this time I won't shrink from getting Congress to ratify your W.T.O. membership. Mohammad, let me remind you again: the door is open for normal relations between America and Iran. Yes, I am ready to lift the sanctions on Iran and to take the measures that you have long called for, such as settling outstanding financial claims. But I'm not going to lift a finger for a rogue state that won't renounce terrorism and kills innocent Jews. Like I said, guys, this is the Big One for both of you. You run away from these challenges, you turn the other cheek, you balk, you blink, you're finished. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; CHINA; ISRAEL; SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ESPIONAGE; FOREIGN SERVICE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); RELIGION (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES); ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



618 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Interleague Games Too Lucrative to Lose

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
The upstart Cincinnati Reds sweep a four-game series from the Houston Astros and supplant them in first place. The second-place Seattle Mariners take two of three from Texas and move a game closer to the first-place Rangers. The second-place Mets win the first game of a three-game series with the first-place Atlanta Braves but then lose the next two games, winding up with a net loss of a game in the standing.
These series, played this past weekend, are the kind baseball should schedule more of, not interleague games, a growing number of players believe. Games like these bear most directly on division races, and they should take precedence over the still newfangled idea of games between National and American League teams, the players feel. 
Other complaints are growing, too. The interleague phase of the schedule, players say, creates unfair circumstances for teams competing for the wild-card spots in the playoffs. The Mets, for example, play the Yankees six times, giving them a more difficult burden than the San Francisco Giants, who have six games against the Oakland Athletics.
And if they have to play inter league games, some players say, rotate the division matchups, as was intended originally, rather than having the same teams play every year.
All of the criticisms are well founded, but the only one that has caught the immediate attention of the officials who make such decisions is the last. Rotating divisions has been put back into their planning, possibly for next season, certainly for seasons after that. In adjusting the interleague schedule, however, officials don't want to lose the attractive series between geographical rivals. Attendance figures demonstrate why.
The three-game series between the Mets and the Yankees at Yankee Stadium drew 168,404; the Yankees previously averaged 110,877 for three games. These are figures for some other series, with previous three-game average home attendance in parenthesis:
*Angels at Dodgers, 147,770 (120,012)
*Indians at Reds, 141,325 (61,599)
*White Sox at Cubs, 115,206 (101,325)
Two series in that category did not draw well: Florida at Tampa Bay (64,174) and Montreal at Toronto (76,651). What those figures suggest is that no one in Canada, not just Montreal, wants to see the Expos play, and that Major League Baseball made a major mistake in placing a team in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Actually, attendance figures from the first segment of this season's interleague schedule -- the second begins next Friday -- generally reflect serious fan interest in the games. Only three teams, Colorado, San Diego and Minnesota, averaged fewer fans for interleague games than for intraleague games to that point.
The Tigers and the Cardinals, geographical rivals not, drew remarkably well for their home-and-home series, 125,371 in Detroit, 135,912 in St. Louis. The Phillies and the Orioles attracted 143,906 in Baltimore, which was 7,000 a game more than the Orioles had drawn in the first two months of the season. And so on.
Critics of interleague play never wanted to see it started. Some now accept it for the economic windfall it has brought. Others ignore the economic benefits. They are the same people who criticize teams for selling naming rights to stadiums and putting advertising on the outfield walls.
But teams have to generate revenue where they can to pay enormous salaries.
Like interleague play or not -- there still is much to be said for having a World Series where the teams have not played during the season -- no one can deny fan interest.
"It's the drama, the excitement," Commissioner Bud Selig said. "We have to listen to our fans, and our fans for the most part in most places are loving this."
Selig was quick to shoot down the argument that not all interleague matchups are good. "There are," he said, "some intraleague rivalries that aren't too good."
By no means, however, is Selig satisfied with the existing schedule. He has long been a proponent of an unbalanced schedule, in which teams play significantly more games against each team in their division than against teams in other divisions.
Creating an unbalanced schedule with rotating interleague games and a continuing slate of interleague games between natural rivals is a challenge for the schedule makers.
Katy Feeney, the National League's senior vice president, cautioned that the combination of rotating opponents and maintaining natural rivalries would very likely create a greater imbalance of the sort that players object to, the one that has the Mets playing the Yankees while the Giants play the Athletics.
Although union officials are involved in the ongoing schedule discussions and would presumably restrain baseball officials from going astray with their ideas, the players could conceivably decide they no longer like the interleague plan and reject it. Interleague play requires player approval.
In the meantime, both sides will watch with avid interest to see if any fans show up July 9, 10 and 11 for the series between the Devil Rays and the Marlins north of Miami and the Blue Jays and the Expos north of the United States in Montreal. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); QUEBEC, CANADA (66%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (66%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (73%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (58%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (91%); CINCINNATI REDS (91%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (58%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%); ATLANTA BRAVES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (71%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%); QUEBEC, CANADA (66%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (66%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS FANS (75%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BUD SELIG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



619 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
SharesRise in Slow Trading In Advance of Fed Meeting

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices staged a broad advance yesterday, helped by a rally in the bond market. But with the Federal Reserve beginning two days of policy-making meetings today, the pace of trading was subdued.
"There is a great deal of uncertainty about the wisdom of chasing stocks right now," said Ned Collins, head equity trader at Daiwa Securities America. 
 Led by financial stocks like J. P. Morgan, American Express and Citigroup, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 102.59 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 10,655.15.
Broader market measures did even better.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.04, or 1.2 percent, to 1,331.35. Retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and technology stocks like Microsoft, Lucent Technologies and Worldcom MCI were among the biggest gainers in the index.
Internet stocks had a volatile day, but a late surge pushed the Nasdaq composite index up 49.79, or nearly 2 percent, to 2,602.44. And the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks gained 5.5, or 1.2 percent, to 448.61.
With the Fed meeting looming in the immediate future, however, trading was light.
On the Big Board, 652.9 million shares were traded, the third-lowest total of 1999. On Nasdaq, 761.9 million shares changed hands.
Given recent statements by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and other central bank officials, there is a broad consensus in financial markets that the Fed will raise short-term interest rates a quarter of a percentage point when the meeting concludes tomorrow.
But it is far less clear whether a move by the Fed would be a one-time event or the first in a series of moves. That uncertainty is likely to be removed when -- and if -- the Fed announces it has raised rates. Still, the Fed's message could come as an unwelcome surprise.
"If the language of the Fed announcement suggests that this is the first of a series of moves, that would be a problem for the market," said Philip S. Dow, a managing director in equity research at Dain Rauscher Wessels in Minneapolis.
"But the market is looking for negatives at a time when second-quarter earnings, which will start coming out next week, are going to be very good" he said. "For people who look at investing as a marathon, not a footrace, this is a pretty good time to be positioned."
Financial stocks, which have been jostled by rising interest rates, soared on yesterday's rally in the bond market.
J. P. Morgan was the top gainer in the Dow, rising 5 1/2, to 134 1/16. American Express gained 2 13/16, to 125 1/4. Citigroup rose 2 3/16, to 46. And Merrill Lynch added 2 13/16 to 74 13/16.
Retailers and software makers were also strong performers.
Wal-Mart gained 2 1/8, to 45 9/16. Dayton Hudson rose 2 5/8, to 66 7/8. And Microsoft gained 1 13/16, to 86 3/4.
Oil stocks struggled.
Exxon fell 1 1/8, to 75 1/16. Royal Dutch/Shell fell 1/2, to 58 7/16. And Mobil declined 1 1/8, to 95 5/8.
An announcement from Philip Morris that it does not plan to separate its tobacco and food businesses met with little reaction. Philip Morris closed at 41, down 3/16.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 By Bloomberg News
 Bond prices enjoyed their biggest gains in more than a week after a report showed inflation was not accelerating, and President Clinton said that bigger-than-expected surpluses could be used to retire the national debt.
The Government said prices paid for goods and services were unchanged in May after climbing in April, easing concern that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates several times, though the central bank is still expected to increase rates this week.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 23/32, to 88 17/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.09 percent from 6.15 percent.
Bonds also rose after Mr. Clinton said the United States could use its budget surplus to pay off the national debt by 2015. The move would lower interest rates, the President said, as investors compete for a dwindling pool of bills, notes and bonds.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.799	97.492	High Rate	4.75%	4.96%	Coupon Yield	4.89%	5.17%	Low Rate	4.62%	4.87%	Median Rate	4.71%	4.95%	Total applied for	$25,642,691	$27,344,215	Accepted	$11,277,691	$12,604,215	Noncompetitive	$1,258,485	$1,032,026	

Both issues are dated July 1, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 30, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 30, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); VZC (LSE) (70%); VZ (NYSE) (70%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (52%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



620 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Quietly Signs Bill Limiting Teen-Age Abortions

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 28

 BODY:
Avoiding the kind of public fanfare that she often uses when she signs major legislation, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman signed into law today the first significant restriction on abortion rights in New Jersey in more than 20 years, prohibiting a girl younger than 18 from obtaining an abortion unless her parents are notified.
Governor Whitman, who has built a national reputation as a moderate Republican by supporting abortion rights, signed the measure in the privacy of her office, just hours after conducting a highly publicized bill-signing ceremony to enact the state's $19.5 billion budget for fiscal year 2000. 
 New Jersey conservatives stunned many lawmakers in Trenton early this month by quickly ushering the bill through the Legislature during the last two weeks before summer recess. Mrs. Whitman, who had long opposed parental notification, acknowledged today that she began negotiating with legislators after they presented her with a bill that had been approved by a veto-proof majority.
And she said she agreed to sign the bill only after persuading its sponsors to include exceptions for pregnant teen-agers who can prove to a judge that they are mature enough to make the decision on their own and for cases in which there is evidence of physical, sexual or emotional abuse by a parent or guardian.
"This legislation strikes a common-sense balance that recognizes the rights of parents to know when a medical procedure will be performed on their minor child, while preserving a young woman's legal right to choose whether or not to have an abortion," the Governor said in a statement. Earlier in the day she rejected suggestions that she was trying to play down the abortion bill-signing, saying that she signed a dozen measures today without public ceremony.
The new law, which will take effect in 90 days, will make New Jersey the 39th state to require either parental notification or parental consent for minors seeking abortions.
Abortion-rights supporters have have pledged to challenge the constitutionality of the bill, and said they plan to file court papers in the next 90 days. Lenora Lapidus, legal coordinator for the American Civil Liberties Union, said early this month that she believed the law violated the State Constitution's guarantee of equal protection because it would deny minors access to the same health care options available to women over 18.
Ms. Lapidus also argued that the law was unconstitutional because it treated pregnant minors who choose to have their children differently than those who choose to have an abortion.
"New Jersey's State Supreme Court, in its past decisions, has ruled that the State Constitution gives broader protection to reproductive rights than the U.S. Constitution," said Ms. Lapidus, noting that courts in four states have struck down parental involvement laws. "And we're confident that they will rule that way in this case as well."
But abortion opponents say that similar bills have been upheld in many other states, and that New Jersey's law was carefully crafted to withstand a court challenge.
Marie Tasy, director of New Jersey Right to Life, praised Governor Whitman for signing the bill and said that many public opinion polls indicated that more than 65 percent of state residents favored parental notification. John Tomicki, the conservative lobbyist who helped negotiate the bill, said he suspected that any court challenge of the parental notification law would be financed largely by abortion providers, like Planned Parenthood, whose employees' livelihoods are at stake.
"It's unfortunate that these people are putting profits in front of parents' rights," said Mr. Tomicki, director of the League of American Families.
Although the abortion measure is likely to capture the most headlines, Mrs. Whitman and her aides tried to focus the most attention on the state's budget, which was delivered on time and with a surprising absence of rancor. Mrs. Whitman used her line-item veto to cut $5.5 million in spending proposals from the budget passed by legislators last week, far less than the $42 million in expenditures she vetoed last year.
The Governor said she was gratified that the budget will increase school spending and set aside $98 million to preserve open space while providing $8.6 billion in property tax relief.
But many Democrats expressed disappointment that the spending plan, which comes as the state is enjoying a strong economy, did not include more significant tax reductions. The tax cuts will save homeowners an average of $120 a year, but New Jersey's property taxes will remain the highest in the nation.
"We have to do a better job of leveraging our fiscal resources so that more citizens can benefit from New Jersey's prosperity," said Richard J. Codey, the Senate minority leader. "This budget provides some cosmetic property tax relief at a time when we should shoot for substantial property tax relief."
But Governor Whitman said the budget contained a variety of tax cuts to help the elderly, veterans and families earning $20,000 a year or less.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's signing of a new budget yesterday was a far more public affair than her enactment of a dozen other measures. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ABORTION (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); PARENTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



621 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumers Earning More, Spending More and Saving Less

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Spending rose in May at a faster pace than incomes, helping prolong the economic expansion as consumers go deeper into debt, Government figures showed today.
Spending rose six-tenths of a percent in May, and incomes increased four-tenths of a percent, the Commerce Department said. Those followed similar increases in April. The savings rate, meanwhile, fell to a record low in May. For every dollar saved, $1.012 was spent. 
 Consumers continue to spend on cars, appliances, electronics and clothing, making the United States economy the world's strongest. Economists say consumers are more willing to take on new debt and home-equity loans to pay for their purchases because high stock prices are inflating household assets.
Also, investors are selling stocks and using gains to pay for a range of big-ticket items, said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. "A steep stock market decline could reduce consumption quite sharply," he said.
At the same time, the report today included an inflation gauge known as the personal consumption price deflator, which showed that prices were unchanged in May after rising in April. The tame result helped ease investor concerns that the Federal Reserve Board might raise short-term interest rates by more than the expected quarter-point when it meets on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, prefers the price deflator over the more widely followed Consumer Price Index, calling it "a far superior measure of true underlying inflation from a technician's point of view."
The savings rate is measured by subtracting taxes and spending from incomes. But some economists say they think Americans are saving more than the statistics indicate. The savings rate does not take into account capital gains from investments, and it does not account for improvement in home values. It also assumes that purchases of big-ticket items, like cars and trucks, are made in one day with cash rather than over time with credit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" tracks total personal income, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from December 1997 through May 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SAVINGS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMPTION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); HOME PRICES (69%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (55%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



622 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: PLANNING FOR A SURPLUS: THE RED INK;
Clinton Sees the Possibility Of Zero U.S. Debt by 2015

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
President Clinton today raised the mind-bending possibility that the giant national debt clock in midtown Manhattan would soon start running in reverse -- and that by 2015, the Government would owe no money to investors around the world.
There is little question that Mr. Clinton described the general direction of the clock correctly. Barring a stock market disaster or a Japan-like recession, the Federal Government's $5.6 trillion debt, the figure on the clock, will begin diminishing in the next few months. That number includes debt that the Government owes to itself, mostly to the Social Security system. 
 The more important figure -- debt that the Government owes individual investors, companies and governments around the world -- has actually been in decline for two years. How much it can be reduced in 15 years is far more problematic, dependent on a huge range of economic assumptions -- chiefly the growth rate of the national economy -- that, given the inexact nature of such things, are most likely subject to major revision.
But even if the United States could pay off all its debt in the next 15 years, many economists and some Government officials say that might not be as great as it sounds. Although huge debts in the 1980's and early 1990's, when the Government ran up huge annual deficits, were a tremendous drag on the economy, a bit of national debt may be a good thing.
"It's almost hard to imagine what this country would be like debt-free," said Alan Sinai, the chief economist of Primark Decision Systems, an economic consulting group. "But while no politician would want to admit it, the optimal debt for the United States is probably not zero. What that optimal level should be, though -- now that's a subject for a real national debate."
Without question, reducing the debt creates a host of advantages for the United States. As the Treasury tames its appetite for borrowed money, it no longer competes with homeowners looking for mortgages, for example, or companies seeking to raise money. As a result, interest rates have more room to fall.
And as the debt declines -- Mr. Clinton's projections show that it will fall below $3 trillion in 2005, and below $2 trillion in 2009 -- the amount of interest the Government pays each year goes down substantially, freeing up even more cash, while raising the national savings rate. That, in turn, helps to compensate for the free-spending ways of American consumers, who in these boom times are barely saving.
"That may be the biggest single advantage," one of Mr. Clinton's senior economic advisers said today.
But a debt-free United States might create a more complex, and some say riskier, financial landscape worldwide.
For international investors, there is no safer place to put money than United States Treasury bonds. When the Asian economic crisis hit in 1997, and accelerated last year after the collapse of the Russian economy, investors around the world put their assets into United States Treasuries. These investments help make the dollar the world's most popular "reserve currency," the money other governments hold for economic security in their central banks. And they give the United States subtle but significant economic clout around the world.
If the Government stops long-term borrowing, the money that becomes available may stay in the United States, invested, say, in mortgages or corporate debt. But if investors do not have the security of investing in United States Treasuries, they may be less interested in holding their cash in dollars, and that could affect the dollar's value on world markets.
Investors could put their money in another country's treasury bonds -- say those issued by the new European Central Bank or the Bank of Japan. But that requires taking a bet on the future of European and Japanese currencies, adding a significant risk to the investment.
Whether any of this happens depends on a series of assumptions. The chief one is the future of the American economy. Mr. Clinton's projections, released today, assume that the American economy will grow between 2.1 percent and 2.6 percent a year for the next 15 years. The Administration made similar bets for the past seven years, and it was wrong every time. But the surprise was pleasant: the economy expanded far faster, and for far longer, than even the most optimistic Government projections.
The risk is that future errors could be in the opposite direction. That is what happened to Japan, which assumed that the successes of the 1980's would extend into the 1990's. It was the blunder of the decade, and Japan is mounting a huge debt as it tries to spend its way out of seven-year recession.
"These are difficult projections to make for even the next year or two," Mr. Sinai said today, "and even more difficult for beyond that." And the risk is accentuated because most of the paydown of the debt is to occur between 2010 and 2015, allowing plenty of time for economic and political miscalculation or happenstance.
On the other hand, the Government is closer to paying off the debts that really matter than even Mr. Clinton indicated today. While the debt clock reads $5.6 trillion, the figure that kicks around the United States Treasury is less than half that: $2.77 trillion, when the amount of debt held by the Federal and state governments and the Federal Reserve is subtracted. Under the President's projections, that debt will be paid off around 2011. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CREDIT PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



623 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Kroll Business Consultant Provided Access to Famous
Martin R. Frankel, the man the authorities suspect of siphoning more than $300 million from a string of insurance companies, gained access to powerful people with the help of a business consultant, Thomas J. Corbally.
Mr. Corbally was an insider at Kroll Associates, one of America's best-known private investigative agencies, having worked closely with Jules B. Kroll for almost 20 years and having an office at the firm's Manhattan headquarters. Page A1. 

Some Kosovo Aid Seen as Useless
About a third to half of the emergency medical shipments sent to Kosovo refugees, many given by American companies that got generous tax breaks for the donations, were inappropriate and likely to gather dust in warehouses or be destroyed at Government expense, according to the World Health Organization. A1.
 
Nalco to Be Sold for $4.1 Billion
Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux of France will acquire Nalco Chemical for $4.1 billion in cash and $400 million in debt. Suez is powerful in municipal water treatment and energy systems, but it has been a laggard in the industrial market, particularly in the United States. Gerard Mestrallet, Suez's chief executive, said that by adding Nalco, Suez could sell water treatment, energy and other services that corporations contract out. C2.
 
Clinton Details His Budget Plan
President Clinton laid out his proposal to use the growing Federal budget surplus to eliminate the national debt while shoring up Social Security and Medicare, and left open the possibility of a deal with the Republican Congress over its demand for big tax cuts. A1.
 
Agriculture Unit Proves a Hard Sell
American Home Products is having a hard time selling its troubled agricultural division, analysts said, because two of the most likely buyers -- Novartis and the Astra Zeneca Group -- are also trying to sell theirs. Sales worldwide of agricultural products are projected to dip about 3 percent this year, and the slip has prodded many chief executives to jettison their divisions. Market Place. C12.
 
Stocks Rally in Subdued Trading
Stock prices staged a broad advance, helped by a rally in the bond market. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 102.59 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 10,655.15. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.04 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,331.35, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 49.79 points, or nearly 2 percent, to 2,602.44. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 6.09 percent from 6.15 percent. C16.
 
Fidelity and Lehman Form Alliance
Fidelity Investments and Lehman Brothers have entered an alliance under which Fidelity customers will get access to a wide range of Lehman research and underwritings of stocks and bonds. Lehman will get a big retail outlet for its stock and bond underwritings and greater marketing capability. Shares of Lehman rose $3.6875, to $57.125. C2.
 
Colombia Devalues Its Currency
Hurt by a steep economic decline and speculative selling pressure on the peso, Colombia devalued its national currency by 10 percent in an emergency decree. C4.
 
A $100 Million Settlement for Fraud
Robert E. Brennan, the former New Jersey financier whose prominent philanthropy and love of horse racing turned out to have been financed by stock fraud, has agreed to a $100 million settlement of state charges. C6.
 
Steelmaker in Merger Talks
Mexico's largest steelmaker, which defaulted on $1.9 billion of debt two months ago, announced that it was discussing a proposed merger with an industrial conglomerate. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,655.15, up 102.59
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.09%, down 0.06
The Dollar -- 121.21 yen, down 0.22
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
New-Home Sales
 May figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -2.2%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of Lehman Brothers, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AZN (STO) (57%); AZN (NYSE) (57%); AZN (LSE) (57%); GSZ (PAR) (56%); GSZ (BIT) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); NVS (NYSE) (53%); NOVN (SWX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (71%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (53%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NALCO HOLDING CO (71%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (57%); GDF SUEZ SA (56%); PFIZER INC (53%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (53%); NOVARTIS AG (53%); FMR CORP (51%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (89%); BONDS (89%); CHEMICALS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); BOND MARKETS (87%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (78%); INSURANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); REFUGEES (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); MEDICARE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); AGRICULTURE (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); GERARD MESTRALLET (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



624 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Projects for Kennedy and Newark Approved

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey approved yesterday nearly $2.5 billion in projects at Newark and Kennedy International Airports that are expected to ease airline congestion, shorten waits for passengers and create thousands of jobs.
The Port Authority board, which consists of six members from each of the two states, voted unanimously for the projects. 
 The Kennedy project, due to be finished in 2006, will create about 1,000 construction jobs and will more than double the number of American Airlines gates. The Newark project, to be finished in 2003, will create 5,200 jobs and increase by a quarter the number of Continental Air Lines gates as well as provide improvements to the rest of the airport.
Lewis M. Eisenberg, chairman of the board, said in an interview: "This vote moves forward two of the largest economic development projects in the metropolitan area in the last decade. And it comes at a time when these two facilities are in urgent need of accommodating new international passengers from all over the world."
New York and New Jersey are hotly competitive for airlines because passengers tend to live or visit here rather than simply pass through, as they do at the locations of other busy airports like O'Hare in Chicago. If airlines can win passenger loyalty through improvements, airline executives reason, they can snare more high-paying first-class and business-class passengers. Last year, a consortium of international carriers, including Japan Air Lines and Air France, built Terminal 1 at Kennedy, the first new terminal in 25 years.
David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association in Washington, a consumer advocacy group, said the projects were "going to be great for passengers" because they would shorten waits for tickets and passport checks and walking time between connecting flights. "A lot of the foment among passengers comes from the lack of airline choice, limited services and congestion, and much of that has to do with the limited infrastructure of the airports themselves."
The larger of the two projects approved yesterday, costing $1.37 billion, is at fast-growing Newark Airport, where Continental Air Lines plans to spend at least $590 million to add 12 gates to its present number of 44 gates. Continental carries the majority of passengers at Newark and accounts for a quarter of the traffic in the metropolitan region, said David Messing, a spokesman for Continental, which is based in Houston.
The remainder of the spending, more than $780 million, will finance airportwide improvements, like new roads and parking garages.
Unlike the Newark project, the Kennedy project, which will cost $1.1 billion, will focus mainly on a new terminal for American Airlines. American will pay about $1 billion, and the Port Authority plans to spend $102 million for ramps and other infrastructure improvements leading to the new terminal.
Unlike the annual traffic at Newark, which last year hit a record 32.5 million passengers, up from 22.5 million in 1988, traffic at Kennedy has been flat, at roughly 31 million passengers, for most of the last 10 years..
The Kennedy project will more than double American Airlines' gates, to 56 from 23. American, one of the largest airlines at Kennedy, has 23 jet gates and 18 open-air parking spots for small aircraft of American Eagle, a subsidiary. After the expansion, American will have 41 jet gates and 18 new enclosed gates for American Eagle aircraft, said Al Becker, a spokesman for American Airlines, which is based in Fort Worth.
The new American terminal will replace the present Terminals 8 and 9, which handled 10 million passengers last year. The new terminal will have enough space to handle up to 14 million passengers and have 220 check-in counters and 20 curb-side check-in positions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (74%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); 9201 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (93%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (54%); PORT AUTHORITY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); LABOR AIRPORTS (96%); AIRLINES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



625 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: PLANNING FOR A SURPLUS: THE POLITICS;
Surplus a Salve for Clinton and Congress

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
In the aftermath of the battle over impeachment last winter, the friction between President Clinton and the Republicans who control Congress was so intense that the gears of Government seemed likely to be paralyzed for the next two years.
But an extra half-trillion dollars can buy an awful lot of lubrication. 
 No one in either party was willing to predict confidently today that the budget windfall -- $25 billion next year, $179 billion over the next 5 years and $517 billion over the next 10, a 20 percent larger surplus than was forecast in January -- would enable a peaceful resolution of long-standing disputes over Social Security, Medicare, taxes, education and managed health care.
In their public statements, both sides said they would try.
Mr. Clinton concluded his remarks this morning by saying he hoped "very much to work with Congress in the weeks ahead."
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, declared, "I hope the President's comments today indicate a summer of cooperation."
Behind the scenes, though, members of both parties were extremely cautious.
An influential Republican Senator said he and his colleagues simply did not trust the President to do more than jockey for political advantage. Even before the impeachment episode, Republicans periodically questioned the President's word on budget matters. Now they reflexively distrust it on nearly everything.
An Administration official said he could not imagine anything more than "a token tax cut" that Republicans would vote for and that the President could swallow.
The newfound money did allow the President, however, to open the door a little wider to tax reductions, the central element in Republican dogma.
And it permitted Republicans to agree with the President's point that hefty new spending may be needed to put Medicare on sound footing.
That means Mr. Clinton can no longer hold, as he did in his 1996 campaign for re-election, that Republicans were determined to cut Medicare to give tax breaks to the wealthy.
And Republicans can hardly accuse the President, as they did in their successful campaign in 1994 to win control of Congress, of favoring the biggest tax increase in history.
"He's moving toward us, and we're moving toward him," a political strategist on a Republican staff in the House said.
But as for the outcome, the staff member was uncertain. "It's either going to result in a hug, or it's going to result in a train wreck."
Since the beginning of this Presidency, the relationship between Mr. Clinton and Republicans in Congress has been dominated by fights over the budget.
In 1993, Mr. Clinton's first budget, which raised taxes and also was the first step toward reducing what appeared at the time to be indelible red ink, was approved without a single Republican vote in Congress.
In 1995 and early 1996, the budget dispute resulted in Government shutdowns.
In 1997, an eleventh-hour discovery that the annual deficit would be $50 billion less than anticipated -- a windfall not unlike the one announced today by the President -- led to passage of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, a cooperative arrangement for which Mr. Clinton and Congress took credit.
But last year, for the first time since modern budget procedures were adopted in the 1970's, Congress was unable to agree on a budget.
Although these fights involved revenues and expenditures, they were not primarily over money. They were mainly over competing views of the role of Government in society.
President Clinton sees the Government as a powerful engine for improving people's lives. Taxes, in his view, are not too high, and the revenues are needed to support the elderly and improve education.
The dominant Republican view is that the Government is an impediment to social and economic advancement. The Government should be shrunk, Republicans maintain, and taxes should be lowered so people can decide for themselves how to spend their earnings.
In that vein, the new budget boon does not help resolve some of the main disagreements between the President and Congress.
For instance, they both want to invest some Social Security money in the stock market. But the President wants the Government to control the investment. Republicans want individuals to have their own private investment accounts. Neither seems willing to compromise.
On the matter of taxes, Republicans favor measures like a lower capital gains tax and a reduction or even abolition of taxes on inheritances. The beneficiaries would largely be the most affluent taxpayers.
The tax cuts the President favors would seek to further specific social goals like making child care more affordable and helping communities raise money to build and modernize schools.
As a political matter, President Clinton's popularity has tended to rise in periods of confrontation like those of the Government shutdowns and the impeachment hearings. And Republicans have gained when there has been accommodation, as in the 1997 budget agreement.
So it might seem that Congress would be looking for a deal and the President would prefer an issue. But that may not be the case.
The word at the White House today was that the lame-duck President is thinking more nowadays about his legacy than politics. And in Congress, the bad feelings toward the President among Republicans and the distaste for cooperating with him can hardly be overestimated.
At a news conference this afternoon, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, began by talking of the potential for accommodation. But by the end, he could not resist sticking the needle.
"He says he wants to work with us and then he flies off to fund-raisers," Mr. Lott declared. "I don't know if he's serious or not."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republican Senators yesterday attacked Democrats' efforts to pass a patient's bill of rights. They included, from left, Jeff Sessions, Craig Thomas, Michael D. Crapo, Larry E. Craig, Trent Lott and Strom Thurmond. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX INCREASES (74%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); LARRY CRAIG (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); MIKE CRAPO (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



626 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Restraint on Rebuilding Serbia

 BODY:
As NATO peacekeepers struggle to quell ethnic violence in Kosovo, the West is considering the larger job of reconstruction in the Balkans. The initial impulse to limit aid to Serbia while Slobodan Milosevic remains in power is right. Some humanitarian assistance is justified, but no money should go to Mr. Milosevic or his Government.
The West has agreed to raise money for the rebuilding of Kosovo and Montenegro and economic development aid for Macedonia, Albania and other neighboring countries that suffered because of the war. The idea is to help them recover and tie the region more closely to Europe. 
 While few Serbians showed interest in the atrocities their countrymen were committing in Kosovo, they do not deserve to freeze this winter because of it. Democracy will be furthered in Serbia if people get over their fury with the West and realize that it is their leader, not ordinary Serbs, who is the target of sanctions.
Whenever possible, humanitarian aid should go to Serbia through independent groups, such as nongovernment organizations, opposition political leaders who run cities like Nis and Cacak and the Orthodox Church, which recently called for Mr. Milosevic to step down. Serbia has a temporary shortage of commodities that can most easily bypass the Government -- food and medicine. But the long-term threat is a winter of rolling electricity blackouts, which will cut heat and water for many. The country's electric power system should be rebuilt, but through the work of foreign companies or those owned by the opposition in Serbia. The West should support democracy in Serbia by helping groups like the independent media and opposition mayors, perhaps even helping them rebuild factories or infrastructure in their cities.
One of the most difficult reconstruction issues is what to about roads and bridges needed by Serbia's neighbors. Bulgaria, for example, depends on Serbia's portion of the Danube River -- currently blocked by bombed-out bridges -- for shipping. The river should be cleared of debris so commerce can resume, but the West ought not to rebuild the bridges.
If the reconstruction of Bosnia is prologue, then money will surely fall short of what Kosovo, Montenegro, their Balkan neighbors and democratic groups in Serbia need. Serbia's most basic need is not economic help, but democracy, which is best furthered if Mr. Milosevic is denied Western aid. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BULGARIA (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); MONTENEGRO (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BULGARIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



627 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Big Visions for the West Side;
Architects Turn Imaginations Loose on the Rail Yards

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
For developers and architects, it has long been the juiciest prize in Manhattan, a squalid corridor of rail yards covering 12 square blocks and stretching from the General Post Office on Eighth Avenue to the Hudson River. But what should be built on it?
Now the architects, or at least a small, internationally diverse group of the biggest names in their field, have spoken. And anyone expecting the predictable may be in for a jolt. 
 A stadium? Perhaps. And if it were built over the shoreline of the Hudson River, there might also be room for a new city park, an addition to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and a new Madison Square Garden.
Something simpler? What about a vast, glass-covered winglike structure extending from Ninth Avenue to the river that would provide the roof for New York City's biggest public commons? In a truly minimalist approach, one architect would leave the site almost entirely untouched except for erecting 70-foot-high "wind-blinkers" (that's British for windmills), thereby creating what he calls "the Lungs of Midtown Manhattan."
Whimsical or not, these are three of the five entries in what is regarded as one of the world's most prestigious architectural competitions for one of the city's most sought-after pieces of real estate.
The competition, which was sponsored by the Canadian Center for Architecture and judged by a panel that included such architectural luminaries as Frank O. Gehry and Philip Johnson, was intended to provoke fresh, cutting-edge and even practical ideas for the rail yards west of Pennsylvania Station, the site bordered by 34th Street and 30th Street between Eighth Avenue and the Hudson River.
The winner, announced last night, was Eisenman Architects, a New York firm headed by Peter Eisenman. It was the proposal by Mr. Eisenman, who is known for his experimental, sometimes controversial approach, that would incorporate a sports stadium, an addition to the Javits Center, a new Madison Square Garden and a public park atop the site's major new buildings.
In addition to the prestige of winning, Mr. Eisenman will receive a $100,000 prize but no assurance of future work on the site. All the finalists have already received $50,000 stipends to cover the four months' work needed to prepare their entries.
"This is the most important competition in America since the Chicago Tribune competition of 1922," said Mr. Johnson, referring to the architectural event that set parameters of style and design that were followed for decades. "It was hard to pick a winner," added Mr. Johnson, who at 92 is widely regarded as the dean of American architecture.
The competition has taken on a special importance not only because of the high-profile architects, but also because two high-ranking government officials were among the jurors. They were Charles A. Gargano, Gov. George E. Pataki's economic development adviser, and Joseph B. Rose, director of the New York City Department of City Planning.
The impressive lineup of architects was a reflection of the intense interest in the future of this site. Even though there is no official government mandate or financing to develop the land at the moment, the prospects for large-scale construction may be stronger than ever.
This is due to the city's strong economy, combined with the intense pressure to expand or rebuild public buildings on the periphery of the site. One is the Javits Center, just north of the rail yards, which the city and state hope to enlarge. Another is the General Post Office, which is to be renovated as a new Pennsylvania Station.
Added pressure has come from City Hall, where Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani wants part of the rail yards used for construction of a new sports stadium. The Mayor also supports extending the No. 7 subway line, which now runs along 42d Street as far west as Times Square, to serve as a conduit for both the Javits Center and the new stadium.
"This is not just an intellectual exercise," Mr. Rose said. "There is real interest and demand in this site, and the competition serves as a catalyst to get first-rate designers thinking on an ambitious scale."
All five firms will be invited to attend further discussions with city officials, he said.
Just how significant the results of this particular competition prove to be remains to be seen. Architectural competitions are far from new, particularly in a city as densely developed as New York and as preoccupied with urban design.
And, as was the case with the site of the New York Coliseum, the most ambitious and provocative proposals often have little relationship to what is eventually built.
In the case of the rail yards, the hurdles to development are large and complex, and the interests of builders, residents and government regulators are bound to conflict.
"We definitely are not interested in a stadium, and we don't want this corridor developed in a way that creates a barrier across the West Side of Manhattan," said Leni Schwendinger, president of the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association, one of several groups that have promised to fight any development plan that seems too immense.
Debate over the future of the rail yards site is bound to be intense, because much of the land is publicly owned, having been subdivided over more than 50 years among the city, the state and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
The competition underscores the intense interest surrounding the rail yard site among architects, who consider it one of the world's most important big-city tracts of underdeveloped land.
According to the organizers of the event, the finalists were chosen from 110 firms in Europe, Asia, Africa and the United States.
All five designs will be on display for a month starting in October in Grand Central Terminal.
Among the other proposals was one by the New York City firm of Jesse Reiser and Nanako Umemoto of Reiser & Umemoto RUR Architecture P.C., calling for a huge glass roof atop a public commons, which could accommodate up to 90,000 people for cultural events. That plan would also include three new hotels.
Ben van Berkel and Caroline Bos, of Van Berkel & Bos Studio, based in Amsterdam, proposed a vast structure that would house a larger and more technologically advanced Javits Center.
That plan would also provide a new pier in the Hudson River and gardens along the riverfront.
A California firm, Morphosis, headed by Thom Mayne of Santa Monica, Calif., proposed a large new structure extending along the spine of the rail yards site, which like Mr. Eisenman's plan would support a landscaped public area on its roof.
Mr. Mayne would use the part of the site just west of the post office and the new Pennsylvania Station for a new Madison Square Garden.
Perhaps least expected among the proposals was that of Cedric Price, of the London firm of Cedric Price Associates. He would take advantage of the breezes off the river to power his "wind-blinkers" and preserve the largest remaining open tract of industrial land in Manhattan.
"There are many situations in which to be systematically late is to be systematically wrong," Mr. Price said in the somewhat oblique text accompanying his entry. In other words, he seemed to be saying, enough damage has been done to the site already. Leave it alone.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Eisenman's winning proposal includes a stadium and a rooftop park. (Michael Moran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE; EISENMAN ARCHITECTS; JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT (69%); JAVITS CENTER (69%); GENERAL POST OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE; EISENMAN ARCHITECTS; JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT (69%); JAVITS CENTER (69%); GENERAL POST OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CONTESTS AND PRIZES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; EISENMAN, PETER FRANK GEHRY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



628 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: PLANNING FOR A SURPLUS: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON OUTLINES PLAN FOR SURPLUS; G.O.P. SUSPICIOUS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
President Clinton laid out his proposal today to use the fast-growing Federal budget surplus to eliminate the national debt while shoring up Social Security and Medicare, and left open the possibility of a deal with the Republican-led Congress over its demand for big tax cuts.
The plan could set the stage for a grand compromise with Republicans encompassing new spending on the military and social programs as well as tax cuts and the fate of the two giant retirement-security programs. Or it could just as easily lead to a hardening of positions and a bitter struggle extending into the 2000 elections. 
 Republicans, who plan to begin a push in the next few weeks to pass a $775 billion, 10-year tax cut in the face of a veto threat, welcomed the news of a growing surplus and said they were heartened by some aspects of Mr. Clinton's proposal. But they remained suspicious of Mr. Clinton, who has repeatedly bested them in budget politics and like them is torn between a desire for a bipartisan deal and his party's need for potent campaign issues.
"We're interested in deeds, not words," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader.
Predictions of budget trends have as often as not proved wildly inaccurate, and the current rosy estimates, essential to the debt-reduction plan, rest partly on assumptions that the economy will avoid any prolonged downturns. Page A14.
The Congressional Budget Office plans to unveil its own surplus estimates this week, and they are expected to be even larger than the White House numbers disclosed by Mr. Clinton today.
Citing calculations by the White House's Office of Management and Budget, Mr. Clinton said the surplus would be more than 20 percent higher over the next 10 years than projected just five months ago.
From 2000 through 2009, the total surplus is now anticipated to be a cumulative $2.93 trillion, up from an estimate of $2.4 trillion in February, putting more than $500 billion more on the table. Over 15 years, the surplus will be more than $1 trillion larger than previously estimated.
"The surplus is the hard-earned product of our fiscal discipline," Mr. Clinton said this morning on the White House South Lawn before leaving on a fund-raising trip to Connecticut and New York. "We should use it to prepare for the great challenges facing our country -- caring for our parents, caring for our children, freeing our nation from the shackles of debt so that we can have long-term sustained economic prosperity."
In the short run, the new Administration projections show that the Government will reach a milestone next year, when it will not only run a surplus but for the first time since 1960 will spend less than it takes in even without including revenues generated by Social Security taxes.
The $70 billion surplus the Government posted last year and the estimated $99 billion it is running this year are completely accounted for by revenues that are technically earmarked for the retirement system but that in practice go into a pot with all other tax receipts.
The non-Social Security surplus next year will be tiny in the context of a $1.9 trillion budget -- about $5 billion -- but it will grow rapidly, and will total more than $1 trillion over the next 10 years, according to the White House projections.
In the long run, the projections foresee a considerably more far-reaching accomplishment: the elimination by 2015 of the Federal debt held by the public, which now stands at $3.6 trillion and has long hurt the economy by forcing up interest rates and requiring a big chunk of tax revenues to go for interest payments.
"We have now cut up Washington's credit card," Mr. Clinton said. "Now we can pay off the debt."
Mr. Clinton's basic approach was to dangle the possibility of agreeing to tax cuts and new spending, but only if Congress goes along with his new ideas for Social Security and Medicare, both of which face severe financial problems in coming decades as the baby boom generation retires.
The President did not formally propose lifting the tight spending caps that have left Congress struggling to pass appropriations bills this year. But in a nod to his own party's priorities, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to spend $156 billion of the surplus over the next decade on domestic programs including education, child care and health, a sum that would require the caps to be revised or eliminated in the next few years.
Administration officials said they would concentrate on passing Mr. Clinton's proposal for tax incentives intended to stimulate more retirement savings among low- and middle-income families. But when asked if he could support additional tax cuts, Mr. Clinton left the door open to compromise.
"Within the framework of achieving these objectives, obviously I'll be working with the Congress to achieve them," he said.
The President is to release a detailed plan on Tuesday for overhauling Medicare. He said today that it would include using nearly $800 billion from the surplus over the next 15 years to keep the system of health insurance for the elderly afloat at least until 2025, an improvement of a decade over previous estimates.
But today Mr. Clinton effectively backed off of his previous demand that Social Security's financial health be assured for 75 years, the traditional benchmark for long-term solvency. Instead, Administration officials said that while they would still like to complete an overhaul of Social Security for the long run, Mr. Clinton would be willing to unlock the surplus for tax cuts and new spending as long as Congress and the Administration could make progress on bolstering Social Security's finances.
To achieve that end, Mr. Clinton offered a variant of ideas that both he and members of Congress from both parties have been debating for months. He acceded to demands from Republicans that none of the excess Social Security taxes be available for spending, a shift from his previous proposal that would have allowed some of the Social Security money to go for other purposes in the next few years.
Instead, he proposed that all excess Social Security tax revenues -- more than $3 trillion over the next 15 years -- go to reducing the national debt, rather than being spent, as has been the practice of past Congresses and Administrations for decades. In addition, Mr. Clinton would funnel general tax revenues into Social Security starting in 2011, in an amount equal to the interest saved by reducing the debt over the previous decade -- $107 billion in 2011, rising to $166 billion in 2014.
The plan would insure Social Security's solvency through 2053. If nothing is done, Social Security will run short of money to pay benefits starting in 2034.
Republicans said the new approach appeared to be an improvement over Mr. Clinton's original Social Security proposal earlier this year. But the plan set out by Mr. Clinton today would funnel the new money into Social Security through a mechanism that Republicans have long rejected: having the Social Security trust fund buy stocks and corporate bonds.
While Mr. Clinton's approach would give Social Security tangible assets with which to finance retirement benefits rather than paper promises from the Treasury, it runs afoul of Republican opposition to the idea of Government as an investor in private industry.
"It's a proposal that's doomed to fail from the beginning," said Richard E. May, a former Republican staff director for the House Budget Committee who is now a lobbyist.
News of the improving fiscal picture called to mind 1997, when a budget windfall helped break a political logjam and allowed both parties to agree to a balanced budget plan. In that case, both parties got enough of what they wanted to be able to claim victory.
There is now clearly enough money on the table for the White House and the Republican leadership to work out a deal.
But that prospect makes rank-and-file members of both parties nervous. Conservative Republicans fear that Mr. Clinton will again win a substantial increase in spending, ending their hopes of reducing the size and influence of the Federal Government. Liberal Democrats fear that Mr. Clinton will sell out their concerns about the poor and children in order to chalk up a legacy-enhancing bipartisan budget deal near the end of a Presidency marred by the impeachment trial.
The political calculus is complicated by Mr. Clinton's desire to help the campaigns of Vice President Al Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton. Eliminating Social Security, Medicare and tax cuts as issues for the next election could take time-tested campaign themes away from Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Gore and Democrats who hope to regain control of the House.
Having huge new sums of money available "makes it easier to get a deal, but it doesn't make it easy," said Rudolph G. Penner, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who is now a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. "There will still be huge arguments within the parties and between the parties about the proper way to go."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacob J. Lew, left, head of the Office of Management and Budget, explained President Clinton's proposed budget in Washington yesterday, with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, Gene Sperling, head of the National Economic Council, and John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Chart/Graph: "THE FORECAST: A Rosier Projection Of the Budget Surplus"
Graph plots the annual Federal budget surplus in billions of dollars, from 1990 through 2009. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; TAXATION; AGED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; VETOES (US); FORECASTS; HEALTH INSURANCE BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (59%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); JACK LEW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999



629 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
In France, a Rumble Is Heard: 'Vive Gallo'

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FOR an American winemaker, France is the belly of the beast, a virtually impenetrable market. From Bordeaux to Burgundy, from Champagne to Beaujolais, American wines are about as popular as some new strain of vine-eating bug.
But you wouldn't learn that by talking with Michael Novy, 32, a breezy Chicagoan charged with nothing less than establishing the wines of Ernest and Julio Gallo in France. While his reception has often been about as warm as that accorded the Americans who stormed the Normandy beaches 55 years ago, Mr. Novy is confident that he, and the giant California winery he represents, will prevail. 
 Gallo has had considerable success in the rest of Europe. After little more than a year in Germany, its 1998 sales there were a million cases. Gallo wines also have a modest presence in Belgium, the Netherlands and Scandinavia. And its sales in Britain last year came to some two million cases.
The most popular Gallo labels overseas are Turning Leaf and the Ernest & Julio Gallo Wine Cellars. In European markets, Gallo advertising emphasizes the Gallo family heritage, tapping into the Old World respect for family ties and for elders. In France, striving for a youthful image, the company focuses its advertising on Gina and Matt Gallo, Julio Gallo's grandchildren, the third generation in the business.
Mr. Novy and his team set up shop in France just a year ago in Boulogne-Billancourt, just outside Paris, after studying the market for quite some time. "We were really surprised," he said. "We'd been lead to believe that the French were unalterably opposed to non-French wine. What we discovered was that about 10 percent of all French wine drinkers would like to try something else."
He said he was targeting the 25-to-40-year-old consumer with disposable income, a yen for travel and a taste for American movies in English. Turned away by some of the major French wine distributors, Gallo got a more encouraging response from supermarket chains like Auchan, Casino and Carrefour.
Not too many years ago, poor vintages and wines from marginal regions were dismissed by Frenchmen as "supermarket wines." Now, some of the most prestigious winemakers, including famous Bordeaux chateaus and small Burgundy estates, are not unhappy seeing their labels on supermarket shelves. Which has not always made things easier for Mr. Novy and Gallo. Some supermarkets have ordered him to remove his wines after only a few days on display because they weren't selling.
Mr. Novy said Gallo's immediate goals were modest. Fewer than 2,000 cases were sold in France last year, and he hopes to sell about 5,000 cases in 1999. Not much for a company that produces some 75 million cases of wine and spirits a year. But Mr. Novy is undeterred. "It will take us 5 to 10 years" to see a return on investment, he said.
Gallo may be the best-known American winemaker trying to open up the French market, but there are others. American wine exports last year totaled about $530 million, mostly to Canada. Exports to France totaled only about $8 million.
If France is a particularly tough market to crack, the reason has more to do with economics than chauvinism. Even though the French drink more wine than anyone else -- more than 16 gallons a person a year, compared with just under 2 gallons a person in the United States, according to Impact, a trade publication -- wine consumption in France has fallen steadily since the 1950's. Recent figures show that more than half of all French adults drink no wine at all. Each year, millions of gallons of surplus French wine are converted to alcohol and burned.
The rare Bordeaux wines that sell for astronomical prices and make headlines account for only 2 percent of Bordeaux's production. A powerful, resourceful competitor like Gallo is understandably viewed with alarm there and in other parts of France. Not by Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, perhaps, but by dozens of major producers of average table wines.
What's more, the French image of American wine could change rapidly. Since a now-historic blind tasting in Paris in 1976, when French experts preferred some relatively unknown California wines to some of the most famous Bordeaux, French winemakers have had considerable respect for American wines. Young French winemakers regularly apprentice at California wineries, and it's no secret that many prominent Bordeaux wine producers now make their wines in the less tannic, earlier-maturing California style. Many other winemakers, particularly in the south of France, have adopted the American practice of identifying wines by their grapes, rather than by the place from which they come.
In commenting on Gallo's initial moves into the French market, the newspaper Le Monde noted that Gallo, the largest winery in the world, has a longstanding relationship with Wal-Mart, the largest retailer in the world, and that the two were working together in Germany. Wal-Mart recently acquired Asda Group P.L.C., Britain's third-largest supermarket chain, which can only strengthen Gallo's position there. Wal-Mart has as yet no position in France, but the moves in Germany and Britain leave little doubt that Gallo intends to be a major participant in the wine business in Europe.
"We are here for the long term," Mr. Novy said, and it's evident that Gallo has the means to be patient. The company had an estimated $1.2 billion in sales in 1998, which, Le Monde noted, is a little more than was sold by the entire Bordeaux wine exporting business.
 
TASTINGS
Rich, but Without a Price to Match
 
Danzante Sangiovese 1997, Le Marche, Italy. About $10.
IT'S about time we all got a break, and here it is: a really delicious Italian wine, widely distributed and at a great price. This is yet another fruitful result of the combined talents of the Robert Mondavi Winery in California and the Frescobaldi family in Tuscany. This one, from the point of view of the average wine buyer, really makes sense.
The sangiovese grape is usually associated with Tuscany and Chianti wine, of which it is the chief component. But good sangiovese can be found all over north and central Italy. The Marches, the coast region east of Tuscany and Umbria, produces excellent wines from the grape, and this is one of them. It's a rich wine with lots of fruit, and it's ready to drink now. "Danzante," by the way, is Italian for "dancing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: AN AMERICAN IN PARIS -- Gallo wine is sold in the Casino supermarket in Paris, which also offers several other wines from California. (Olivia Gay for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NETHERLANDS (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (92%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (56%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: GALLO, ERNEST & JULIO, WINE CELLARS OLD WORLD BAKERY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLO, ERNEST & JULIO, WINE CELLARS

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NETHERLANDS (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (92%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING WINE (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); FILM (50%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J JULIO GALLO (97%); MICHAEL NOVY (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



630 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: How Not to Spend the Surplus

BYLINE: By Leon E. Panetta; Leon E. Panetta served as President Clinton's chief of staff, director of the Office of Management and Budget and chairman of the House Budget Committee.

DATELINE: CARMEL VALLEY, Calif.

 BODY:
My father, an Italian immigrant, lived through the Great Depression and, like countless others, never forgot its lessons. His advice was born of that experience: "Never take the good times for granted; always save something for the future because you just never know what can happen."
Washington would do well to take that same advice today as it debates what to do with the surplus. 
 This week, it was announced that the projected budget surplus will exceed all expectations: $99 billion in 1999, $142 billion in 2000. In 10 years, it's estimated, there will be a surplus of $2.926 trillion; in 15 years, the figure will be a whopping $5.935 trillion.
Of course, this is a proud achievement. The combination of tough budget plans and a booming economy has produced results far beyond anyone's projections. And the temptation to spend this bounty is understandable. But it is also dangerous.
Remember that not so long ago the nation was looking at endless annual deficits totaling $300 billion per year. And remember, too, that a balanced budget was not achieved with a quick fix, but with political leadership and courage. President George Bush paid a political price for agreeing to the 1990 budget agreement that raised taxes. President Clinton lost a Democratic Congress in part because of the one-vote margin that passed his 1993 economic plan.
The current debate is over whether part of the surplus should be used for tax cuts, as Republicans want, or to shore up Social Security, Medicare and other domestic programs, as the Democrats urge. But if there is a lesson to be learned from the last 30 years of deficit spending, it is that this hard-won surplus should not be spent now; it should be saved for the future. The reasons are clear:
There is no surplus yet. While the Social Security portion of the budget enjoys a surplus of $123.6 billion this year, the rest of the Federal budget is still in the red, to the tune of $24.8 billion. It seems a little presumptuous to spend the surplus when the non-Social Security portion of the budget has not yet realized even $1 of surplus money.
What about the national debt? The years of annual deficits have ballooned the debt to more than $5 trillion, with $3.72 trillion of that debt held by the public. The net interest being paid by taxpayers in 1999 is $229.4 billion. In 1979, the ratio of total debt held by the public to gross domestic product was 25.7 percent. In 1993, it was 50.2 percent. Today, even with the projected surpluses, it is still 44.3 percent. President Clinton is right to argue that the debt should be significantly reduced before the surplus is spent on anything else.
The baby boom generation is getting older. In nine years, the baby boom generation, 76 million Americans, will start retiring. Both Social Security and Medicare will be under serious financial stress. With those uncertainties, it makes more sense to protect the surplus rather than spend it now on new or increased benefits.
The economy remains strong but unpredictable. There is no question that the nation is enjoying the strongest economy in its history. Growth in the last quarter of 1998 was 6 percent, and it is continuing at 4 percent in the first quarter of this year. The economy has outperformed every benchmark. But the Clinton Administration's economic update projects a reduced growth rate and an increased unemployment rate over the next two years. While this may not affect the surplus, it tells us that the economy will probably slow down. And history tells us that it doesn't take much to adversely affect our economy; a sudden increase in the price of oil, a surge of inflation, a major strike, an international financial crisis can suddenly send economic forecasts into a spin. None of this, of course, may happen, but why not plan for the possibility?
Regardless of the economic arguments, it is fair to ask whether the current political atmosphere in Washington is conducive to producing the kind of budget agreement that the nation deserves. The 2000 campaign is already well under way. The Republican campaign strategy is to push for a large tax cut, and the Democratic strategy is to push for spending $156 billion of the surplus on education, child care and health.
Indeed, even with the surplus, the President and the Congress have so far been unable to agree on a Federal budget this year. Congress may very well be headed toward another Government shutdown in October, because few, if any, appropriations bills will be passed.
If decisions about the surplus are made under the threat of a shutdown or while the parties are worried about their own political survival, the result is unlikely to be in the nation's interest. Neither side seems prepared to engage in the serious negotiation necessary to achieve a balanced agreement. This climate could change, but the bitter partisanship in this Congress is not something you want to bet the nation's surplus on.
For all these reasons, it would be better, for now, to leave the surplus alone and do what my father advised: "Save something for the future because you just never know what can happen." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); TAX LAW (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); MEDICARE (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); 

PERSON: PANETTA, LEON E BILL CLINTON (70%); LEON E PANETTA (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



631 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: The Gasoline-Powered Raise

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank; Robert H. Frank, a Cornell University economist, is the author of "Luxury Fever" and the co-author of "The Winner-Take-All Society."

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
What's a business to do when it can't hire and retain enough qualified workers? Economists, who have been described as often wrong but never in doubt, have a ready answer: simply offer higher salaries!
But at least some employers now appear to have discovered a far more effective tactic. For example, Arcnet, a wireless telecommunications company in Holmdel, N.J., figures to slash its recruiting and training costs by more than half with its recent offer of a "free" BMW sedan to every employee with at least one year of service. Several other companies have reported success with the same offer. 
 The cars are not really free, of course. Each one costs about $9,000 a year in leasing and insurance fees. Employees who get one must declare that amount as additional income to the Internal Revenue Service.
So we're left with a puzzle: if the company had given not the car but an additional $9,000 a year in salary, no one should have been worse off, and at least some should have been better off. After all, any worker who really wanted a BMW could have spent the extra cash to lease one. And although the BMW is a fantastic car, those who happen not to want one would have come out ahead by having $9,000 a year extra to spend on other things.
Why, then, do employers give cars instead of cash? Essentially the same question is raised by ordinary gift exchanges among family and friends. Why give your cousin a necktie he might never wear when you know you could trust him to spend the same money on something he really wants?
Some would answer that giving cash is just too easy, and is hence a less effective way of demonstrating affection than taking the time and trouble to shop for a gift. That explanation might work for small gifts, but it's surely a stretch for luxury cars.
A more promising tack has been suggested by Richard Thaler, an economist at the University of Chicago, who has observed that the best gifts are often things we're reluctant to buy for ourselves. Why, for example, is a man happy when his wife gives him a $1,000 set of titanium golf clubs paid for out of their joint checking account? Perhaps he really wanted those clubs but couldn't quite justify spending so much. Having someone else make the choice allows him to enjoy his new clubs guilt-free.
One attraction of this way of thinking about gift giving is the plausibility of the advice it suggests for gift givers. Consider this thought experiment: Among each of the following pairs of items costing the same amounts, which item would be the more suitable gift for a close friend?
* $20 worth of macadamia nuts (1 pound) or $20 worth of peanuts (10 pounds)?
* A $75 gift certificate for Lespinasse (one lunch) or a $75 gift certificate for McDonald's (15 lunches)?
* $30 worth of wild rice (4 pounds) or $30 worth of Uncle Ben's converted rice (50 pounds)?
* A $60 bottle of Mondavi Reserve Cabernet (750 ml) or $60 worth of Cribari red (10 gallons)?
Most people would say the first item in each pair is almost surely the safer choice.
The same logic may explain why Arcnet and other employers in the fast lane are giving away BMW's. Perhaps you'd find it awkward to tell your Depression-era parents that you'd bought a car costing twice as much as a Toyota Camry. Or you may worry that your neighbors would think you were putting on airs if you bought yourself a new BMW. Or perhaps you've wanted to make such a purchase but your spouse insists on remodeling the kitchen instead.
A gift car from your employer wipes away all these concerns and more. From the company's perspective, an added advantage is that offering a luxury car to all long-term employees would kindle fewer resentments than the alternative strategy -- also recently in the news -- of offering cash signing bonuses only to new recruits.
Is the American labor market headed for a full-fledged barter system? Not likely, because the Arcnet strategy would make little sense for many employers. Burger King owners, for example, probably won't dangle used Ford Escorts the next time they find themselves short of counter help. They and other employers of unskilled labor are more likely to stick with the time-honored strategy of paying higher wages.
But in-kind compensation is almost sure to spread further among employers of the most highly skilled workers. It is these employers who have faced consistent labor shortages, and it's the people they are trying to hire and retain who have been so responsive to the new luxury offerings.
As the trend unfolds, the gifts are likely to change. The new strategy depends on the gift's ability to generate excitement. And excitement, always and everywhere, depends on context. Most readers were astonished when the young lawyer in John Grisham's 1991 novel "The Firm" was given a new BMW as a signing bonus, and the same tactic attracts media attention even today. As more and more companies adopt this tactic, however, it will inevitably lose much of its punch.
To achieve the same impact, employers will have to raise the stakes. Can anyone doubt that talented consultants and software developers will eventually snub any employer who dares offer less than a Porsche 911?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Paula Scher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIFTS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); SEDANS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); GOLF (69%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (57%); 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



632 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Is Highest Since '68

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose in June to the highest level in more than three decades, suggesting to some that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates more than once to rein in spending.
The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence rose to 138.4 this month from 137.7 in May, the research group said today. June's reading was the highest since October 1968. "It looks like we are getting to the point where euphoria is creeping into consumers' outlook," said Vincent Boberski, senior economist at the brokerage firm Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. 
 Still, a Commerce Department report showed that higher borrowing costs might be starting to cool demand in at least one part of the economy. Sales of new single-family homes fell 5.1 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 888,000 units, reversing much of the 6.4 percent increase in April.
The message from the housing report is that rising mortgage rates may be keeping home buyers at bay, analysts said.
Consumer confidence is closely watched because spending accounts for about two-thirds of the gross domestic product. Consumer spending bounded ahead in the first quarter at the fastest pace in 11 years, bolstered by rising incomes and stock prices, which set highs in May.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, suggested to members of Congress two weeks ago that Fed policy makers might raise interest rates pre-emptively, even with few signs of an acceleration of inflation. While consumer prices rose at a 2.6 percent rate in the first five months of the year, up from a 1.6 percent increase last year, that was still lower than the 3 percent yearly average increase in the Consumer Price Index so far in the 1990's.
The Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy panel, began a two-day rate meeting today, and many expect it to raise the overnight bank-lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5 percent. It would be the first increase in interest rates since March 1997.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Prices of New Homes" tracks the national median price for new homes, from December 1997 through May 1999. (Source: Commerce Department); "New-Home Sales" tracks number of new private homes sold during month, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, over the same period. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; HOUSING; SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



633 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Embattled Bankers Trust Chairman Resigns

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 29

 BODY:
Frank Newman resigned today as chairman of the Bankers Trust Corporation, apparently isolated and powerless after Deutsche Bank A.G. acquired his company for $10 billion early this month.
"I concluded that the role originally envisioned for me will not be necessary," Mr. Newman said today in a brief written statement. "I thought it made sense for me to step aside at this time." 
 The statement said Mr. Newman would pursue "other projects" after his departure on Wednesday, but did not elaborate. Deutsche Bank officials said he was not available.
Though Deutsche Bank and Mr. Newman's statement both portrayed the resignation as amicable, it came after Deutsche Bank retreated from a promise to give Mr. Newman a seat on its management board.
Mr. Newman, 57, had come under increasing criticism after Bankers Trust pleaded guilty to illegally diverting $19.1 million in funds from dormant accounts between 1994 and 1996.
Though Mr. Newman did not take over Bankers Trust until after the practice was stopped, the guilty plea was a surprise to Deutsche Bank.
Deutsche was deeply embarrassed by a small stock scandal three years ago at Morgan Grenfell, the British investment bank it had acquired in the early 1990's. To avoid a repeat, Deutsche Bank executives established much tighter control over Bankers Trust and indeed are doing away with the name itself.
Under the original takeover plan announced last November, Mr. Newman was to become co-chairman of Deutsche Bank's corporate banking and investment banking division, known as Global Corporates and Institutions. He was also supposed to become a member of Deutsche Bank's management board.
But after Bankers Trust's guilty plea, some of Deutsche's top executives rebelled against giving Mr. Newman a board seat. When the two banks formally completed the sale on June 4, they omitted any mention of the matter.
Mr. Newman will not leave penniless. His contract with Bankers Trust guaranteed him salary and bonuses of roughly $55 million, and Deutsche Bank may pay significantly more in order to avoid an embarrassing public fight.
Deutsche Bank, Germany's biggest bank, wants to use Bankers Trust as a springboard into the United States and to strengthen its position in investment banking.
Mr. Newman, a former Deputy Treasury Secretary, was hired in late 1995 to clean up Bankers Trust after a series of scandals at the bank involving high-risk derivative securities. He orchestrated several acquisitions, including that of Wolfensohn & Company, a small investment bank, and BT Alex. Brown & Sons, the Baltimore brokerage firm with a reputation in high-technology stocks.
But Bankers Trust suffered heavy losses as a result of Russia's economic collapse, and it was in desperate need of a strong new partner.
The German bank has thus far installed Bankers Trust executives in several senior jobs. Yves de Balmann and Mayo A. Shattuck 3d have been placed in charge of Deutsche Bank's global investment banking operations. Mary Cirillo will be in charge of the bank's large business in custodial services for securities.
Deutsche Bank budgeted $400 million to $500 million for incentive bonuses aimed at retaining key Bankers Trust executives.
But Deutsche Bank's chairman, Rolf-Ernst Breuer, made it clear in November that he was taking firm control. "This is an acquisition," he said, not a merger.
As plans moved forward during the last six months, Mr. Newman had become increasingly isolated. Deutsche Bank installed John Ross, an American who had formerly run its Asian operations, in charge of North American operations.
Though Mr. Newman was supposed to share power over the Global Corporates business with Josef Ackermann, a Deutsche Bank board member, he remained outside the lines of real operational authority.
Mr. Newman's isolation increased when Deutsche Bank refused to name him to its management board, known as the Vorstand. After Mr. Newman and Mr. Breuer met in Paris last week, the two men agreed to part ways by the end of the month.
Investors were apparently pleased about Mr. Newman's placid departure. Deutsche Bank shares rose 1.73 euros, or 3 percent, to 58.47 euros.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Newman resigned yesterday as chairman of the Bankers Trust Corporation. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (96%); DBK (FRA) (96%); DBK (BIT) (96%); DBETN (JSE) (96%); DBA (ASX) (96%); DB (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (96%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK AG (96%); BANKERS TRUST CORP (94%); WOLFENSOHN & CO (61%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); UNITED STATES (72%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING ACQUISITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); SCANDALS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); BONUS PAY (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; NEWMAN, FRANK MAYO SHATTUCK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



634 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
As U.S. air farescontinue to climb, more corporate travelers are turning to the Internet.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
AS air fares continue their seemingly never-ending climb, more business travelers are going to the Internet to find discounts, a practice that is creating problems for some employers.
According to a survey released yesterday by American Express, the average price paid in April by United States corporations for an airline ticket for business travel reached a seven-year high, partly a result of two across-the-board fare increases by major carriers in the first quarter. As calculated by American Express, the average round-trip fare paid by business travelers in April was $600, up 1 percent from March and up 5 percent from April 1998. 
 "After a year of minimal increases, average air fare tabs are rising faster," said Rusty Carpenter, vice president of American Express Consulting Services Group. "To minimize the damage to travel budgets, companies are turning to a new line of defense: Web-based booking systems. Because they display all kinds of fares, including discounted fares negotiated by corporations, users are more apt to book a lower air fare than when they make reservations over the phone."
Business travel agency giants like American Express and Rosenbluth Travel, as well as companies like Oracle, offer corporations customized Web-based booking systems, which allow employees to make their own reservations using the corporation's negotiated rates and following the parameters of the corporation's travel policy.
Employees of many companies are, however, increasingly working around these systems and going on line themselves to find Internet discounts; the air fares they find are often lower than those negotiated by their employers. In fact, in an informal survey taken last month of members of the National Business Travel Association, which represents 1,300 United States corporate travel managers, almost three-fourths of the managers said this practice was their No. 1 problem, because it interfered with their cost-control efforts.
"The real problem for travel managers is that they've negotiated rates with one or two carriers and they have to produce volume to maintain the fare agreements," said Norman Sherlock, the association's executive director. "At some companies, if an individual goes to the Internet for a fare outside the negotiated rate, the individual won't be reimbursed on his expense account." Mr. Sherlock declined to identify the companies.
Mr. Sherlock also said the association was petitioning United States airlines to put their Internet discounts on computerized reservation systems to provide direct access to them for corporate travel managers and their employees. Displaying these fares on computerized reservation systems would, however, significantly increase demand, which airlines would find unacceptable.
To get around this, Mr. Sherlock said the systems were developing special software that could restrict access to Internet fares to specific groups like corporate travel managers. He said Galileo, the system partly owned by UAL's United Airlines and other carriers, already had created such a program.
Sam Buttrick, aviation analyst for Paine Webber, suggested that softness in United States airlines' domestic revenues -- up only 1 percent in the last eight months, despite a robust economy -- could stem, in part, from greater use by travelers of the Internet. "The Internet has resulted in a shift in buying power and knowledge to consumers and corporations," he said. "Consumers and businesses have much better pricing information now, the best they've ever had."
He also said that although in some cases it might make sense for a company's employees to pay a negotiated rate, even if they find a cheaper fare on line, "in most cases people are better off taking the lowest fare." Customized booking systems that give users Internet access are a good compromise solution in situations like this, he added.
 
Special Fares
With the two busiest travel months starting tomorrow, many of the nation's airlines are offering special E-mail fares, Fourth of July holiday sale fares or double frequent-flier miles for full-fare tickets in coach, business class or first class.
Delta Air Lines started the bonus miles sweepstakes when it offered a 70 percent premium. U S Airways countered with double miles, and AMR's American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Trans World Airlines and United Airlines followed.
The holiday fares, which Delta, American and United are offering, generally require departure this Friday through Sunday and return by Tuesday. In each case, restrictions apply.
Delta's bonus offer was intended to call attention to its 70th anniversary as a passenger airline. On June 17, 1929, a five-passenger Delta monoplane took off from Love Field in Dallas, arriving in Jackson, Miss., five hours later after stops at the Louisiana cities of Shreveport and Monroe. Today Delta averages 2,600 flights a day.
 
On the Town
More than 50 New York City cultural institutions -- including museums, performing arts centers, botanical gardens and zoos -- are offering special one-hour tours that can be slotted into a business traveler's schedule.
Available through Sept. 30 and produced by the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, the tours include a walk through the South Street Seaport district and a visit to WNET, the New York area public television station.
All tours are free, though there is an admission fee to most attractions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CONSULTING SERVICES GROUP LLC (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CULTURE AIR FARES (93%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



635 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Offer On Net Service

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., June 29

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation, the world's largest software maker, is offering new subscribers who sign up for its MSN Internet access service a $400 credit to buy a personal computer.
The offer is available through Staples Inc. stores and Microcenter stores, an MSN customer service representative said. Microcenter is a small consumer-electronics chain based in Ohio. Consumers must sign up for MSN for three years as part of the promotion, according to a Staples salesman. MSN's ISP service costs $19.95 a month. 
 Microsoft's MSN Internet service has struggled to gain new subscribers and catch up to America Online Inc., the world's largest on-line service with more than 17 million members. MSN, which has an estimated 1.5 million to 1.8 million subscribers, is ranked No. 3 behind AT&T's WorldNet Internet access service and America Online, according to the market researcher Forrester Research Inc.
The MSN special "is a decent deal," said Bruce Kasrel, a Forrester analyst. But, he added, "It's not enough to put them over the top."
Mr. Kasrel said the three-year commitment to MSN service may make consumers wary because they do not like to be locked into contracts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); AOL (NYSE) (83%); SPLS (NASDAQ) (72%); FORR (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (72%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; STAPLES INC; MICROCENTER STORES MICROSOFT CORP (96%); AOL INC (83%); STAPLES INC (72%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; STAPLES INC; MICROCENTER STORES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PERSONAL COMPUTERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); RANKINGS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); 

PERSON: BRUCE KASREL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



636 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Scudder to Cut Jobs in Shift to Internet

BYLINE: By Dow Jones 

 BODY:
The Scudder group of no-load mutual funds plans to close offices and lay off up to 120 employees in an effort to improve sales by shifting emphasis to the Internet.
Scudder Kemper Investments told employees in its Scudder no-load funds unit on Monday that the firm would close Scudder retail offices in Boston, New York, San Francisco, Chicago and Boca Raton, Fla., and two of its four customer service telephone centers, in Salem, N.H., and Boston. The layoffs represent about 2 percent of Scudder Kemper's 5,000 employees. 
 In recent years, Scudder Kemper, a unit of the Swiss insurer Zurich Group, has struggled to reconcile its two fund operations: the Scudder funds, which are sold directly to consumers, and the Kemper funds, which are distributed through stockbrokers and other intermediaries.
Many of Scudder's no-load funds have performed poorly, especially its value-oriented funds, which seek to buy undervalued shares. The Scudder and Kemper stock funds averaged a negative 0.28 percent return in the 12 months through March 31, compared with Fidelity Investments' 17.92 percent gain, according to the Kanon Bloch Carre consulting firm in Boston. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ZURICH (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FMR CORP (90%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (58%); KANON BLOCH CARRE & CO INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ZURICH (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BONDS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



637 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latin Growth Weakens, With Joblessness Up

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 29

 BODY:
Despite brighter-than-expected economic performances in Brazil and Mexico, a spate of new economic data around Latin America in recent days suggests that the recession gripping the region will be deeper and more prolonged than most economists had expected.
Plunging regional trade and retail sales, persistently low commodity prices and growing jitters over the financial health of several Latin American governments -- all complicated by fears of an increase in United States interest rates -- have led forecasters to lower their projections of growth and recovery well into the next year. 
 Unemployment is rising in most of the region's countries and consumers are spending less.
Over the last month, the currencies of Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and Venezuela have come under pressure. Colombia devalued the peso on Monday by about 10 percent. Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela have reported lower-than-expected economic growth in recent days. Repeated cuts in interest rates have not turned around the Chilean economy, as many economists had expected.
The Argentine Government's cost of borrowing has sharply increased amid investor concern over an expanding budget deficit.
In Peru, there are growing indications that unpaid debts are jeopardizing the health of several major banks.
"We thought the effects of the Asian crisis, the Russian virus and even the Brazilian crisis would have been milder and shorter," said Jose de Gregorio, an economist at the University of Chile. "With the exceptions of Mexico and Brazil, all the countries are doing worse than expected."
In a report released on Monday, Bear, Stearns lowered its 1999 growth estimates for all countries in the region except Mexico and Brazil. It projected that the gross domestic product for the region this year, adjusted for inflation, would shrink by one-tenth of a percent. Earlier, many economists had forecast 2 or 3 percent expansion.
Bear, Stearns projected 3.5 percent growth for the region in 2000, which is considered a relatively modest rebound in light of the sharp contraction of trade and the flight of foreign investment this year as well as in 1998. "Latin America is under pressure as it prepares for a Fed rate increase in the face of falling prices in much of the world," the report said. "Exchange rate weakness is likely in 1999 for most countries, with sizable devaluations possible in Colombia and Venezuela."
The report predicted that despite a growing demand from the United States for South American goods, exports would fall 5 percent from already-weak 1998 levels.
Mexico has been an exception to the trends, with the Government last week forecasting that the economy would grow 3 percent this year, largely because of expanding trade with the United States. Mexico's ties to the strong American economy have also helped strengthen confidence in the peso -- which settled in New York today at 9.425 to the dollar, up from 9.45. There is confidence, as well, that Mexican borrowing rates will fall further. And stocks have had a stellar year.
Despite Mexico's growth, Bear Stearns estimated that the purchasing power of the region as a whole would contract by $173 billion this year.
Brazil is the anchor of the South American economy, and its performance in recent months has also been better than expected, considering the financial crisis that erupted with devaluation there in January. Interest rates have come down without pumping up inflation, while temporary cuts in consumption taxes have helped increase production and sales in the important auto industry.
In February, economists predicted a contraction in Brazil of up to 4 percent this year; now, Brazilian output is expected to contract by 1 percent. Still, the economists remain cautious.
The deterioration elsewhere has in recent weeks become especially noteworthy in the so-called Southern Cone -- where the Argentine, Chilean and Uruguayan economies are suffering their worst downturns in several years. Chile announced this week that May unemployment had risen to 9.8 percent from 8 percent in April, well above what Government and private economists had predicted.
Argentina recently recalculated the decline in first-quarter output to 3 percent from 2.8 percent, and this week officials acknowledged that unemployment -- now 14.2 percent, or two points above the already steep level last October -- could exceed 15 percent in coming months.
The human costs of this deepening recession in Argentina were suggested in dismal quarterly sales figures reported last week by the nation's supermarkets, with declines of 15 percent or more in such staples as powdered milk, beef and sausage compared with a year earlier. And Argentine car sales have fallen 31 percent in the first five months of the year from the corresponding period of 1998.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Diminished Prospects"
Analysts now expect that most Latin American eco-nomies will grow more slowly than originally projected.
 
Projected annual change in 1999 real gross domestic product
 
Argentina
OLD FORECAST: -2.4%
NEW FORECAST: -2.7
 
Brazil
OLD FORECAST: -2.4
NEW FORECAST: -0.8
 
Chile
OLD FORECAST: +2.0
NEW FORECAST: -0.3
 
Colombia
OLD FORECAST: 0
NEW FORECAST: -2.5
 
Mexico
OLD FORECAST: +3.5
NEW FORECAST: +3.5
 
Peru
OLD FORECAST: +2.5
NEW FORECAST: +1.5
 
Venezuela
OLD FORECAST: -1.0
NEW FORECAST: -4.0
 
Regional average
OLD FORECAST: -0.1
NEW FORECAST: -0.2
 
(Source: Bear Stearns)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); ECUADOR (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS COS

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; MEXICO; BRAZIL (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); MEXICO (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); ECUADOR (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DEVALUATION (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



638 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latin-European Meeting Ends With Vague Commitment

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, June 29

 BODY:
The first summit meeting of Latin American and European nations ended here today with leaders of the world's second- and third-largest trading blocs unable to agree on a timetable or an agenda for negotiations for a free-trade agreement. They opted instead for a much vaguer "strategic partnership" and a commitment to "encouraging the increase and diversification of trade."
In a joint communique, the 15-member European Union and Mercosur, the South American customs union comprising Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, set November 1999 as the start of meetings to consider proposals "regarding the definition of the structure, methodology and calendar" of future talks. But formal negotiations on tariff issues are not scheduled to begin until at least July 2001, and no deadline was set for their conclusion. 
 That modest commitment fell far short of what advocates of stronger commercial ties between the two blocs had sought. At a news conference here this morning, Antonio Guterres, the Prime Minister of Portugal, said he "had hoped the process would have moved further ahead."
The Mercosur group, with 200 million people and a combined economy of more than $1 trillion, has been pushing Europe to grant more access for its agricultural products like meat, wheat, sugar and oil seeds, over the objections of France and a few other countries. The Europeans, in turn, are insisting the South Americans open up their service sectors further and reduce barriers to imports of automobiles and car parts.
With Mercosur and the rest of Latin America already negotiating a free-trade pact with the United States, "it is necessary to work with urgency," said Mr. Guterres, whose Government will assume the presidency of the European Union in January 2000 and has been one of the strongest advocates of closer ties between Europe and Latin America. At a news conference following the formal closing of the summit meeting, Germany's Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, speaking for the European bloc, described the two-day meeting here, attended by leaders of 48 countries, as a "historical landmark." He expressed confidence that both regions would act in concert on some issues during the next round of talks at the World Trade Organization this fall.
Mr. Schroder and the president of Brazil, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, along with his Mexican counterpart, Ernesto Zedillo, all made an effort to deny that one of their goals in meeting here was to outflank the United States or create a counterweight to it. Though not invited to the conference, American officials have praised the meeting as a positive step toward freer world trade.
Mr. Cardoso said Europe and Latin America together were seeking to create "a diversity of centers of decision."
But even on those nontrade issues, some negotiators went home frustrated. The president of Chile, Eduardo Frei, could not persuade Britain and Spain to halt judicial proceedings against Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator of Chile held in Britain pending an extradition request from Spain.
Fidel Castro failed to get the meeting's final declaration to include a condemnation of the Helms-Burton Act, the American law imposing sanctions on foreign investors in Cuba, Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, who met with his Cuban counterpart in the highest-level meetings between those Governments in 40 years, lobbied unsuccessfully on behalf of four political prisoners held by Castro's Government.
Nevertheless, Latin American countries were quick to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the meeting to strengthen trade ties among themselves. In an advance toward economic integration within South America, for instance, the host country, Brazil, reached an agreement with the five members of the Andean Pact to reduce or eliminate tariffs on more than 3,000 products.
In addition, Brazil and Venezuela, which have been working quietly to strengthen their electricity and transport links, reached an agreement today to step up cooperation in the oil and natural gas industries.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Trade Warning to Europe
 WASHINGTON, June 29 (Bloomberg News) -- Stuart Eizenstat, nominated to the Treasury Department's No. 2 job, delivered a strong defense for free trade at his Senate confirmation hearing today and sharply criticized European nations that want to ban imports of genetically modified crops.
"The Europeans have an absolute fear, unfounded by any scientific basis," Mr. Eizenstat, Under Secretary of State for Economics and Trade, told the Senate Finance Committee. "They're talking about a moratorium. This would have a severe impact on our agricultural community. It is, in my mind, the single greatest trade threat we face."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernesto Zedillo, left, the President of Mexico; Fernando Henrique Cardoso, center, the President of Brazil, and Gerhard Schroder, the Chancellor of Germany, waved at photographers in Rio de Janeiro. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (93%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (93%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; MEXICO; BRAZIL; GERMANY; LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE (97%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CHILE (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); AGRICULTURE (65%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); HISTORIC SITES (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES); CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



639 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Medical School Has Hopes Of Hanging Its Shingle on U.S. Soil

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
The idea seemed simple enough.
Ross University, a medical school in the Caribbean island nation of Dominica, would open a branch in the United States -- in Wyoming, to be specific, which lacks a medical school of its own.
Casper, the city chosen for the branch, would get 200 jobs and a projected $10 million a year in economic development. Ross would get a mainland campus for 600 to 1,000 students -- the first for-profit medical school to open in the United States in nearly a century. 
 The plan was embraced by local business leaders and many residents. Gov. Jim Geringer backed the idea, as did the state's Congressional delegation.
But the devil was in the details, and now the project has stalled amid fears that permitting a foreign medical school to operate in the United States would lead to a proliferation of unlicensed and unregulated schools.
The dispute provides a vivid example of the tight hold that American medical schools, their regulators and the American Medical Association maintain on the medical education system. These groups control not only the number of doctors practicing medicine but also which students get an education and where they study.
For 20 years, the Ross campus in Dominica has been educating prospective doctors, many of whom were turned down by medical schools in the United States. The students, primarily Americans, spend about two years in the classroom in Dominica, and complete their medical training with two years of clinical studies at United States hospitals. The total cost is about $84,000, compared with $100,000 for a typical medical school education in this country.
The school's founder and namesake is Robert Ross, an eccentric 80-year-old New Yorker who made his fortune trading commodities like grain and petroleum with the Soviet Union in the 1970's. He established the university in 1979 at the suggestion of an employee whose son had been unable to win admission to a United States medical school. The first class, of 11 students, attended lectures at a motel in Roseau, Dominica's capital.
From such humble beginnings, Ross has grown to serve about 1,700 students. Nine hundred of them study basic science in Dominica; the rest participate in clinical rotations at 40 teaching hospitals in the United States. A separate veterinary school, established in 1983, has about 350 students.
Like other foreign medical schools, Ross is not accredited in the United States. Its only accreditation comes from the medical board in Dominica; graduates must pass rigorous licensing exams to practice medicine in the United States.
The Federation of State Medical Boards of the United States is made up of 69 state and regional medical boards, which license doctors to practice medicine in each state. Most state boards refuse to grant licenses to doctors from unaccredited schools. The group believes that any medical school "existing on United States soil is a U.S. school," said Dale L. Austin, the group's deputy executive vice president.
"A school existing in the U.S. would need to come under accreditation in the U.S." Mr. Austin said.
The United States has 125 accredited medical schools. For more than a decade, the number of students accepted by these schools has remained stable at about 16,000 a year. About 20 percent of the doctors practicing medicine in the United States were educated abroad.
Thus far, no foreign medical school has been able to establish a campus in this country. An effort by Kigezi University in Uganda to establish a branch campus here was recently abandoned after the University of Washington Medical School refused to provide space.
The Liaison Committee on Medical Education, a regulatory agency sponsored by the A.M.A. and the Association of American Medical Colleges that accredits United States medical schools, does not accredit foreign schools.
For United States medical education officials, the solution to the Ross problem is simple. The university should move its charter from Dominica to the United States and seek accreditation as a domestic school.
"We support the existing accreditation system," said Wendy Curran, executive director of the Wyoming Medical Society. "How do we address such medical education that plans to operate outside of the existing quality standards?"
The American Medical Association concurs. "Any medical school -- whether in Casper, Wyo., or anywhere else in the country -- needs to provide assurances that the education of its students is comparable to the 125 established medical schools now accredited in the U.S.," the association said in a statement. Last week, at its annual meeting in Chicago, it voted to warn state medical societies that branch campuses of foreign medical schools could not be accredited.
But Mr. Ross refuses to move his school and seek domestic accreditation on the ground that the university provides a lift for the economy of Dominica. And despite the A.M.A.'s opposition, Ross's administrators and its supporters in Wyoming are moving ahead with their plans.
Mr. Ross says he is willing to put $35 million of his own money into the venture. The Casper Area Economic Development Alliance has bought 32 acres of land for the school; 60 additional acres have been donated. Plans call for 600 to 1,000 students to be enrolled for four semesters of basic medical education. A fifth semester, before clinical rotations, would be spent in Dominica.
"We figured it would be a pretty controversial process," said George B. Howley, president of the alliance. But, he added, "we're all excited about bringing a medical school to Casper."
But as Mr. Ross made clear in a recent interview, nothing is certain. "Wyoming students must have the same privileges as if they attended the whole five semesters in Dominica," he said. "If I cannot get those assurances, I am going to abort the deal."
"We've been fighting the establishment for 20 years," he went on. "We've come a long way, but I'm not going to fight city hall again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ross University campus in Dominca has been operating for 20 years. Many of its medical students, most of whom are Americans, were turned down by accredited medical schools in the United States. "We've been fighting the establishment for 20 years," says Robert Ross, a New Yorker who founded a medical school in Dominica. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Map of Wyoming showing location of the proposed school site: Ross University hopes to open a campus in Casper, Wyo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); DOMINICA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); 

CITY: CASPER, WY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ROSS UNIVERSITY ROSS UNIVERSITY (81%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSS UNIVERSITY AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICA; CASPER (WYOMING); UNITED STATES (99%); DOMINICA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); WYOMING, USA (94%); CASPER, WY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (58%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R; GERINGER, JIM (GOV) CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



640 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Help Defeat L.I. Bill Banning Street Job Markets

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., June 29

 BODY:
To the cheers and applause of nearly 100 Latino immigrant workers and their families, the Suffolk County Legislature rejected a bill today that would have banned day laborers from the roadside job markets they use to find work.
"It was a solid victory for us and a wonderful way for the workers to discover how democracy works," said the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, of the Brookville Reformed Church, who helped the immigrants oppose the legislation. The vote was 7 to 4, with two abstentions. 
 Immigrant workers, chiefly from Central America and Mexico, have made a practice of gathering on street corners and parking lots between 6 and 8 A.M., where they are hired for the day by landscapers, painters and construction contractors needing day laborers.
The bill was proposed by Legislator Joseph Caracappa of Selden chiefly as a traffic safety measure. He and other supporters contended that the gatherings, sometimes numbering scores of workers, created traffic hazards and disrupted the flow of school buses and other traffic in commercial areas.
Mr. Ramirez, one of three members of the public who spoke in opposition, told the legislators: "This is a county that has always welcomed immigrants. This bill would basically prevent these new immigrants from getting work. They are already the poorest of the poor. It should not be against the law to work."
The workers and some of their children arrived about 8 A.M. aboard buses chartered by Mr. Ramirez and the Workplace Project, an advocacy center in Hempstead, in Nassau County, that fights immigrant issues on Long Island. They carried signs saying "Don't Outlaw Work" and "Traffic Is No Excuse for Unjust Laws" and picketed outside the county center before attending the discussion.
One worker who spoke before the Legislature was a Mexican day laborer who identified himself only as Antonio because he feared that he might be deported. Through a translator, he said he needed to work to support his six children and wife back in Mexico.
The session was also attended by about 20 supporters of the bill, some of whom spoke in favor of the bill, saying it would improve highway safety and protect their "quality of life." The bill had bipartisan support when it was proposed several months ago, but was defeated by bipartisan opposition today. The legislators had been scheduled to vote on the proposal last month, but public opposition had grown enough to force it to be pulled off the agenda and rewritten more narrowly.
After today's defeat, Mr. Caracappa angrily told the other legislators that if someone was killed in a traffic accident as a result of the bill's failure, "their blood will be on your hands." His supporters cheered.
The bill stated that commercial parking areas in the county were for "the benefit of the public, clients, customers, members and occupants of adjoining commercial premises." Using the areas and county roadways "for the solicitation of employment or business in unauthorized locations results in interference with the intended use of the parking area and roadways," the bill said.
The bill would have immediately made it unlawful to hire day laborers at roadside locations from 5 A.M. to 11 A.M., punishable by fines of up to $1,500 and by sentences of up to three months in jail.
Those who wrote the measure believed it would pass a constitutional test, said Paul Sabatino, chief counsel for the Legislature. Proponents were aware that the United States Supreme Court recently struck down a Chicago antiloitering law on the ground that it gave police too much discretion to sweep up innocent people, Mr. Sabatino said, but the Caracappa bill was specific about the activity it outlawed, he added.
Opponents, however, insisted that the law had nothing to do with traffic safety and was racist in intent.
Nadia Marin-Molina, a lawyer and executive director of the Workplace Project, said in an interview, "Such a law would tear apart families, destroy the local economy and undermine the Constitution of the United States."
 After the vote, Mr. Ramirez said in an interview he was pleased that the immigrants had overcome fears of speaking out in a public forum. "Imagine how amazing all this is to these newcomers to America," he said. "This is something they and their children will never forget."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside the Suffolk Legislature building, the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez and Latino day laborers and their families celebrated their victory yesterday. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HISPANIC-AMERICANS IMMIGRATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); DEPORTATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T ALLAN B RAMIREZ (80%); JOSEPH CARACAPPA (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



641 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Share Prices Rise Yet Again As Fed Decision Is Awaited

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks staged another broad advance yesterday as the Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved close to their record highs.
Despite the solid gains, traders said the increase in prices appeared to have more to do with technical adjustments to portfolios than a shift in investor sentiment. 
 The main market gauges have been under pressure for weeks as high valuations and the threat of a series of interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve have combined to sow seeds of uncertainty.
The Fed governors began two days of meetings yesterday and will announce the outcome this afternoon. The central bank is widely expected to raise rates by one-quarter of a percentage point.
One school of thought holds that with few signs of inflation, the Fed will need to raise interest rates only once this year. But there is a real possibility that this could be the first in a series of moves.
At the end of last week, many had expected trading activity to remain light and convictionless until the Fed disclosed its intentions.
That did not happen.
"It's counterintuitive," Bob Gasser, head of United States equity trading at J. P. Morgan Securities, said of the recent rise in prices. "With valuations where they are and on the eve of what could be more than one increase in interest rates by the Fed, I don't understand."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose for the third consecutive session yesterday, gaining 160.20 points, or 1.5 percent, to 10,815.35.
Chevron, which was raised to a "buy" by analysts at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, led the blue-chip index higher along with United Technologies and General Electric.
Broader market averages also did well. The S.& P. 500 surged 20.10 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,351.45, just 16.11 points below its high, reached on May 13. Nasdaq gained 39.67, or 1.5 percent, to 2,642.11; the index is now just 9.94 points below its high on April 26.
Smaller-company stocks continued what has been a strong quarter-long rally. The Russell 2000 index gained 5.47 points, or 1.2 percent, to 454.08.
Trading volume was much higher than in recent sessions.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 820 million shares changed hands. Volume on the Nasdaq market was 952 million shares.
Still, Mr. Gasser and other traders said much of the activity centered on the reconstruction of various market indexes, including the S.& P. 500 and the Russell 2000.
Airtouch Communications, which has been acquired by Vodaphone and will be leaving the S.& P. 500 index today, and Best Buy, which is replacing it, were heavily traded stocks. Airtouch fell 3 11/32, to 107 21/32. Best Buy rose 2 55/128, to 65 15/128.
And some 350 issues, including many Internet stocks, have seen their market capitalizations expand to the point that they no longer qualify to be included in the Russell 2000 index. They will be replaced by others whose market capitalizations fall within a $1.4 billion ceiling and a $180 million floor.
"We spent a lot of time with Airtouch and Best Buy," Mr. Gasser said. "All told, I spent about 90 percent of my time on these index reconfigurations."
Michael Clark, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston, said, "At the end of the day you could see the rebalancing taking place."
"But you don't want to be a hero," at this juncture, he added. "What you really want to see is what the Fed does and how the market reacts to early second-quarter earnings reports. The next couple of weeks will be very important."
Still, there were some fundamental reasons for optimism.
A number of positive announcements from Asian countries, including Japan and South Korea, helped to bolster stocks of companies that do a lot of business in the region, like United Technologies, General Electric, Applied Materials and Intel.
United Technologies, which derived about 17 percent of its sales from Asia last year, gained 3 3/4, to 68 15/16. General Electric rose 3 1/2, to 109 11/16.
Applied Materials, the world's leading maker of semiconductor equipment, said its sales in Southeast Asia might double this year. The stock rose 2 3/4, to 69 1/8. And Intel gained 2 1/4, to 59 1/4.
Drug stocks, which have been the worst-performing group this quarter, regained some ground yesterday.
Pfizer rose 3 13/16, to 104 7/8. Warner-Lambert shot up 4 3/8, to 67 1/8. And Merck gained 1 7/16, to 71 1/2.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 By Bloomberg News
 Bond prices rose yesterday as yields neared their highest levels in 19 months and a housing report that was weaker than expected lured investors, a day before the Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates to guard against inflation.
"We're at pretty decent yield levels," said Paul Corbin, who invests $600 million of bonds for Brown Investment Advisory and Trust Company in Baltimore. "We'll probably be buying." Mr. Corbin said he was favoring bonds issued by companies and agencies like Fannie Mae, with maturities from 7 to 10 years.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 12/32, to 88 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.06 percent from 6.09 percent on Monday.
Bonds climbed as the Government reported a 5.1 percent drop in sales of new homes in May from April, an indication that higher interest rates are curbing economic growth, said Mitchell Stapley, who oversees $3 billion of bonds at the Kent Funds in Grand Rapids, Mich.
Still, growth is fast enough to justify at least one Fed rate increase, analysts say. The vigor of the economy was highlighted in a separate release today that showed consumer confidence rose to its highest level in more than three decades.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data); Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BOB GASSER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



642 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Court Sentences Kurdish Rebel Leader to Death

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, June 29

 BODY:
A Turkish security court today sentenced the Kurdish rebel leader, Abdullah Ocalan, to death for his 15-year campaign against the Turkish Army.
Because of the violence that followed Mr. Ocalan's arrest in February, the sentence set off concerns for security around the country and beyond. But there were no reports of violent reaction either in Turkey, where the police were on high alert, or elsewhere. Kurds staged peaceful protests in Bonn, Moscow, The Hague, Paris and other European cities. Others scuffled with the police in Rome and Nicosia, Cyprus. 
 Foreign governments, including the United States, appealed for calm and urged Turkey not to carry out the sentence. Mr. Ocalan's rebel group said it had no plans to order retaliation for the verdict because the Turkish state "still has the power to amend this."
The Kurds in southeastern Turkey began their armed struggle for an independent state 15 years ago, rebelling against Turkey's attempts to suppress their language and culture. Both sides have been accused of atrocities during the war.
The chief of the three-judge panel that pronounced the sentence, Turgut Okyay, said Mr. Ocalan's fighters had "murdered thousands of innocent people, among them babies, children, women and the elderly."
"Ocalan and the organization he ruled carried out terrorist actions aimed at dividing the state," Mr. Okyay said. "His activities constitute a serious, immediate and great danger to the country."
During his trial on the prison island of Imrali, Mr. Ocalan confessed his responsibility for killings but said he had changed his views and is ready to make peace. He said that if his life is spared and the Government grants greater cultural freedom to Kurds, he would ask his followers to give up their guerrilla campaign. But he also warned that if he is hanged the conflict will grow. He said 5,000 of his followers were ready to stage suicide attacks.
"I do not accept this charge of treason," he said in a brief statement before the sentencing. "I believe I have struggled for the unity of this land and for a free life."
Mr. Ocalan, 50, showed no reaction as he was sentenced. Relatives of Turkish war victims who were in the courtroom, together with their lawyers, whooped for joy and began singing the national anthem. Mr. Ocalan rose to his feet, smiled wanly, and left the courtroom.
Conviction of treason carries a mandatory death sentence in Turkey, so the verdict was widely expected. A long appeals process may lie ahead. The case will automatically go to a higher court for review, and if the sentence is upheld there, both Parliament and President Suleyman Demirel must approve it. Military commanders may be able to influence the final decision.
Mr. Ocalan is also expected to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, whose jurisdiction Turkey has accepted in the past. Such appeals can take a year or longer.
The political wing of Mr. Ocalan's party, the Kurdistan Workers Party, issued a statement in Vienna after the verdict saying that party leaders would "look at this new development from all sides, discuss it, and then implement the strategy and actions as soon as possible."
The group "has regarded this process as illegitimate from the beginning," the statement said. "With this ruling, the Turkish side has ignored the call by the Kurdish side for a peaceful settlement of the war."
Turkish leaders say that the group has served as a tool for foreign powers seeking to divide Turkey. They have repeatedly refused to consider its cease-fire proposals.
In southeastern Turkey, however, many Kurds openly express admiration for Mr. Ocalan and his movement. They complain about their region's low level of economic development and what they perceive as the Government's refusal to recognize their ethnic rights. Those sentiments helped Mr. Ocalan to build his movement into one of the world's most potent guerrilla forces.
They have achieved some victories. When the Kurds took up arms against the Turks, their language was banned on the streets, their music was not allowed to be played and Kurdish-language education was forbidden. Today, Kurdish conversation and music can be heard but the language is still not taught.
During his trial Mr. Ocalan acknowledged that his fighters have carried out all the attacks they were accused of and described some of their activities as "the mistakes of people with a peasant mentality."
Foreign governments and human rights advocates say Turkish security forces burned several thousand villages, tortured Kurds, and supported death squads that killed many suspected Kurdish nationalists.
At the end of last year, Mr. Demirel said that since the armed conflict began in 1984, it had killed 5,302 civilians, 5,555 soldiers and security officers, and 23,638 rebels.
In the days after Mr. Ocalan's capture last February in Kenya, where he had been living under the protection of Greek diplomats, Kurds in Turkey and in many European cities erupted in violent anger. After the death sentence was pronounced today, the German Interior Minister, Otto Schily, urged the 2 million Kurds living there to remain calm.
Comments by American officials reflected a combination of sympathy for the Turks and concern about their treatment of Mr. Ocalan. A White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart, called Mr. Ocalan "an international terrorist who should be brought to justice."
European governments strongly urged that the death sentence not be carried out. Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema of Italy, which denied Mr. Ocalan asylum, warned Turkey against "distancing itself from Europe" and said, "One cannot even think of carrying out this sentence." President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic also said he opposed executing Mr. Ocalan.
The Council of Europe, which is dedicated to promoting democracy and human rights on the continent, said none of its 41 member states had executed a prisoner in the last two years, and called upon Turkey, which is a member, to extend the unofficial moratorium on executions that has been in force here since 1984.
"Now there seem to be real opportunities to bring an end to the terrorist actions in the southeast part of Turkey and to establish peace," the council said in a statement.
The council said Mr. Ocalan had been given a fair trial, but the private human rights group Amnesty International disagreed, saying the trial "violated both national law and international standards." The chief human rights officer of the United Nations, Mary Robinson, said "lack of due process" made the verdict "particularly disquieting."
Public opinion in Turkey still seems heavily favorable to carrying out the death sentence. It is shaped in part by relatives of Turkish war victims.
Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit opposes the death penalty on principle, but his main coalition partner, Devlet Bahceli, whose party includes many militant nationalists, has said he will do all he can to assure Mr. Ocalan's execution.
In recent days various intellectuals, including some close to the Government, have been urging that Mr. Ocalan's life be spared. A former Turkish Ambassador to the United States, Sukru Elekdag, said Turkey should use this "historic opportunity" to end the war by commuting the death sentence and recognizing "Kurdish identity."
One prominent newspaper columnist wrote, "Let us not hang him because he will then be a symbol; because Turkey will then be isolated; because a democratic country does not act with vengeance; because terror will then never end; and because Turkey, to remain part of the democratic world, must realize that Kurds are living on their soil and respect their demand to protect their identity."
But Yilidrim Akbulut, the Speaker of the Parliament, reflected what may be the view of many Government leaders.
"This was definitely the necessary punishment," Mr. Akbulut said soon after the verdict was announced. "Those who practice terror must pay the price."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan was sentenced to death for his 15-year war against the Turkish Army, mothers of soldiers killed in the conflict celebrated yesterday in Mudanya, Turkey. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CYPRUS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; BONN (GERMANY); MOSCOW (RUSSIA); PARIS (FRANCE); ROME (ITALY); NICOSIA (CYPRUS); TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CYPRUS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ITALY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; KURDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); SENTENCING (90%); VERDICTS (89%); TREASON (89%); APPEALS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); ARMIES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); PRISONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); JUDGES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; OCALAN, ABDULLAH ABDULLAH OCALAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



643 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Neighbors Split Over Fate of Prison Amid Brownstones

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
For years, the homeowners of Mount Morris Park, a brownstone-filled historic area in central Harlem, have agitated for the closing of a women's prison in their midst. So they were elated when the budget proposal put forth by Gov. George E. Pataki in January said that the prison would be closed and its residents transferred.
The Mount Morris Park Community Improvement Association, which led the lobbying effort, says that closing the prison is the last piece in the renaissance of the area, where the city is selling off countless abandoned brownstones to spur their rehabilitation. 
 But as budget negotiations in Albany continue, the prison's fate is once again unclear. A coalition of groups that includes some Harlem residents, corrections officers and advocates of the incarcerated have been lobbying the Assembly to keep the prison open. Apparently, they have had some success: in its budget proposal, the Assembly has included operating funds for the prison.
At war are Harlem's competing images of itself. Is it a nascent middle- and even upper-middle-class community that has the right to protect its real estate values and that for too long has been overburdened with social service buildings? Or is it a compassionate community that should not cast out its wayward daughters, and that, like many upstate towns, should welcome the economic benefits of a prison?
The prison, the Parkside Correctional Facility, occupies a narrow brick building at No. 10 Mount Morris Park West. It has 184 beds but is the only totally female work-release prison in the state. Many of the women do not stay there full time, or at all, but report there regularly.
Mike Houston, a spokesman for the state's Department of Correctional Services, said that the prison was being proposed for closing as part of the Governor's effort to trim the number of work-release inmates statewide. He said the women would be transferred to Bayview, another women's center, in Chelsea.
The closing, he said, will save the state $1.4 million. And a spokeswoman for the Governor said he remained committed to shutting the Parkside prison.
The prison abuts a row of late 1800's brownstones that have fallen into such disrepair that they have been called "the Ruins." They are literally shells of the beautiful neo-classical and French Renaissance row houses they once were.
The state and community groups are moving forward with a plan to restore the facades of the buildings and turn them into two- and three-bedroom condominiums, with prices starting at $155,000.
Shelly Cleary, the project director of Community Preservation Corporation Resources, one of the developers, said that ground would probably be broken in the fall.
For Conrad Neblett, an entertainer and producer who has lived in Mount Morris Park for nine years, keeping Parkside on the block defies logic. "Who would buy a condominium next to a prison?" he asked, adding that he also did not like the neighborhood's children looking out their windows to see a prison.
But the prison has its proponents, including an association of black corrections officers worried about the loss of jobs in the region and some residents who feel safer with a prison in their midst.
Mishi Faruqee, the director of the Women in Prison Project for the Correctional Association of New York, which has been lobbying the Assembly, said that Bayview, where the women would be transferred, was already at capacity. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PARKSIDE CORRECTION FACILITY COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKSIDE CORRECTION FACILITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); MOUNT MORRIS PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS PRISONS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



644 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Vexing Party, Clinton Backs Year 2000 Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Infuriating many Democrats, the White House today reached a basic agreement with Republicans in Congress on legislation to limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer breakdowns.
Republican leaders said all the main points had been settled and that they hoped Congress would clear the measure for the President's signature this week. The White House agreed that only technical language remained to be worked out. 
 The agreement, aggressively promoted by the computer industry and other business interests and opposed by trial lawyers and consumer groups, generally follows the lines of the bill approved by the Senate two weeks ago. Most Democrats voted against that bill, and President Clinton promised at the time to veto it.
A White House spokesman said relatively minor changes enabled the President to approve the agreement.
As described by lawmakers from both parties, it would set a ceiling on punitive damages against small companies, give all companies a grace period to fix breakdowns before they could be sued, sharply limit class-action suits involving many plaintiffs and protect wealthy companies against being held responsible for computer failures caused by poorer ones.
Many angry Democrats in the Senate and House said the White House had encouraged them to cast a politically risky vote against the bill and then sold them out. "This is a closed-door deal that will hurt consumers," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. "Maybe we can dare hope that this will be the last case of triangulation of the 20th century."
"Triangulation" is a term coined by Dick Morris, President Clinton's former political adviser, to mean that the President should not stand with Democrats or Republicans but at points above or between them. Democrats use it nowadays to express their irritation when Mr. Clinton does not follow the party line.
What is called the Y2K problem results from the longtime reliance of computer programs on only the last two digits of a year. When confronted by 00, some computers, software and electronically controlled machinery that have not been updated might misinterpret it as 1900 rather than 2000, substitute another year or simply freeze. A company could suffer financial loss, for example, if its computers broke down and it lost its payroll and billing records.
These are the main aspects of the legislation:
*Companies with fewer than 50 employees could not be assessed more than $250,000 in punitive damages.
*All companies would be given 90 days to fix a problem from the time they were notified before they could be sued.
*No more than 100 plaintiffs could be involved in a class-action suit, and no more than $10 million in damages could be sought.
*Class-action suits would be diverted from state courts to Federal courts, making them more expensive and burdensome for plaintiffs.
*All companies responsible for a computer failure would share the legal liability, and large, wealthy companies could not be forced to pay more than a portion of the damages caused by less affluent or bankrupt businesses.
The central purpose of the measure is to prevent frivolous lawsuits. But critics said there were insufficient protections for consumers who suffered financial loss because of computer failures.
A White House spokesman said President Clinton insisted that the measure be confined to Year 2000 computer problems and did not involve general tort reform.
In addition, the spokesman said small changes involving class-action suits and the proportional liability provisions convinced the President that the bill was worthwhile.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, was instrumental in working out the deal. Insurance companies in Connecticut are especially interested in limiting lawsuits.
Business interests were gleeful. Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which made the legislation its top lobbying priority of the year, called it "a watershed achievement for business and the American economy."
But groups representing consumers were critical. When computer problems develop, "the public is going to be very angry, and small businesses are going to be the most affected," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen.
Complicating the work on the bill all year has been the desire of both parties to win the political and financial support of wealthy individuals and companies in the computer industry.
A Republican strategist in Congress said his party was not willing to give much in the negotiations because the President was over a barrel: If he vetoed the bill, it would have hurt Vice President Al Gore specifically and Democrats generally in their quest for support in Silicon Valley. By accepting the agreement, in this view, the President gave Republicans what they wanted.
A Democratic strategist added another element. He said Vice President Gore, as he begins his campaign for the Presidency, was eager to rid himself of the taint of financial support from trial lawyers.
The conflict between trial lawyers, who are among Democrats' biggest campaign contributors, and business interests, which are the Republicans' biggest donors, has been a thread running through legislative battles for the last several years. Among other issues, it has arisen on product liability legislation, antismoking measures and bills to regulate managed-care health plans. The Democratic strategist said that for Mr. Gore, the money from the trial lawyers was probably not worth the criticism he faced for taking funds from an unpopular source. But that may not be the case, the strategist said, for Democrats in Congress.
In a careful statement tonight, Mark S. Mandell, president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, said, "It is positive that this unique response to a unique situation will be law for only three years and that the legal rights of anyone who suffers a physical injury are preserved." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DAMAGES (89%); MILLENNIUM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



645 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: $72 BILLION DEAL OF PHONE GIANTS CLEARS BIG HURDLE

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Federal officials said today that they had tentatively agreed to approve the $72 billion acquisition of the Ameritech Corporation by SBC Communications Inc. provided that the new company not only open its market to competition but also offer local telephone service in 30 cities outside its existing region.
Officials said the unusual conditions were intended to drive down phone bills by encouraging competition in markets that have been dominated by one local phone company. SBC and Ameritech executives said today that regulators would impose stiff financial penalties if the new company, which will be the nation's largest local telephone company, failed to offer residential and business telephone service in cities like Miami, Seattle and Boston within 12 months and New York, Washington and Phoenix within 18 months. 
 Although SBC said soon after the merger was announced that it intended to enter those cities, where Federal officials hope it will become a giant competitor, the regulatory agreement speeds up its time frame. It also sets penalties as high as $2.2 billion for the company's failure to offer local telephone service outside its existing territory or sufficiently open its markets to competing phone companies.
The agreement reflects a fundamental shift in the approach regulators have taken in reviewing large mergers such as the Ameritech-SBC deal, which once completed will create a company with about 55 million local phone lines in 13 states, cutting a swath from Michigan to Texas and including Connecticut and California. Regulators have traditionally responded to such proposed corporate behemoths by blocking the deals or requiring divestitures, not expansions, of business units.
Officials acknowledged that they agreed to the 28 conditions in the deal in part because of the heavy criticism of their approval of the merger of Bell Atlantic and Nynex two years ago, a deal that did not have such conditions and that consumer groups say has not significantly increased competition or lowered prices.
The officials also said that the proposed agreement was an effort to fix the unexpected shortcomings of a three-year-old law that was intended to deregulate the telecommunications industry and foster competition but has been unable to force the regional Bells to open their markets. Instead, the law has largely encouraged a wave of corporate mergers and a heavy consolidation of the industry that has raised concerns among some consumer groups.
The tentative accord announced today is the product of three months of intensive negotiations between lawyers for the companies and the staff of the Federal Communications Commission, which were ordered by William E. Kennard, the agency's chairman, to find ways to encourage competition in the local telephone markets. The agency will now give competitors and the public about a month to comment on the proposal before a final vote is taken by the commissioners. State regulators in Indiana and Illinois will also be passing judgment on the acquisition before it can be closed.
Mr. Kennard applauded the work of the staff and indicated that he would most probably approve the deal. It would be highly unusual for a majority of the five commissioners, who were kept apprised of the negotiations, to reject the agreement.
"I am encouraged by SBC and Ameritech's commitment to open their markets to competition and their agreement to suffer stiff penalities if they do not," Mr. Kennard said. "Our paramount goal must be to hasten the day when consumers enjoy the benefits of more competition in local and long-distance phone service."
Executives at the two companies said that they were pleased to have resolved the issues and hoped to be able to complete the merger soon.
"It's fair to say that the merger is now in the home stretch," said James D. Ellis, senior executive vice president and general counsel of SBC. "The conditions are perhaps some of the most wide ranging that any company has ever submitted to the F.C.C. in order to win approval of this type of transaction. They answer fully the concerns that Chairman Kennard first raised last April. They are tough, they are fair and they are certainly enforceable."
But some consumer groups that had urged the F.C.C. to block the proposed acquisition criticized the accord reached today and said it held little hope of actually increasing competition, particularly given the industry's history.
"Rather than block consolidation among monopolies and forcing the companies in the marketplace, we have a massive expansion of monopoly with an enormously complicated set of conditions that will take an army to police," said Gene Kimmelman, the co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. "We've never had local telephone competition, and to allow these companies to consolidate is an enormous public policy risk, and I believe a mistaken one."
Mr. Kimmelman also said that to the extent that SBC actually served new cities, it made economic sense for the company to offer service only to the high end of the market, mostly businesses and residents now paying top rates.
"It defies the economic realities of the market that SBC would sign onto this deal at any significant cost to it," he said.
While other regional Bell and local exchange companies did not criticize the proposed agreement today, saying they needed time to study it, analysts said they expected it would not face serious obstacles.
"This is a win-win for almost everybody involved," said Scott Cleland, an analyst at the Legg Mason Precursor Group. "You will not see a lot of people trashing this because it has a little bit for everybody. The F.C.C. gets a host of pro-competitive commitments and a way to enforce them with stiff penalties. The competitors get a lot of their favorite pet rocks that they have long sought. And SBC gets approval of its merger and it gets to control its own destiny."
Bob Atkinson, the lead Government lawyer who negotiated the conditions, described them today as "substantial and unprecedented" and said they would "create irreversible market competition."
Mr. Atkinson said that the agreement would be enforced by an independent auditor approved by the F.C.C. and paid for by SBC, formerly Southwestern Bell. Ameritech, based in Chicago, was originally formed by the joining of Bell companies in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin.
The proposed agreement requires SBC, based in San Antonio, to offer competitors in its territory steep promotional discounts of up to 32 percent for reselling their services and 25 percent for leasing the use of wires that run from SBC's switching centers to customers' homes. It also requires that SBC establish a separate corporate affiliate for offering high-speed Internet service on telephone lines. The affiliate would be largely independent of SBC and would have to be treated like any competitor of SBC.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Asked to Do More"
To gain approval for their merger, SBC Communications and Ameritech have agreed to expand their service into 30 more markets within the next 30 months. Some of the markets have yet to be decided and, for most, the time frame is uncertain, but here are the markets under consideration.
 
Seattle-Bellevue-Everett
Portland-Vancouver
Las Vegas
Phoenix-Mesa
Salt Lake City-Ogden
Boulder-Longmont
Denver
Minneapolis-St. Paul
Philadelphia
Washington, D.C.
Buffalo-Niagara Falls
Pittsburgh
Cincinnati
New Orleans
Nashville
Louisville
Albany-Schenectady-Troy
New York City
Boston
Nassau-Suffolk
Baltimore
Greensboro-Winston-Salem-High Point
Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill
Charlotte-Gastonia-Rock Hill
Atlanta
Orlando
Fort Lauderdale
Miami
Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater
 
Map hightlights current SBC service areas and current Ameritech service areas.
 
(Source: SBC Communications)(pg. A31)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%); OREGON, USA (59%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (76%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (74%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (71%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC; AMERITECH CORP AT&T INC (98%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC; AMERITECH CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%); OREGON, USA (59%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (76%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (74%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (71%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); MERGERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); DIVESTITURES (72%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN WILLIAM E KENNARD (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



646 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Phone Merger Approved, Subject to Unusual Rules
Federal officials tentatively approved the $72 billion acquisition of Ameritech by SBC Communications provided that the new company not only open its market to competition but also offer local telephone service in 30 cities outside its existing region.
Officials said the unusual regulatory approach for approving the acquisition was intended to drive down phone bills by encouraging competition in markets that have been dominated by one phone company. SBC and Ameritech executives said that regulators would impose stiff financial penalties if the new company failed to offer residential and business telephone service. Page A1. 

Agreement Near on Year 2000 Suits
The White House and Republicans in Congress have agreed on legislation to limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer breakdowns. The President is expected to sign the measure this week. A1.
 
Energy East Seen in Deal for CTG
In a move signaling further consolidation in a deregulated utility industry, Energy East is expected to announce that it is buying CTG Resources of Hartford, the holding company for Connecticut Natural Gas, for about $355 million in stock and cash, people close to the talks said. Shares of CTG Resources rose $1.625, to $35.625. C2.
 
China.com Links Hot Concepts
China.com combines two of the decade's hottest investment concepts -- China and the Internet -- in a single stock offering. While both have lost some luster among investors in recent weeks, China.com seems convinced that putting them together will prove irresistible. The company, based in Hong Kong, plans to raise $56.3 million through an initial public offering on Nasdaq. Market Place. C11.
 
Bankers Trust Chairman Resigns
Frank Newman resigned as chairman of Bankers Trust, apparently isolated and powerless after Deutsche Bank acquired his company for $10 billion. C4.
 
Nasdaq and S.& P. 500 Near Highs
Stocks staged a broad advance as the Nasdaq composite index and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved close to their record highs. The S.& P. 500 surged 20.10 points, to 1,351.45, and Nasdaq gained 39.67 points, to 2,642.11. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 160.20 points, to 10,815.35. C12.
 
Summit Meeting Ends Without Deal
The first summit meeting of Latin American and European nations ended with leaders of the world's second- and third-largest trading blocs unable to agree on a timetable or an agenda for talks for a free-trade pact. C4.
 
CMGI to Buy a Stake in Alta Vista
CMGI, the Internet venture capital company, will buy a majority stake in Compaq Computer's Alta Vista Internet search engine business for $2.03 billion in stock. C7.
 
Marketing Executive for Thompson
J. Walter Thompson is naming a high-profile executive to a new post with duties that include marketing the agency itself. Mary Baglivo, 41, who unexpectedly announced last month that she would resign as chief executive at Euro RSCG Tatham in Chicago for personal reasons and return with her family to the East Coast, will join Thompson, effective Sept. 1, as executive vice president and chief marketing officer-U.S.A. Stuart Elliott: Advertising C8.
 
Consumer Confidence Index Rises
Consumer confidence rose in June to the highest level in more than three decades. The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence rose to 138.4 from 137.7 in May. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,815.35, up 160.20
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.06%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 121.06 yen, down 0.15
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Leading Indicators
 May figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.2%
 
Graph tracks share price of CTG Resources, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (96%); JWT (60%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); ALTA VISTA CMGI (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALTA VISTA CMGI (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); TELEPHONE RATES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); NATURAL GAS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



647 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Group Finds a Way to Offer A Hepatitis C Drug for Less

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY 

 BODY:
Advocates for people with hepatitis C have found a way for patients to bypass a major drug company and buy an expensive medication, Ribavirin, at far below the usual price.
Starting July 9, when the patent on Ribavirin for use against hepatitis C expires, patients will be able to order the drug from a pharmacy in Pittsburgh, according to the Hepatitis C Action and Advocacy Coalition, a patients' group based in San Francisco. 
 The strategy, which seems to have taken both the Food and Drug Administration and the drug industry by surprise, is carefully constructed to navigate the nation's drug approval and patent laws. It involves an overseas manufacturer, an importer in the United States and the drugstore in Pittsburgh known as a compounding pharmacy, where pharmacists will hand-pack imported Ribavirin powder into capsules to fill individual prescriptions.
F.D.A. officials said yesterday that they were looking into the plan, but would probably not try to stop it unless it was determined to be unsafe.
Like old-fashioned drugstores, the compounding pharmacies prepare drug mixtures and doses that differ from what is commercially available. They are not permitted to copy commercially available products, but may make versions of them that vary one or more ingredients according to a doctor's prescription.
The drug now at issue, Ribavirin, is approved to treat hepatitis C only in combination with another drug, Intron A. Alone, Ribavirin has no effect on the disease. Although the combination appears to eliminate the virus in only 40 percent to 45 percent of patients, it is the best treatment developed so far for the disease, which kills 10,000 Americans year and is the leading cause of liver transplants. About four million people in the United States are thought to be infected. The virus is spread mainly by contaminated needles and other exposure to infected blood.
The only way that patients can buy Ribavirin is as part of a combination product, Rebetron, sold only by the Schering-Plough Corporation of Madison, N.J. Rebetron includes Ribavirin and Intron A, a brand of interferon made exclusively by Schering-Plough. Patients take it for six months or a year, with a year of treatment costing $15,600 to $17,300, or $1,300 to $1,440 a month.
When Rebetron was approved in June 1998, it was hailed as a major advance, because it worked far better than the previous treatment, interferon alone. But some patients' enthusiasm withered when they found out that Schering-Plough had "bundled" the two drugs into a kit and would not sell them separately.
In the year since its approval, 293,000 prescriptions for Rebetron have been filled, bringing in $214 million for Schering-Plough, according to IMS Health, a health care information company in Plymouth Meeting, Pa.
The bundling of Rebetron provoked bitterness because three other companies also make interferon, and some patients who had trouble tolerating the side effects of Intron A wanted to try their luck combining Ribavirin with another brand.
Now, starting on July 9, patients will be able to buy Ribavirin alone for $225 a month, from Fisher's Specialty Pharmacy Services, in Pittsburgh. That price is about 80 percent less than what Schering-Plough's version costs, based on subtracting the price of Intron A from the price of Rebetron, and could represent a saving of as much as $900 a month.
"We're a corner drugstore, basically," said Betty Stein, a pharmacist and owner of the business along with two other pharmacists, Jeff Fisher and Donald Kerrish. "We have checked into this. We are not doing it on a whim. Every avenue is on the up and up."
Ms. Stein said that she and her colleagues would not manufacture the Ribavirin, but would buy it from another company and pack it into capsules by hand, according to each patient's prescription. She declined to name the company, but said it was an importer that bought the drug from an overseas manufacturer.
Even though the Ribavirin is imported, Ms. Stein said, it is pure and carries the U.S.P. label, which stands for U.S. Pharmacopeia and means that the product has been approved for dispensing in this country.
Ms. Stein said it would be legal to sell Ribavirin in this manner on July 9 because Schering-Plough's patent on using it for hepatitis C would expire the day before. Although the company still has an agreement that bars competitors in the United States from marketing generic forms of the drug, that agreement does not apply to pharmacies like Fisher's, which merely puts the drug into capsules.
A spokesman for Schering-Plough said that the company was investigating the matter, but that so far, it appeared to be legal.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (86%); MRK (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP; REBETRON (DRUG) MERCK & CO INC (86%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP; REBETRON (DRUG) FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HEPATITIS; RIBAVIRIN (DRUG); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTRON A (DRUG); INTERFERON HEPATITIS (94%); HEPATITIS C (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); ANTIVIRALS (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); APPROVALS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); LIVER DISEASE (78%); COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES (78%); PATENTS (77%); US FDA APPROVALS (76%); US FDA REVIEW (75%); PATENT LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%); 

PERSON: GRADY, DENISE INTRON A ALONE (69%); BETTY STEIN (65%); JEFF FISHER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



648 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Serbs Protest Milosevic In a Devastated City
About 10,000 people packed the central square of Cacak, a war-damaged manufacturing city in Serbia that is controlled by the opposition, to demand the resignation of President Slobodan Milosevic. Speakers said he had shamed Serbia, ruined the economy and tried to cover up his failures with a campaign of lies. A1
 
 
NATO troops mistakenly detained two top commanders of the Kosovo Liberation Army, believing that they were in violation of the demilitarization agreement. A10 

Kurd Sentenced to Death
A Turkish security court sentenced the Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan to death for his 15-year campaign against the Turkish Army. A3
 
Attack on Presidential Guard
Armed robbers in Mexico ambushed soldiers of the Presidential Guard two blocks from President Ernesto Zedillo's residence, stealing a $50,000 military payroll and killing a lieutenant and a sergeant. A8
 
Canada Cools Cuba Relations
Canada is blocking all new assistance programs to Cuba that do not clearly further the protection of human rights, sinking relations between the countries to their lowest point in years. A8
 
Ulster Talks Await Report
Negotiators trying to break an impasse threatening the Northern Ireland peace agreement awaited a report on whether paramilitary organizations were willing to disarm. A8
 
Swiss Fund for Nazi Victims
A campaign began to inform victims of Nazi persecution how to claim compensation from a $1.25 billion fund set up by two Swiss banks. A11
 
Mubarak Praises Barak Victory
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, speaking in Washington, where is to meet with President Clinton, hailed the change in government in Israel as a "new dawn" in the Middle East. A5
 
World Population Debate Stalls
A 180-nation conference struggling to repair a shattered consensus on limiting world population growth remained divided over issues that included abortion, family planning and sex education in schools. A9
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
Clinton Provides Details On Medicare Overhaul
President Clinton presented his plan for fundamental changes in the structure of the Medicare program to make it more like private health insurance and to add coverage of prescription drugs. A1
 
Deal on Patient Rights
Republicans and Democrats reached agreement on how and when to consider legislation to give patients new guarantees from their health insurance plans. A18
 
G.O.P.'s Plans for Surplus
Congressional Republicans, encouraged by projections of huge Federal budget surpluses, said they would increase their proposed tax cut to $1 trillion or more, effectively rejecting President Clinton's call to divide the money among a variety of needs. A18
 
End of the Counsel Law
The Ethics in Government Act, which gave the country 20 independent counsels in two decades, expires at midnight. The Attorney General will now decide whether to begin ethics investigations of top officials. A1
 
Bush Leads in Fund-Raising
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has accumulated at least $20 million in just four months, raising more money, more quickly, than any Presidential candidate in history. But the most surprising early windfall has gone to former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, who has raised more than $11 million to close the money gap with Vice President Al Gore. A20
 
 
Mr. Bush campaigned in California, distancing himself from a 1994 ballot measure prohibiting public services to illegal immigrants and a 1996 measure curtailing affirmative action programs. A20
 
Speedy New Train for Northeast
Amtrak said the Acela Express would be the continent's fastest train when it begins the Washington-New York-Boston run this year. A16
 
Gambling Vote in S. Carolina
The House again rejected a bill promoted by Gov. Jim Hodges to give voters a chance to decide whether to ban video poker machines or put them under a tighter regulation. A12
 
Convicted Doctor to Go Free
The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ordered the release of Stephen B. Scher, 59, who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison in 1997 in a killing that occurred more than 20 years earlier. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Nassau County Hit With Low Fiscal Rating
Standard & Poor's downgraded Nassau County's bonds two notches, to the lowest investment-grade level, and delivered a scathing critique of the county's fiscal management. A1
 
Flaws in Boy's Account
Much of what a 13-year-old Honduran boy told concerning a journey to New York to find his father now appears to have been made up. B1
 
New Area Code for Manhattan
Beginning tomorrow, customers who sign up for new phone service in Manhattan may be assigned the new 646 area code, instead of 212. B1
 
Lead-Paint Legislation
The City Council is expected to pass disputed legislation changing the standards on lead paint. B4
 
List of Prohibited Pets
City health officials approved a highly specific list of animals outlawed as pets in New York City. B3
 
Outlook for Year 2000
Year 2000 computer problems are unlikely to keep New York-area residents from getting food, water and health care and other daily needs, according to three studies. B5
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Sponsors Cool to 'Family Guy'
Many current and potential sponsors say they will not advertise on the Fox animated series "Family Guy" because of its content. Some had received letters of complaint from a Connecticut headmaster. E6
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Announcer Returning to NBC
NBC gave Marv Albert a three-year contract to call N.B.A. games, two years after dismissing him when he pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor assault of a female acquaintance. D2
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Catholicos Karekin I
The spiritual leader of Armenian Orthodox Christians was 66. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-32
 
Big Phone Merger Approved
Federal officials tentatively approved a $72 billion merger of Ameritech and SBC Communications, which would create the largest local phone company in the nation. But two unusual conditions were attached: the new company must open its territory to competitors and must offer local service in 30 of the largest cities outside its own region. A1
 
Limits on Computer Liability
The White House and Congressional Republicans agreed on legislation to limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer breakdowns. A1
 
Big Board Settlement
The New York Stock Exchange agreed to a settlement with the S.E.C., which said the exchange did not adequately monitor independent floor brokers who illegally profited from trades. The exchange did not have to admit any wrongdoing. C1
 
Concerns About Latin America
A spate of recent economic data from Latin America suggests that the recession gripping the region will be deeper and more prolonged than most economists had expected. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDUCATION B8
 
DINING F1-14
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Improving Medicare; at midnight in Belfast; untimely delay for Mr. Holbrooke; a cruel scheme to curb abortion.
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E11
 
TV Listings E12
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TURKEY (92%); EGYPT (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); TURKEY (92%); EGYPT (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); ETHICS (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); SENTENCING (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ROBBERY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); SEX EDUCATION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); MEDICARE (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



649 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Albany Democrats Savor Request for County Bailout

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
When enduring economic hardship, New York City has usually turned to the state for assistance, and the reception from the many suburban Republican lawmakers in Albany has rarely been gracious. Why can't the city live within its means, they disdainfully ask, as if lecturing a ne'er-do-well neighbor who has sought a handout once too often.
So the current budget shortfall in the cast-iron Republican fortress of Nassau County has put Democrats in the State Capitol, most of whom represent the city, in an unaccustomed position. Now Nassau wants help from the state -- and fast. Hmm. Wait a minute. Why can't Nassau live within its means? 
 Even the news yesterday that Standard & Poor's, the Wall Street firm, had drastically lowered the county's bond rating while issuing a finger-wagging critique of its management was not enough to jolt the Democrats into action. It may not exactly be payback time, but the Nassau bailout has certainly become entangled in the regional and partisan rivalries that define Albany.
The Republicans who control the county have asked the state to approve a new local tax on real estate sales that could generate at least $50 million annually, to be used to patch a budget gap of more than $200 million. The Republicans are desperate to avoid a measure they believe could be far more politically noxious: raising property taxes.
Standing in the county's way in Albany is the Democratic majority in the Assembly, which has accumulated a lengthy list of grievances against suburban Republicans.
The Assembly Democrats say they will authorize the tax only if the state creates an independent board to oversee the county's finances, a proposal that the county has greeted like castor oil. Ripping a page from the Republicans' litany about fiscal responsibility, the Democrats have declared that they need to break the county of its bad budget habits.
And they seem to savor the prospect of Republicans' trekking to Albany when the economy is robust to ask Democrats for a tax increase.
"It is an interesting role reversal," said Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, a Nassau Democrat who is one of only a handful of Assembly Democrats from Long Island.
For their part, Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, and the Republican majority in the Senate say they will approve the new tax without conditions, contending that they generally back such local requests. The Governor and the Senate Republicans, who typically cast themselves as fierce opponents of new taxes, have declined to find fault with their Republican brethren in the county.
"I don't think that is for me to comment on," said Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Nassau Republican.
The Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, has named Mr. DiNapoli to lead the Assembly side in the talks with the County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, and it can probably be assumed that the choice of Mr. Di Napoli galls Mr. Gulotta and other Nassau Republicans.
Mr. DiNapoli is the new county Democratic chairman, and he is trying to revive the party's fortunes. (His predecessor was convicted on Federal fraud charges this year.) Mr. DiNapoli does not deny that he would like an agreement in Albany to give the Democrats more power over the county budget, from negotiating contracts with unions to directing spending on health care.
"If they want to come to us for support, they are going to have to do some fundamental reordering of the way they do business," he said. "For a change, we have a lot more leverage than we normally have."
Mr. Gulotta declined to address Mr. DiNapoli's comments, saying only that he was reviewing the Democrats' demands. Mr. Gulotta has defended the county's performance by asserting that he has reduced the size of government and kept property taxes level during his tenure.
Likewise, other Republicans were careful in how they discussed Mr. DiNapoli, showing surprising restraint in a county not known for its political pleasantries. "I am hoping that partisan politics will not enter into the negotiations," said Bruce Blakeman, presiding officer of the Nassau County Legislature.
Even if Mr. DiNapoli reaches a tentative deal with Mr. Gulotta this week, the gamesmanship will not end there. In Albany, everything is trade bait, and the Assembly Democrats have long complained that Senate Republicans hold up measures that New York City wants to extract concessions. This time, Mr. Silver will undoubtedly delay approval of the tax until he gets something in return from the Governor and Senate.
"Everything that the city has gotten has been by begging, scratching, fighting," said Assemblyman Scott Stringer, a Manhattan Democrat. "Nothing happens without us having to swallow something."
Senator Skelos called such attacks misguided. "The Republicans were always there to help out the city, even when under Democratic administrations," he said.
Ultimately, the tax could be at the mercy of the negotiations over the state budget, which is now three months late. And while the Assembly Democrats insist they do not want to leave the county twisting, they are not in any hurry to jump to its aid.
"I don't want to say that this is a purely political thing because the fiscal health of Nassau County is very important to me," said Assemblyman David Sidikman, a Nassau Democrat. "The mismanagement there is obvious. But will the Republicans take a political hit? I hope so." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASK ASA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); APPROVALS (76%); BONDS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J THOMAS P DINAPOLI (90%); THOMAS S GULOTTA (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



650 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OPPOSITION;
Thousands Protest Milosevic In City Devastated by Bombs

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

DATELINE: CACAK, Serbia, June 29

 BODY:
In the first major anti-Government demonstration since NATO stopped bombing Yugoslavia, 10,000 people packed into the central square of this war-damaged manufacturing city today to demand the resignation of President Slobodan Milosevic.
A parade of speakers said Mr. Milosevic, by committing robbery and murder in Kosovo in the name of the Serbian people, had shamed Serbia in the eyes of the world, ruined the economy and tried to cover up his failures by a campaign of lies in the state-owned media. 
 Remarkably, in this city where several large factories were destroyed by American bombs that killed five civilians, not a single speaker blamed the United States for devastation that will likely take decades to overcome. Instead, they accused Mr. Milosevic of "evil" that provoked attacks from Serbia's traditional allies in the West.
"This Government has shamed us in front of ourselves, in front of God and in front of the whole world," said Milan Protic, a history professor from Belgrade and a leader of the Alliance for Change, an umbrella group of opposition parties that organized the rally.
Vladan Babic, coordinator of what the Alliance for Change says will be a series of rallies across Serbia in coming weeks, told the crowd that the point of the demonstration was to send a simple message to Mr. Milosevic: "Go away! Go to Cuba and study Stalinism there."
Cacak is one of the few cities in Serbia where the opposition is in complete control of the city government. The rally organizers said they had not yet planned demonstrations in Belgrade.
Three months of daily rallies in Belgrade in the winter of 1996-97 brought huge crowds into the streets who demanded that Mr. Milosevic resign. But owing in part to infighting among opposition leaders, the demonstrations fizzled out.
Just as demonstration today began, a loud explosion went off in a far corner of the square. The crowd was stunned into silence, but the blast hurt no one. A device used in war games to imitate the sound of artillery reportedly caused the explosion. It was not clear who planted it.
After demonstrators saw that nobody was hurt, the rally resumed, and they joined in shouting, "Red bandits, red bandits!" a familiar reference to Mr. Milosevic and his Government.
The state of war imposed here during the 11 weeks of bombing ended last weekend. But the Serbian Government has not lifted its ban on public gatherings. The city of Cacak decided to go ahead with the rally despite having been told by the Serbian police that it was illegal, said Vice Mayor Dusan Dzinkovic.
On roads leading into the city of 80,000, the Serbian police stopped a number of buses and cars, some from Belgrade carrying opposition party leaders, as well as foreign and local journalists. A few foreign reporters said they had been turned back.
At the rally, an opposition leader, Vuk Obradovic, thanked the Yugoslav Army for the local soldiers who, he said, picked up demonstrators and took them to the rally after the police had stopped busloads of opposition figures outside the city.
Army reservists have blocked roads and bridges in several towns in central Serbia in the last week, protesting that they have not been paid for having served in the Kosovo conflict. It was not clear whether the reservists were the ones who had helped take demonstrators to the city.
"Thanks to our army for enabling people to break through the police barricades on some roads and come to join us," said Mr. Obradovic, a former Army general who resigned in 1992 to protest the conduct of Serbia's war against Croatia. "They are with us, and we are with them, and they know it."
The Yugoslav Army has had a rocky relationship with Mr. Milosevic over the years, a relationship punctuated by frequent purges and grumbling about declining living standards, as the Serbian leader has shifted money to the police.
A Serbian police officer outside the town said after the rally that he and his fellow officers had stopped no one from going to Cacak and accused the speakers at the rally of having spread false information.
The demonstration organizers said it was the first of what they hoped would be 20 to 25 protests across Serbia in the five weeks. Only then, they said, will they go to Belgrade.
"With the police harassing us, it is easier to organize locally," Mr. Protic said. "Belgrade should come as the culmination."
The opposition crushed the governing Socialist Party in elections in Cacak in 1996, taking control of all but eight seats in the 70-member City Council. The already high feelings against Mr. Milosevic soared in the conflict with NATO. Mayor Velimir Ilic complained publicly that the Yugoslav Army had caused the death of four civilians in the town by parking its tanks near houses. NATO bombs aimed at the tanks hit the houses.
After Mr. Ilic's complaints found their way onto Radio Free Europe, the military police tried to arrest him on May 19, and he went into hiding. Mr. Ilic used the rally as a "coming out" party, and his appearance on stage afternoon ignited the crowd.
"Today, I am the happiest person in the world, because I am with you again," he said. "But I could cry because of what this Government has done to this country."
The Mayor challenged the Serbian Government to arrest him now, saying that he would no longer hide from authorities and that they knew where to find him.
The rally was as notable for those who did not speak as for those who did. The charismatic leader of the largest opposition party in Serbia, Vuk Draskovic, has refused to join the opposition alliance. He says the time is not ripe to take to the streets to demand that Mr. Milosevic leave power.
At a news conference in Belgrade, Mr. Draskovic said today that he hoped to add pressure for change without disruptive demonstrations and that in any case there was no viable opposition movement in Serbia without his Serbian Renewal Movement.
"If it wasn't for journalists," Mr. Draskovic said, "no one would have any knowledge either of the alliance or of their rallies. The alliance groups small parties with no influence, and everything they organize will substantiate that fact."
Mr. Draskovic's dismissive remarks were the only mention of the demonstration on state television tonight.
On a wiltingly hot afternoon in the square, expectations were low that demonstrations alone could force Mr. Milosevic to step down.
"I have no hope that this rally will change anything," said Vladimir Lukic, 25, who is soon to graduate with an engineering decree from a college here whose windows were blown out by NATO bombs. "These demonstrations have happened before, and they didn't change anything."
Asked whether he blamed the United States or Western Europe for the bombing, Mr. Lukic said: "No. This is not the will of the American people. It is the consequence of the crimes that have been going on in this country for 10 years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd estimated at 10,000 filled the central square of Cacak in a protest against Slobodan Milosevic. The opposition controls the city government. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MURDER (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); WRITERS (60%); ROBBERY (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



651 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON LAYS OUT PLAN TO OVERHAUL MEDICARE SYSTEM

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Following up on a promise to preserve Medicare for the aging baby-boom generation, President Clinton today proposed fundamental changes in the program's structure to make it more like private health insurance and to add coverage of prescription drugs, a benefit long sought by the elderly.
The White House said his proposal, one of the biggest domestic policy initiatives of the last three decades, would help keep Medicare solvent until 2027 -- 12 years longer than the last official projections under current law. 
 The President who rode into office with a promise to guarantee health insurance for all said he was hoping to close his Administration by enhancing the giant health program for the elderly and the disabled. The number of Americans 65 and older is expected to double in 30 years.
Administration officials acknowledged a potential contradiction in their efforts to shore up Medicare's finances while at the same time creating a costly new drug benefit. But they said they would save money by making structural changes in the program, by encouraging managed care competition, by trying to negotiate high-volume discounts for care as private insurers do and by increasing certain costs to beneficiaries. The $100 annual deductible for doctors' services, for example, would rise with consumer prices, and patients would have to pay 20 percent of the cost of laboratory services.
Still, those savings would be dwarfed by a huge infusion of cash from the Treasury: $374 billion in the next 10 years, and $794 billion over 15.
Some lawmakers said the fast-growing budget surplus improved the prospects for passage of a major Medicare overhaul. But beneath the inklings of bipartisanship today, the old suspicions lingered.
Republicans in Congress reacted cautiously. They did not reject Mr. Clinton's proposals out of hand. And they said they too wanted to restructure Medicare. But they also said they feared that the costs of the proposed drug benefit would soar.
The economic context for Mr. Clinton's proposal could hardly be better, with a vibrant economy generating a windfall of Federal revenue. The White House said on Monday that it foresaw surpluses totaling nearly $3 trillion over the next decade. One in eight of those dollars would go to shore up Medicare under the President's plan.
"In a nation bursting with prosperity, no senior should have to choose between buying food and buying medicine," Mr. Clinton told a bipartisan audience of lawmakers at the White House today.
Under his plan, drug coverage would be voluntary, but the Administration said it would be such a good bargain that almost everybody would choose it. In 2002, the first year of Mr. Clinton's proposal, each beneficiary would pay a drug premium of $24 a month, or $288 a year. Medicare would cover half the beneficiary's drug costs, up to an initial annual limit of $1,000 on the first $2,000 of drug expenses. The premium would rise gradually, to $44 a month in 2008, and so would the benefit: to an annual maximum of $2,500, or half of drug expenses up to $5,000.
People with low incomes (under $17,000 a year for a couple) would not have to pay the drug premium or the beneficiary's share of the drug costs.
"This is a drug benefit our seniors can afford, at a price America can afford," Mr. Clinton said.
Lobbyists for the elderly said enactment of a Medicare drug benefit before next year's elections was a long shot. But they rejoiced that Mr. Clinton had put the issue high on the nation's agenda.
While Mr. Clinton would offer drug coverage to all 39 million Medicare beneficiaries, Republicans said Congress should start by helping the 15.5 million who do not have such coverage through their Medigap policies, retiree health plans or health maintenance organizations.
In a joint statement, the Speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert, and the Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott, said, "We should be careful not to force those who already have prescription drug coverage to accept a Government-run plan that costs more and provides fewer choices."
Under the President's proposal, Medicare beneficiaries would pay a total of $110 billion in premiums for drug coverage over the next 10 years, and the Government would put up $118 billion.
Gail E. Shearer, a health policy expert at Consumers Union, said, "The proposed drug benefit offers consumers good value -- far better than they can now get in the Medigap market," which offers private insurance to supplement Medicare.
The White House estimates that the new drug benefit would cost the Treasury $21.8 billion a year in 2009, and it anticipates that the costs at that point would be growing about 11 percent a year -- much less than the increases in drug spending reported recently by private health plans. This disparity will inevitably raise questions about whether the Administration has underestimated the long-term cost of its proposal, as the Government has done with other Medicare benefits in the past.
Some elements of Mr. Clinton's plan had been disclosed in recent weeks, but there were a few surprises today. For example, he proposed to eliminate all co-payments, deductibles and other charges that beneficiaries pay for preventive services covered by Medicare, which include screening for osteoporosis and for breast, colon and prostate cancer. Mr. Clinton also called for a study to see if Medicare should cover services to help people quit smoking.
But the President also proposed to make beneficiaries pay 20 percent of the cost of laboratory services, for which they now pay little or nothing.
In addition, he asked Congress to increase the deductible amount that Medicare beneficiaries pay for doctors' services and outpatient hospital visits. The deductible, which has been fixed by law at $100 a year since 1991, would be automatically increased each year to reflect increases in prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index.
Other highlights of Mr. Clinton's proposal included these:
*For the first time, H.M.O.'s would be permitted to compete on the prices they charge Medicare beneficiaries. A beneficiary who chose a low-cost H.M.O. could keep 75 cents of every dollar saved. H.M.O.'s would have to provide all the benefits covered by the traditional Medicare program and could offer more.
*The Government would offer subsidies to employers as an incentive for them to continue providing health benefits to retired workers. To be eligible for a subsidy, an employer would have to offer a prescription drug benefit at least equal to the proposed Medicare benefit.
*The Government would continue many of the Medicare cuts that were made by Congress in 1997 and are scheduled to expire in 2003. But the Administration said it would provide some financial relief for nursing homes and home health care agencies and for hospitals that serve large numbers of poor people.
Howard J. Bedlin, vice president of the National Council on the Aging, a research and advocacy group, welcomed the President's proposal for drug coverage.
"It would be wonderful if a bipartisan consensus emerged, but it's a long shot," Mr. Bedlin said. "Prescription drug benefits are so complex in substance, so controversial politically and so expensive, I'd be surprised if any major reform was enacted before 2001."
Chris Jennings, the coordinator of health policy at the White House, said people on Medicare would not abuse drug benefits because they would have to pay half the cost of any medicines. The Government would hire private companies to manage drug benefits for the elderly.
In recent years, employers and health plans have reported sharp increases in spending for prescription drugs. The Segal Company, an employee benefits consulting concern, told its clients last week that they "should expect to see 1999 prescription drug costs rise by an average of 16 percent."
PCS Health Systems of Scottsdale, Ariz., a company that manages drug benefits, said private health plans saw drug spending increases in the range of 14 to 18 percent last year.
Total retail drug spending in the United States has nearly doubled in the last six years and now exceeds $90 billion a year. New, more effective medicines often cost three or four times as much as older drugs for the same condition.
The drug industry reacted warily to the President's announcement.
"We agree on the need to expand drug coverage for seniors, but we want to make sure it's done in the right way," said Alan F. Holmer, president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. "We plan to review the President's plan with great care."
The association is planning a major public campaign on the issue of Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, revolving around the industry's aversion to anything resembling price controls.
Democrats had high praise for the President's plan. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, said Mr. Clinton's drug proposal "will be the single greatest improvement to the Medicare program since its inception" in 1965.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Mr. Clinton had found "the right prescription for Medicare."
Mr. Clinton's Medicare proposal is in many ways a careful piece of politics, reflecting some of the hard-learned lessons of previous struggles over health care, including his campaign for universal coverage in 1993-94 and the last big Medicare expansion attempted, in 1988-89.
Administration officials presented their plan today as completely voluntary, aimed at helping the middle class as well as the poor and structured to run with only the lightest regulatory hand. In other words, they said, it is far different from the vast quasi-governmental apparatus proposed by the President six years ago.
Still, experts said, it will be difficult to pass any major health care proposal in a Congress getting ready for the political warfare of an election season. Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, "A prescription drug benefit is very attractive to Republicans and Democrats in the abstract, but when the details are laid out they will be controversial."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before President Clinton presented his Medicare proposal, Senator Trent Lott met with reporters as (Justin Lane for The New York Times), from near right, Senator John B. Breaux joined Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, Representative Bill Thomas and Senator Tom Daschle. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); At the White House yesterday, President Clinton acknowledged Senator John B. Breaux and Representative Bill Thomas for their Medicare work. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: The President's Goals"
President Clinton's proposals for Medicare's 39 million beneficiaries would use $794 billion in expected Government surpluses over the next 15 years to shore up the program and add a benefit.
 
New voluntary prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries.
ESTIMATED COST -- $118 billion over 10 years.
 
Premiums would start at $24 a month once the benefit becomes available in 2002, rising to $44 by 2008.
 
Coverage would start with the first dollar of prescription costs, with no deductible and a 50 percent co-payment. The Government would pay half the first $2,000 in 2002, with the limit rising to half the first $5,000 by 2008.
 
Single people with incomes under $11,000 and couples with incomes under $17,000 would not pay premiums or co-payments.
 
Financial incentives would be given to employers who provided retiree health coverage if it included a prescription drug benefit at least equivalent to the new Medicare benefit.
 
Existing co-payments and the deductible would be eliminated for preventive services covered by Medicare, including screening for prostate and colon cancer, bone mass measurements, pelvic exams and mammograms. An education campaign aimed at Americans over 50 would be adopted, including a three-year demonstration project to help beneficiaries stop smoking.
ESTIMATED COST -- $3 billion over 10 years.
 
A 20 percent co-payment for laboratory tests, for which beneficiaries currently pay nothing, would be added. The deductible for doctor's office visits and other outpatient treatments would be adjusted for inflation; the current deductible of $100 a year would probably rise by $2 to $3 a year. ESTIMATED SAVINGS -- $11 billion over 10 years.
 
Competition would be added among H.M.O.'s in the prices they charge Medicare beneficiaries. Beneficiaries who chose a low-cost H.M.O. could keep 75 cents of every dollar saved. H.M.O.'s would have to provide all the benefits covered by the traditional Medicare program and could offer more.
ESTIMATED SAVINGS -- $8 billion over 10 years.
 
Most curbs on payments to health care providers that were part of the 1997 balanced-budget agreement would be extended, but a $7.5 billion fund would be established so that adjustments could be made if some cuts were hurting patient care.
ESTIMATED SAVINGS -- $31.5 billion over 10 years.
 
Medicare administrators would be given new authority to negotiate discounts rather than using Government fee schedules to buy goods and services, including medical equipment.
ESTIMATED SAVINGS -- $25 billion over 10 years.
(pg. A18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MEDICARE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INSURANCE (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); TOM DASCHLE (76%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



652 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Close Ties to Cuba Fraying Over Human Rights

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 29

 BODY:
The cozy relationship between Canada and Cuba that has so infuriated American Presidents and Congressional leaders has sunk to its lowest point in years, principally because of Cuba's continuing record of violating basic human rights.
Angered by the recent conviction of several dissidents on whose behalf Prime Minister Jean Chretien had personally intervened, Canada is blocking all new assistance programs to Cuba that do not clearly further the protection of human rights. 
 Canadian officials have also decided not to encourage other countries in the hemisphere to support Cuba's admission into the Organization of American States.
Officials in the Canadian foreign ministry say the new approach is not a break with Cuba -- as some Washington politicians had hoped it would be -- but rather the refinement of a longstanding policy that continues to have as its goal Cuba's transition to democracy.
"We're still engaged with them, but we have to put some northern ice in the middle of it," Mr. Chretien told reporters in Ottawa today.
But some political analysts see the cooling of Canada-Cuba relations as the inevitable result of dealing with Fidel Castro.
"Chretien is learning what Khrushchev knew before," said Larry Birns, director of the Council for Hemispheric Affairs in Washington. "You can supply billions in foreign aid, as the Russians did, and still have minimal leverage. Ultimately Castro is a nationalist, and he decides what he thinks is best for Cuba."
When Mr. Chretien visited Cuba in 1998, he presented a list of four political prisoners that he wanted Mr. Castro to release. But in March the four were convicted of "counterrevolutionary activities" and sentenced to up to five years in jail. Canada-Cuba relations then sank to their lowest point since foreign aid was suspended in the mid-1980's because of Cuba's military involvement in Angola.
Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy ordered a review of contacts with Cuba and the policy of constructive engagement that has been the basis of Canada's approach throughout the period that Cuba has been ruled by Fidel Castro's Communist Government.
While the United States imposed an economic embargo on Cuba, Canada moved in the opposite direction, believing that the best way to bring about real democratic reform in the country was to maintain strong ties. Canada also believed that it could use its influence to prod Cuba into doing more to protect human rights of its citizens, particularly political prisoners.
After the policy review was completed in April, Canada decided to continue trading with and doing business in Cuba. That commerce came to $555 million in 1998.
But because of the serious flaws in Cuba's human rights record, Canada's foreign ministry believed that a tougher approach was needed, at least until Cuba responded positively to Canadian concerns.
Mr. Axworthy had demanded that all Cabinet ministers with programs in Cuba clear any official visits through him, and he has decided that planning for all visits should be suspended for now. That meant the indefinite postponement of trips by the International Trade Minister, Sergio Marchi, and the Minister of International Cooperation, Diane Marleau.
Canada has given Cuba $24 million in foreign aid during the last five years. Officials say the funds have not been frozen completely but are subject to a case-by-case review. Several projects have already been suspended, including a plan to provide financial assistance to help Haiti cooperate in a medical development effort with Cuba. The Canadians fear that Cuba may use the medical research more for propaganda than humanitarian purposes.
Canada has also backed away from a commitment to lobby for Cuba's integration into the hemisphere, particularly through participation in the Organization of American States, from which it was expelled in 1962. Canada will be the host of the organization's general assembly next June.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CANADA; CUBA (99%); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CANADA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-CUBA; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



653 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Campus in Cyberspace

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK 

 BODY:
Unext.com, an Internet company that recently joined with Columbia Business School to sell business-education material supplied by Columbia, has added Stanford, the University of Chicago and the London School of Economics to its list of academic providers for profit.
Unext.com signed them up last week. Initially available only to employees of corporate customers starting this fall, the noncredit courses, which are being developed, should be available to individuals next year, said Edwin Eisendrath, Unext's vice president for communications. Mr. Eisendrath said Unext hoped to receive academic accreditation and eventually to offer a master's degree. The universities are not granting degrees or credit themselves through Unext, which pays them royalties. 
 The on-line service, based in Deerfield, Ill., gives the universities veto power over all course material and use of their names, he said.
John M. Preis, associate dean for finance and administration at Columbia Business School, said the arrangement would provide access to 35 million desktops worldwide.
 MICHAEL POLLAK
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS M-PREIS WARENVERTRIEBSGMBH (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; STANFORD UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BUSINESS SCHOOLS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (88%); ACCREDITATION (73%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (73%); VETO (69%); 

PERSON: POLLAK, MICHAEL ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



654 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Nassau's Bonds Deemed Riskier By Credit Rater

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., June 29

 BODY:
Nassau County's financial problems took a significant turn for the worse today when Standard & Poor's downgraded the county's bonds to the lowest investment-grade category, and delivered a scathing critique of the county's fiscal management.
The new rating of BBB, two notches above that designated for junk bonds, could make it much more expensive for Nassau to raise money through bond sales, and gives it one of the worst credit ratings among wealthy suburban counties nationwide. 
 Only Orange County, Calif., which declared bankruptcy in 1994 after making disastrous investments in risky securities, has a lower rating among such counties, officials at the rating agency said. In New York, only Erie, the county in which Buffalo lies, has a rating as low as BBB, but Erie's battered industrial economy stands in sharp contrast to the high per capita wealth and low unemployment of Nassau.
In lowering the rating on Nassau's $2.6 billion in bonds to BBB from A-minus, officials at Standard & Poor's also dismissed the county's protracted effort to eliminate its budget deficit, which now stands at more than $200 million, as too little, too late, and too full of holes.
"The current fiscal problem is symptomatic of the historical difficulty the county has had in matching ongoing revenues to ongoing expenditures over several fiscal years," the rating agency said in announcing its action. "When faced with budget imbalances, the county has been unable to take decisive corrective action to close the budget gaps."
The announcement is a bitter blow to Nassau's Republican machine, which has maintained its grip on power in recent years largely by avoiding property tax increases even while doling out increasingly generous wage increases to the county's civil servants, police and patronage workers. The political cost of that fiscal imbalance could be paid as early as this fall, when all 19 county legislative seats, of which Republicans hold 14, are up for election.
Increasingly, and imprudently, the rating agency said, county officials have relied on one-time-only revenue measures like the sale of assets, including the county medical center, which is now being spun off to a quasi-public corporation.
One of the many problems with those one-shot sales, Standard & Poor's said, is that many of them take years longer to complete than county officials forecast. The revenues from the hospital sale, for example, were first placed in the budget two fiscal years ago.
As a result, the agency said, the county has had to increase its short-term borrowing substantially to cover current expenses like salaries. This year, the county expects to incur $430 million in that costly short-term debt, or about 20 percent of its $2.2 billion budget, said Diane P. Brosen, a Standard & Poor's analyst. Since 1994, she said, Nassau's short-term debt has jumped 70 percent, even though the total amount of the budget is largely unchanged.
Perhaps the most damaging news in Standard & Poor's review of Nassau's predicament was its opinion that a deficit-closing plan the county is promoting in Albany will not be enough to do the job.
Desperate to avoid raising property taxes, County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta has been seeking legislative approval for a new 1 percent tax on real estate sales, which would produce an estimated $50 million to $70 million a year in revenue.
"Even if the county were to realize the major components of its fiscal recovery plan," the rating agency said today, "it is unlikely that the plan would fully correct the current year's fiscal imbalance."
Ms. Brosen, of Standard & Poor's, asserted that Mr. Gulotta's plan unwisely includes $170 million in borrowing against the county's share of the nationwide settlement of tobacco litigation. To expect that Nassau would receive the tobacco payments beginning in December, she said, was to ignore complex negotiations involving several states that could delay that money for years.
Nassau Republicans spoke as if from a single script today, saying that the downgrade was expected and promising to work together to solve the county's financial problems. They also played down the significance of the rating agency's move. While a lower bond rating suggests a higher risk to investors, who over time demand higher interest rates in return, those added costs are difficult to estimate because of fluctuations in the bond market.
"It certainly isn't good," said the Nassau Comptroller, Frederick E. Parola. "But at this point it won't cost the county a great deal of money. It's really more embarrassment than substantive. It's a slap of cold water in the face. It's an unfriendly reprimand."
But Democrats wasted no time, or niceties, in placing blame. "It's Gulotta's fault," said Judith A. Jacobs, the minority leader in the Legislature. "It's his budget. It's his one-shot deals. You can't go through one year after another with these deficits and one-shots and not know something was going to happen like this. It's like knowing the train is about to roll by, and you keep going anyway."
Leaders of several civic and business groups have complained loudly in recent weeks about Mr. Gulotta's handling of Nassau's finances. One of them, Phoebe Goodman, executive director of the nonpartisan NassauCitizens Budget Committee, lamented today what she called the County Executive's stubborn denial of reality.
"He seems to feel that the worst thing you could do is raise property taxes," Ms. Goodman said. "That's O.K. if you're cutting services and staff. But if you're increasing staff, which he did even though he said he was cutting it, you're going to have a deficit. Once the decision was made seven years ago to lower taxes and not fill the gap, the die was cast. He's been resorting to fiscal gimmicks ever since."
Mr. Gulotta declined to respond today to much of the criticism of his budget practices, saying that placing blame "is neither productive nor helpful." But he said he regretted that Standard & Poor's had not waited to see the outcome of his efforts in Albany. "I had asked if they could wait five to seven days, so they could review a fuller financial picture, depending on what actions the State Legislature might or might not take," he said.
Richard Marino, a Standard & Poor's analyst, noted in response that the rating agency warned Nassau as early as March 1998 that it was contemplating a downgrade. In December, he added, Standard & Poor's set a deadline of the end of June for Nassau to resolve its most basic budget problems.
Moreover, Ms. Brosen noted that Mr. Gulotta's administration had been through a similar scenario just seven years ago. The county's bond rating was lowered twice in 1992 by Moody's, a rival agency, at a time of a similarly ballooning deficit. The following year, after floating bonds to cover the deficit, Nassau asked Standard & Poor's to begin rating the county's debt. Ms. Brosen said officials promised that from then on, they would exercise fiscal discipline, using only taxes and other recurring revenues to pay current expenses. "But they didn't," she said.
Mr. Gulotta also suggested that the rating agency was mistaken in its review of his fiscal stewardship, noting that Nassau had enjoyed surpluses before the current deficit materialized. However, those surpluses are far outweighed by the recent deficits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Nassau Becomes Riskier Business"
Increasing and persistent budget deficits have led Standard & Poor's to give Nassau County a lower credit rating, a move that could make it more difficult for the county to sell bonds. Graph plots Nassau County budget balances, from 1986 through 1999.
 
What the Standard & Poor's ratings mean
 
AAA AA A BBB
Best ratings. Muncipalities or companies with these ratings have an "extremely strong" to "adequate" ability to meet financial commitments.
 
BB B CCC CC C D
Considered "junk bond" or "speculative" ratings. Municipalities or companies with these ratings present greater risk and range from "vulnerable" to"in default."
 
Ratings in the New York City area
 
NASSAU COUNTY: BBB
NEW YORK CITY: A minus
SUFFOLK COUNTY: BBB plus
WESTCHESTER COUNTY: AAA
ESSEX COUNTY (N.J.): AAA*
UNION COUNTY (N.J.): AA plus
 
*Rating based on county's purchase of insurance, which guarantees debt repayment
 
(Sources: Standard & Poor's; Nassau County Comptroller's Office)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP PUBLIC CORP FOR IRRIGATION & EXCAVATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; POLICE; PATRONAGE; FINANCES BONDS (92%); COUNTIES (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); SUBURBS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); POLITICS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); TAX LAW (63%); HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M THOMAS S GULOTTA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



655 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 3;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OPPOSITION;
Thousands Protest Milosevic In City Devastated by Bombs

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

DATELINE: CACAK, Serbia, June 29

 BODY:
In the first major anti-Government demonstration since NATO stopped bombing Yugoslavia, 10,000 people packed into the central square of this war-damaged manufacturing city today to demand the resignation of President Slobodan Milosevic.
A parade of speakers said Mr. Milosevic, by committing robbery and murder in Kosovo in the name of the Serbian people, had shamed Serbia in the eyes of the world, ruined the economy and tried to cover up his failures by a campaign of lies in the state-owned media. 
 Remarkably, in this city where several large factories were destroyed by American bombs that killed five civilians, not a single speaker blamed the United States for devastation that will likely take decades to overcome. Instead, they accused Mr. Milosevic of "evil" that provoked attacks from Serbia's traditional allies in the West.
"This Government has shamed us in front of ourselves, in front of God and in front of the whole world," said Milan Protic, a history professor from Belgrade and a leader of the Alliance for Change, an umbrella group of opposition parties that organized the rally.
Vladan Babic, coordinator of what the Alliance for Change says will be a series of rallies across Serbia in coming weeks, told the crowd that the point of the demonstration was to send a simple message to Mr. Milosevic: "Go away! Go to Cuba and study Stalinism there."
Cacak is one of the few cities in Serbia where the opposition is in complete control of the city government. The rally organizers said they had not yet planned demonstrations in Belgrade.
Three months of daily rallies in Belgrade in the winter of 1996-97 brought huge crowds into the streets who demanded that Mr. Milosevic resign. But owing in part to infighting among opposition leaders, the demonstrations fizzled out.
Just as demonstration today began, a loud explosion went off in a far corner of the square. The crowd was stunned into silence, but the blast hurt no one. A device used in war games to imitate the sound of artillery reportedly caused the explosion. It was not clear who planted it.
After demonstrators saw that nobody was hurt, the rally resumed, and they joined in shouting, "Red bandits, red bandits!" a familiar reference to Mr. Milosevic and his Government.
The state of war imposed here during the 11 weeks of bombing ended last weekend. But the Serbian Government has not lifted its ban on public gatherings. The city of Cacak decided to go ahead with the rally despite having been told by the Serbian police that it was illegal, said Vice Mayor Dusan Dzinkovic.
On roads leading into the city of 80,000, the Serbian police stopped a number of buses and cars, some from Belgrade carrying opposition party leaders, as well as foreign and local journalists. A few foreign reporters said they had been turned back.
At the rally, an opposition leader, Vuk Obradovic, thanked the Yugoslav Army for the local soldiers who, he said, picked up demonstrators and took them to the rally after the police had stopped busloads of opposition figures outside the city.
Army reservists have blocked roads and bridges in several towns in central Serbia in the last week, protesting that they have not been paid for having served in the Kosovo conflict. It was not clear whether the reservists were the ones who had helped take demonstrators to the city.
"Thanks to our army for enabling people to break through the police barricades on some roads and come to join us," said Mr. Obradovic, a former Army general who resigned in 1992 to protest the conduct of Serbia's war against Croatia. "They are with us, and we are with them, and they know it."
The Yugoslav Army has had a rocky relationship with Mr. Milosevic over the years, a relationship punctuated by frequent purges and grumbling about declining living standards, as the Serbian leader has shifted money to the police.
A Serbian police officer outside the town said after the rally that he and his fellow officers had stopped no one from going to Cacak and accused the speakers at the rally of having spread false information.
The demonstration organizers said it was the first of what they hoped would be 20 to 25 protests across Serbia in the five weeks. Only then, they said, will they go to Belgrade.
"With the police harassing us, it is easier to organize locally," Mr. Protic said. "Belgrade should come as the culmination."
The opposition crushed the governing Socialist Party in elections in Cacak in 1996, taking control of all but eight seats in the 70-member City Council. The already high feelings against Mr. Milosevic soared in the conflict with NATO. Mayor Velimir Ilic complained publicly that the Yugoslav Army had caused the death of four civilians in the town by parking its tanks near houses. NATO bombs aimed at the tanks hit the houses.
After Mr. Ilic's complaints found their way onto Radio Free Europe, the military police tried to arrest him on May 19, and he went into hiding. Mr. Ilic used the rally as a "coming out" party, and his appearance on stage afternoon ignited the crowd.
"Today, I am the happiest person in the world, because I am with you again," he said. "But I could cry because of what this Government has done to this country."
The Mayor challenged the Serbian Government to arrest him now, saying that he would no longer hide from authorities and that they knew where to find him.
The rally was as notable for those who did not speak as for those who did. The charismatic leader of the largest opposition party in Serbia, Vuk Draskovic, has refused to join the opposition alliance. He says the time is not ripe to take to the streets to demand that Mr. Milosevic leave power.
At a news conference in Belgrade, Mr. Draskovic said today that he hoped to add pressure for change without disruptive demonstrations and that in any case there was no viable opposition movement in Serbia without his Serbian Renewal Movement.
"If it wasn't for journalists," Mr. Draskovic said, "no one would have any knowledge either of the alliance or of their rallies. The alliance groups small parties with no influence, and everything they organize will substantiate that fact."
Mr. Draskovic's dismissive remarks were the only mention of the demonstration on state television tonight.
On a wiltingly hot afternoon in the square, expectations were low that demonstrations alone could force Mr. Milosevic to step down.
"I have no hope that this rally will change anything," said Vladimir Lukic, 25, who is soon to graduate with an engineering decree from a college here whose windows were blown out by NATO bombs. "These demonstrations have happened before, and they didn't change anything."
Asked whether he blamed the United States or Western Europe for the bombing, Mr. Lukic said: "No. This is not the will of the American people. It is the consequence of the crimes that have been going on in this country for 10 years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a protest in Yugoslavia against President Slobodan Milosevic misspelled the surname of an organizer. He is Vladan Batic, not Babic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd estimated at 10,000 filled the central square of Cacak in a protest against Slobodan Milosevic. The opposition controls the city government. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MURDER (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); WRITERS (60%); ROBBERY (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999



656 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Vexing Party, Clinton Backs Year 2000 Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Infuriating many Democrats, the White House today reached a basic agreement with Republicans in Congress on legislation to limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer breakdowns.
Republican leaders said all the main points had been settled and that they hoped Congress would clear the measure for the President's signature this week. The White House agreed that only technical language remained to be worked out. 
 The agreement, aggressively promoted by the computer industry and other business interests and opposed by trial lawyers and consumer groups, generally follows the lines of the bill approved by the Senate two weeks ago. Most Democrats voted against that bill, and President Clinton promised at the time to veto it.
A White House spokesman said relatively minor changes enabled the President to approve the agreement.
As described by lawmakers from both parties, it would set a ceiling on punitive damages against small companies, give all companies a grace period to fix breakdowns before they could be sued, sharply limit class-action suits involving many plaintiffs and protect wealthy companies against being held responsible for computer failures caused by poorer ones.
Many angry Democrats in the Senate and House said the White House had encouraged them to cast a politically risky vote against the bill and then sold them out. "This is a closed-door deal that will hurt consumers," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. "Maybe we can dare hope that this will be the last case of triangulation of the 20th century."
"Triangulation" is a term coined by Dick Morris, President Clinton's former political adviser, to mean that the President should not stand with Democrats or Republicans but at points above or between them. Democrats use it nowadays to express their irritation when Mr. Clinton does not follow the party line.
What is called the Y2K problem results from the longtime reliance of computer programs on only the last two digits of a year. When confronted by 00, some computers, software and electronically controlled machinery that have not been updated might misinterpret it as 1900 rather than 2000, substitute another year or simply freeze. A company could suffer financial loss, for example, if its computers broke down and it lost its payroll and billing records.
These are the main aspects of the legislation:
*Companies with fewer than 50 employees could not be assessed more than $250,000 in punitive damages.
*All companies would be given 90 days to fix a problem from the time they were notified before they could be sued.
*No more than 100 plaintiffs could be involved in a class-action suit, and no more than $10 million in damages could be sought.
*Class-action suits would be diverted from state courts to Federal courts, making them more expensive and burdensome for plaintiffs.
*All companies responsible for a computer failure would share the legal liability, and large, wealthy companies could not be forced to pay more than a portion of the damages caused by less affluent or bankrupt businesses.
The central purpose of the measure is to prevent frivolous lawsuits. But critics said there were insufficient protections for consumers who suffered financial loss because of computer failures.
A White House spokesman said President Clinton insisted that the measure be confined to Year 2000 computer problems and did not involve general tort reform.
In addition, the spokesman said small changes involving class-action suits and the proportional liability provisions convinced the President that the bill was worthwhile.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, was instrumental in working out the deal. Insurance companies in Connecticut are especially interested in limiting lawsuits.
Business interests were gleeful. Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which made the legislation its top lobbying priority of the year, called it "a watershed achievement for business and the American economy."
But groups representing consumers were critical. When computer problems develop, "the public is going to be very angry, and small businesses are going to be the most affected," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen.
Complicating the work on the bill all year has been the desire of both parties to win the political and financial support of wealthy individuals and companies in the computer industry.
A Republican strategist in Congress said his party was not willing to give much in the negotiations because the President was over a barrel: If he vetoed the bill, it would have hurt Vice President Al Gore specifically and Democrats generally in their quest for support in Silicon Valley. By accepting the agreement, in this view, the President gave Republicans what they wanted.
A Democratic strategist added another element. He said Vice President Gore, as he begins his campaign for the Presidency, was eager to rid himself of the taint of financial support from trial lawyers.
The conflict between trial lawyers, who are among Democrats' biggest campaign contributors, and business interests, which are the Republicans' biggest donors, has been a thread running through legislative battles for the last several years. Among other issues, it has arisen on product liability legislation, antismoking measures and bills to regulate managed-care health plans. The Democratic strategist said that for Mr. Gore, the money from the trial lawyers was probably not worth the criticism he faced for taking funds from an unpopular source. But that may not be the case, the strategist said, for Democrats in Congress.
In a careful statement tonight, Mark S. Mandell, president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, said, "It is positive that this unique response to a unique situation will be law for only three years and that the legal rights of anyone who suffers a physical injury are preserved." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about legislation to limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer failures misstated a provision dealing with class-action suits. The agreement between the White House and Republicans in Congress would require that suits involving more than 100 plaintiffs or seeking more than $10 million in damages be filed in Federal court rather than state courts. The agreement does not prohibit such suits altogether.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DAMAGES (89%); MILLENNIUM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); LAWYERS (74%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

 
