

1 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: AT WORK WITH: Peter Schickele;
When P. D. Q. Meets P. D. Slow

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL

 BODY:
It is one of those hoary musical anecdotes that, no matter how preposterous, survive and even find their way into college classrooms: With an operatic premiere looming, the notoriously laggard composer Giaocchino Rossini was spirited off to a tower by his noble patron to complete the overture, long overdue. His guards were instructed to drop the pages from a window as completed, for copying; if production stalled, they were to pitch out the composer himself.
As the hours dragged on in the largely deserted studios of Minnesota Public Radio here one Sunday, the tale seemed oddly appropriate, the more so in relation to Peter Schickele, that master of preposterous anecdotes. For there in the next room was the bearded, bearlike Mr. Schickele, amiable composer and unrepentant perpetrator of the mercifully mythical P. D. Q. Bach, scribbling a radio script long past the appointed hour. 
 Not to worry, however. "Adrenaline is a real friend," he had said the evening before over dinner at the St. Paul Grill, and the pages just kept piling up.
Mr. Schickele will appear as lecturer and narrator of his "Bach Portrait" -- a delightful deflation of Aaron Copland's grand "Lincoln Portrait," based on some of J. S. Bach's more trivial correspondence -- with the Brooklyn Philharmonic on Friday and Saturday evenings. But he was here in St. Paul in yet another of his many guises, as host of "Schickele Mix," a weekly hourlong program distributed by Public Radio International.
Dedicated to the proposition that "all musics are created equal," "Schickele Mix" presents a wide variety of classical music, mingled with a wider variety of everything else, from Miles Davis and the Beatles to polka bands and hard rock. It is carried by 135 stations nationwide, reaching some 270,000 listeners, and is broadcast in New York by WNYC, on Fridays at midnight, with repeats on Sundays at 7 P.M.
Although the show is just three years old, the image of Mr. Schickele in a broadcast studio seems somehow ancient and inevitable, for many of his most memorable comedic turns have cast him in this role. He began spoofing classical radio in the hilarious Vanguard album "P. D. Q. Bach on the Air" way back in 1967. Who could forget his riotous misadventures at WOOF, the one-man station of the University of Southern North Dakota at Hoople?
Not Mr. Schickele, it seems. "In true Hoople fashion, part of the wall just fell out," he said now in the plush, modern studio, wielding a dislodged acoustical panel.
But the WOOF era was a simpler time for classical radio. In a march toward triviality, many stations have reduced their repertories to snippets and light classics, swathed in happy talk whose only redeeming feature is its brevity. As Mr. Schickele inadvertently proved in perhaps his weakest P. D. Q. Bach album, "WTWP: Classical Talkity-Talk Radio," four years ago on Telarc, the medium has largely outrun the reach of parody.
In these anti-elitist times, classical music has been cast adrift in the rough-and-tumble of a fragmented American culture. Mr. Schickele, with "Schickele Mix," is showing one modest direction it can take, positively embracing the "enemy," pop culture, and subversively educating listeners about musical styles, forms, practices and history as he entertains them. Current classical broadcasting wisdom holds that talk is death to ratings; but surely it depends on who is talking.
"I guess we've all got some regrets, and one of mine is that I can't dance, or anyway I don't," Mr. Schickele said, easing his way into a program on the waltz that would eventually take up sophisticated musical issues. "I'm a lousy dancer. And that's particularly sad, because I believe in dancing. It seems to me that when it comes to things that are good for your body and your mind and your soul, dancing is right up there with prayer and laughter."
Mr. Schickele, whose effervescent patter and exquisite comic timing have always been crucial to the success of his P. D. Q. Bach ventures, finds that such chatter serves his very purpose of placing classical music in a broader context.
"We find that if I talk more, people accept a wider range of music," he said. "It is seen more as information rather than just music. I always assumed I would be a teacher, but life turned out differently."
Life has indeed held surprises for Mr. Schickele, now 59, who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan with his wife of 33 years, Susan Sindall. (Their son and daughter, both in their 20's, perform in a rock band, Beekeeper, in New York.) His performing abilities were severely curtailed by polio when he was 19. "My left foot flops, and if I had wanted to be a serious pianist, that would have put an end to it," he said. "There is nothing much going on in my left hand."
He taught at his alma maters, Swarthmore College and the Juilliard School, leaving Juilliard in 1965 after going public with the momentous "discovery" of P. D. Q. Bach. That bit of zaniness quickly came to dominate Mr. Schickele's activities. He composed new "finds" as needed, performed in concerts, made recordings and wrote "The Definitive Biography of P. D. Q. Bach."
Feeling that his own composing was suffering, he cut back sharply on his P. D. Q. appearances in 1991, abandoning touring altogether. He spends his summers in Woodstock, N.Y., composing his own music as well as the odd bit of faux Bachiana.
"To me, the constant of my life is composing," he said. "I've taken on a bunch of orchestral commissions recently. I'm just like the girl who can't say no."
Mr. Schickele's "serious" music, as friendly and accessible as the man, has been greeted with more respect than enthusiasm by critics. As with the music of Leonard Bernstein, it may be impossible to assess it independently while his other creations and activities hog the limelight.
Mr. Schickele repairs to St. Paul three times a year for marathon series of radio tapings. Eight programs were to be recorded over 11 days on this occasion, and the first, "Why Are Conductors Paid (And So Much, Too)?," which will be broadcast next week in some areas and on March 10 in New York, was about to begin, more or less.
"We never know exactly when we're going to get one of these dogs started," Tom Voegeli, the producer, said at 3:45 P.M., having already shoved the 4 o'clock starting time back an hour. Mr. Schickele -- the "star, talent, whatever you call him," in Mr. Voegeli's words -- kept scrawling on a legal pad.
"He's half done," Mr. Voegeli reported at 5:30. At 6:18, with the script still only three-quarters finished, the taping began.
When Mr. Schickele finally donned his radio persona, the lilting, resonant speech patterns and the homey manner felt as comfortableas an old slipper. The program, with its finely tuned informality and staged interruptions, fosters the harmless deception that Mr. Schickele is right down the hall at your local station. In fact, he is in Studio P (of course), with Mr. Voegeli.
Once the taping starts, it seldom stops. If Mr. Schickele trips over a word or misses a desired inflection, he simply stops, and starts the sentence over, entrusting the result to Mr. Voegeli's editorial expertise.
"We do pretty much everything in real time," Mr. Voegeli said. "We want it to feel live, so it's important to do it as a whole, though it's kind of a sloppy whole at this point."
As the program approached its premature cutoff, it became apparent that something would have to go. With 9 minutes of music still to play, the 13 minutes of remaining air time would not leave enough for Mr. Schickele's indispensable palaver.
The obvious place to start, as Mr. Voegeli pointed out, would be to excise an example or two from a segment in which Mr. Schickele compared the work of 10 different maestros in a single excerpt from Mozart's "Paris" Symphony (No. 31).
The program included a running joke with a phone ringing repeatedly. Mr. Schickele worked the bell himself.
"He won't let me do that," Mr. Voegeli said. "P. D. Q. Bach has spoiled him."
Mr. Schickele is, by his own admission, "a control freak." Still, he said, "Tom spends much more time on the show than I do."
At 7:15, it was back to writing for Mr. Schickele, and waiting for Mr. Voegeli. "We'll be done by 1," Mr. Voegeli said, sounding unconvinced.
Then, however briefly, Mr. Schickele could sleep, perchance to dream about the realm in which, he is convinced, "angels sound like the Everly Brothers, and God has a sense of humor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Schickele in a Minnesota Public Radio studio in St. Paul. (Steve Woit for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Peter Schickele in a promotional pose for "The Incomplete Vocal Music of P. D. Q. Bach" at Carnegie Hall in 1976. (Peter Schaap) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: P D Q MANUFACTURING INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RADIO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RADIO FORMATS (86%); POP & ROCK (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); PUBLIC RADIO (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); DEFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHICKELE, PETER; SCHICKELE, PETER (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); BACH, P D Q (PETER SCHICKELE) PETER SCHICKELE (98%); AARON COPLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



2 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Kleenex, Juice (Sniff), Aspirin, Fax

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
NANCY SMITH has a two-line telephone, right by her bed, that can handle conference calls. She has a laptop computer. She has a boss who leaves anxious-sounding voice-mail messages. She also has the flu.
So she compromised: she stayed home one day last week, but took part in a meeting on the phone. The problem was, the conference-call connection had the fidelity of a subway public-address announcement. 
 "I was feeling the pressure of having a lot of things to catch up on," said Ms. Smith, a consumer affairs manager for AT&T in Basking Ridge, N.J. "But it was hard for me to catch what was being said. The little snatches that I could hear made me think it was very interesting, but I eventually gave up."
The flu that has hit the East Coast this winter seems to be making people sicker than in previous years, and for longer. Stalwart workaholics who insist that they never come down with more than a 36-hour bug have missed entire weeks of work. To be at home for that long is to risk life-changing revelations. Yes, your apartment really is a mess. Yes, you may lose a few clients for being in bed instead of at their meetings. Yes, you are stuck in a lousy job with a monomaniacal boss who should be told off in no uncertain terms.
But despite triple-digit fevers and megadoses of antibiotics, the old fear sets in.
"In today's economy, with companies being downsized all the time, there's a real concern about not appearing weak," said Joseph R. Weintraub, a professor of management and organizational behavior at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass. "You don't want to acknowledge you may be ill or, if you are, you can't function. Even if you can't get in to work because you can't stand up for longer than three minutes, you still try to get things done from home."
This applies to those who do the downsizing -- namely, bosses -- as well as those farther down the organizational pyramid. Penny Glazier, an owner of several Manhattan restaurants, missed four nights of table-hopping and two days in the office. But miss work? Not a chance.
"I dragged myself into the room at home where I have a fax machine and tried to take care of paperwork," she said. "I felt so far removed from what was going on that it was difficult to stay in bed and not constantly be thinking about what I was supposed to be doing. I had a big breakfast meeting planned. We were inviting all these event planners from major corporations. I had the sales kit on my mind, and in the end I did it over the fax machine."
Ms. Glazier is not alone. Some flu sufferers live for the four or five hours when they can get something -- anything -- done.
"Being able to work was an important part of the recuperation," said Christopher W. Hunt, the editor in chief of Workplace America, a newsletter that follows employment trends. He was out sick for a week. "As long as you pace yourself and yet know that work's getting done, that makes you feel better," he said.
Dr. Robert Campbell, the medical director of Gracie Square Hospital in Manhattan, said that hard-driving flu sufferers face the usual dilemma -- "whether to give in to the illness or to push themselves and try to do, inadequately, the work they shouldn't be doing." But the longer recuperation period this year presents a different problem.
"They've got all this time, so they think they should be happy, or at least relieved," he said. "But they really do feel sick, and that interferes with their ability to watch television, to appreciate humor. They don't have the attention span, they fall asleep in the middle of it. They just aren't accustomed to that, and that throws them for a loop."
People who fall sick while on business trips are thrown for an even bigger loop: a day cooped up in a strange hotel room in a strange city goes by slowly, as Gail J. Franck, a management consultant from Manhattan, discovered when she came down with the flu in Boston.
"I would basically sleep for four hours, do four hours of work, or try to, and sleep for hours and hours," she said. After four days, she felt well enough to go home. On the fifth day, she slogged into the office and quickly lost her voice.
"All you want to do is have your mom come and take care of you," she said, "but your mom doesn't have two weeks to do that. Everybody that you talk to is happy to commiserate and tell you they had it and share their home remedies."
Home remedies? Diana David was so unaccustomed to spending a week in her apartment that she began working on remedies for her home. "It's in a sorry state of neglect, as are homes of people who are married to their jobs," she said of her apartment on the Upper West Side. "Every time my temperature went down, I'd start cleaning the windows, but slowly." She called a cleaning service to tackle her dirt-encrusted Venetian blinds where, she said, "the dirt weighs more than the blinds."
Even home-repair people have been at home. Dennis Michaels, a contractor in Manhattan, took two days off. "The first day, you're so upset, you just throw the TV on because that's the easiest thing," he said. "After a couple of hours, you're even more disgusted. It's all talk shows. When you were a kid, TV was more fun. The second day, you switch to books, but you're constantly thinking, 'When am I going to get better? One more day? Two more days?' The third day, I went out and tried to do the things I was supposed to do, and ended up back in bed."
Frank English, a photographer for the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, said that the hardest part of his weeklong convalescence was not being able to talk about the flu.
"You feel like you're at one with everybody because you're sick with the same bug, but you can't share your fear," he said. "It seems overwrought. You don't want to go to the emergency room, because there are people there who really need help. And you can't call your doctor because what is he going to tell you? It would be good to get some clarification, but by the time they can do a culture and figure out what the bug is, it will probably be gone."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA; LABOR CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); INFLUENZA (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES PENNY GLAZIER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



3 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Union Decides to Keep Contract-Signing Freeze

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
On the eve of the resumption of negotiations with the owners, the executive board of the baseball players' union decided today to continue the freeze on contract-signings, potentially preventing some players from signing multimillion-dollar contracts but also disrupting the plans of some teams to improve themselves by signing those players.
The board also voted to advise players on major league 40-man rosters not to report to spring training when camps open in a couple of weeks and to ask players not on 40-man rosters to refrain from playing in exhibition games in Florida and Arizona with strikebreaking, or replacement, players. 
 None of those moves was surprising, but they emphasized, just in case anyone had forgotten during the 40-day absence from the bargaining table, that the two sides remain in a highly agitated state of labor strife.
They will resume talks Wednesday under an urgent directive from President Clinton to settle their differences by next Monday, but neither the White House nor any other interested party is in position at the moment to force an agreement.
In a news conference after the board meeting, which 46 players from 24 clubs attended, Donald Fehr, their labor leader, said the players' "desire is to negotiate day by day by day by day until it's done." But he cautioned, "I think they know what it will take to put us within shouting range of an agreement. We'll see if they're interested in it."
The players won't have to wait long. The owners' negotiating committee met here today and completed work on a new proposal it will present Wednesday.
"The proposal will be a comprehensive one, wall to wall, unlike our prior proposals, which have dealt strictly with the central economic issue," Chuck O'Connor, management's chief labor lawyer, said. "It is, in our view, an indication of significant movement in some important areas, and it is a serious effort to get negotiations off dead center and respond to the President's call."
O'Connor, who declined to provide details, said the "significant movement" he mentioned included the core economic issue. The owners' previous proposals have called for a salary cap (which they implemented Dec. 23) or payroll taxes that the players viewed as the equivalent of a cap.
In all instances, the owners' aim has been to reduce the players' share of industry revenue to 50 percent. It would have been an estimated 58 percent if last season had been played uninterrupted.
Talks are scheduled to begin at 10 A.M. at the Mayflower Hotel. Dick Conn, a spokesman for Bill Usery Jr., said the mediator had no plans to meet with each side separately before holding a joint session, as he often has done since joining the talks Oct. 14.
Following the players' meeting, Fehr said the signing freeze would remain in effect until the board decides otherwise.
"We believe it's appropriate that contracts be signed only under a system that everyone agrees to and represents a fair and negotiated settlement," he said. "More importantly, we believe the system unilaterally implemented by the owners was unlawfully implemented."
No player has signed a major league contract since the salary-cap implementation. The players most immediately affected by the extension of the freeze are the 38 players who became restricted free agents under the new system.
Under the rules imposed by the clubs, those players have until Feb. 6, next Monday, to receive and sign an offer sheet from a club other than their last one and until Feb. 15 to sign with that club. Otherwise, they would have to return to their former club.
The two most notable cases involve two Montreal players, pitcher Ken Hill and outfielder Marquis Grissom. Their agents have tentatively negotiated offers with the Florida Marlins -- 5 years, $27.5 million for Grissom and 5 years, $25 million for Hill -- and the Expos would not be expected to match them under the right-of-first-refusal rule that makes these free agents restricted.
But if the players go past the deadline without meeting the requirements, they would lose the chance to receive those contracts and the Marlins would lose the chance to improve their team with a top-flight center fielder and a front-line pitcher.
"We've talked to those players," David Cone, a member of the negotiating committee, said, meaning all of the restricted free agents. "To a man, all understand the situation and agree the freeze should go on."
Asked about those players, Fehr said: "We've initiated some contacts about that. I'm hopeful by tomorrow that won't be an issue. If it is, I'll have a lot more to say about it then."
Two people familiar with what Fehr was alluding to said the union has asked Usery to ask the clubs' representatives whether they would agree to set aside the deadlines. O'Connor said he had not heard from the union or Usery about the matter.
Asked whether the clubs would agree to such a request, he said, "I don't know. That would be something our committee would have to look at."
Fehr did not disclose the position the board adopted on players not on 40-man rosters, but people who attended the meeting said the board will not ask them not to report to camp, but that its preference is they don't because they would be in a position of helping replacement players prepare for replacement games.
However, these sources said, the board will ask the players not to play in exhibition games because they would be replacement exhibition games.
The board took no action of the status of managers, coaches and trainers, who belong to the union's health and benefit plans and licensing program. Union officials plan to meet with them in Dallas next Monday.
 
INSIDE PITCH
 RICHARD BRODSKY, the New York state Assemblyman, did not, as he said he would, introduce legislation that would bar the Mets and Yankees from using replacement players at New York's two publicly owned stadiums. A Brodsky aide, ED FISCHMAN, said the bill was being prepared by the bill-drafting commission and would not be introduced before next Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; CONTRACTS BASEBALL (93%); STRIKES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



4 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: GOLF;
Smoothly Covering the Course for PGA Tour

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PEBBLE BEACH, Calif., Jan. 31

 BODY:
The commissioner of the PGA Tour was striding through the organization's offices in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., recently, checking his watch, talking about membership requirements and looking to make certain that workers were correctly taping the seams on a new wallboard.
His pace was brisk and purposeful. Then he spotted something on the carpet, to the left of his polished black wing tip. It was a tiny piece of Styrofoam packing popcorn. Without breaking stride, he bent over and scooped it up, veering just slightly off course so he could toss it into a wastebasket as he continued down the hallway. 
 Tim Finchem, it seems, doesn't miss a thing. No detail is too small, no situation too trifling, no point too obscure. Since he took office last June 1, replacing Deane Beman as the commissioner, Finchem, 47, has personally visited each member of the PGA Tour and the Senior PGA Tour and most members of the Nike Tour. He has spoken to the more than 100 tour co-sponsors and has met with potential sponsors. During one withering three-month blitz from June through September, he logged more than 100,000 air miles in a quest to alert players to upcoming problems and to listen to any complaints they might have about the way the tour looks after their affairs.
"Tim is the kind of person who, at the end of the day, will have analyzed a problem from every possible angle," said Alistair Johnston, senior executive vice president of the influential International Management Group. "And he is always looking for the solution. Usually, he finds one."
Within the last three months, Greg Norman and the organizers of the proposed World Golf Tour found out just how fastidious Finchem's attention to detail can be. When Finchem learned about plans by Norman to announce the startup of the rival tour, he launched the most efficient pre-emptive strike golf has ever seen. Two days before Norman was to make his announcement, Finchem issued a news release outlining the World Tour proposal and listing his opposition to specific parts of it.
He explained that he and the tour were very much in favor of growth in the game and worldwide inclusion, but not growth that would destroy the foundation of the PGA Tour and others around the world. He was joined in that opposition by the heads of most major golf organizations worldwide. PGA Tour players joined the chorus. Weeks after its inception, the World Golf Tour sits dead in the water, without players, sites or sponsors. Norman has gradually backed away from the concept.
It wasn't by happenstance that Finchem received such blanket overnight support. In the first 90 days of his tenure, he laid the groundwork. "I thought early on that the only way for me to do this job was to open up and keep open the lines of communication with the players and the other organizations," Finchem said. "You need to be able to build a consensus. If you get into a crisis of some sort, you need friends, you need support."
Finchem built the consensus necessary to meet the first crisis head-on and subdue it. This came as no surprise to the people who know him. It has been his way since he entered the University of Richmond on a debate scholarship, went on to the University of Virginia Law School and gravitated toward Washington, where he served as an economic adviser to President Jimmy Carter and became the staff director of the Carter-Mondale presidential campaign in 1980.
Now he will face more crises. The Federal Trade Commission investigation into the rules of the PGA Tour has occupied most of his time recently. Before coming here to meet with the rules officials and field staff of the tour, he spent four days in Washington, meeting with friendly politicians in Congress to brief them about the tour's position. Should the F.T.C. commissioners decide to recommend an action against the tour, ruling that its policies regarding conflicting events and television releases are "restricting product," Finchem might go right to the Hill in an effort to get legislation so the tour could avoid a lengthy court battle.
"It's a decision we'll have to make once it becomes clear how the commissioners will rule," said Finchem, adding that a ruling could come as early as mid-February.
Finchem is a dapper man, small of frame, standing about 5 feet 7 inches. His suits are perfectly tailored, his nails are manicured and his dark, slightly wavy hair is held captive by some industrial-strength mousse. Since taking over for Beman, who resigned March 1, 1994 after 20 years on the job, he has worked mostly 12 to 14 hours a day, rising at 5 A.M. to work out and laboring at the office through the day and into the evening.
"I am a workaholic," he admitted. "But the demands of this job are formidable. I've learned that there's a big difference between being the No. 1 guy and the No. 2 guy in terms of responsibility."
It is also a different game in terms of exposure. That Finchem is an emerging force in the big-time world of sports commissioners is a given, but just where does he fit? Paul Tagliabue, the National Football League commissioner, had the good fortune of taking over for Pete Rozelle, one of the smoothest public relations men of all time. David Stern, the National Basketball Association commissioner, took over a drug-infested, fiscally faltering league, instituted Draconian anti-drug policies and a salary cap, and resuscitated the game. For this, by the way, he is paid more than many of the players.
The jury is still out on Stern's disciple, Gary Bettman, the National Hockey League commissioner who at least was able to convince the hockey owners that it was a bad idea to kill their sport just when people were starting to notice it. There essentially is no baseball commissioner, and boxing and tennis are promoter-driven nightmares.
Finchem, who earns $700,000 a year plus bonuses that could push him over $1 million, presides over a sport with possibly the cleanest image of all.
"I've said many times that the image of our sport is the most important thing we have," Finchem said. He really believes that. Example: When Craig Stadler was hit with a two-stroke penalty at the Mercedes Championships for allegedly teeing off late -- even though he was on the tee and wasn't announced -- there was some negative press. Finchem, who doesn't mind a fight but deplores controversy, issued a three-page document clarifying Rule 6-3 and sent it to the tour rules officials.
When he came into the job, he seemed at first glance to be similar to his predecessor, Beman, the tough, confrontational bulldog of a man who oversaw huge growth on the tour: assets increased from $730,000 in 1974 to more than $200 million in 1994, with total revenues up from $3.9 million to $229 million under Beman. But Finchem is not nearly as combative as Beman. He is a bridge-builder.
Already he has reached out to woo possible title sponsorship from Karsten Manufacturing Co., the Phoenix-based club producer that engaged the tour in a fierce and expensive legal battle over the legality of square-grooved Ping Eye2 irons (the case was settled). He fired off a couple of conciliatory letters to the comedian Bill Murray, who was exiled by Beman from the AT&T National Pro-Am last year for conduct Beman deemed unacceptable. Murray is back in the field at Pebble Beach this week. Finchem tried to find equitable ways to accommodate foreign players wishing to compete on the PGA Tour, and Nick Faldo and Ernie Els both joined the tour this year.
Finchem's approach has held other surprises. At the Tour Championship in December, he bought 15 tickets and put together an outing for some players to the Rolling Stones concert in Oakland.
The PGA Tour commish at the Voodoo Lounge?
"Great concert," he said. "It was better than the Steel Wheels tour back in '89. Tighter. The orchestration was better."
During the concert, Finchem found himself next to a rather scraggly fellow who had a large cloud of what appeared to be cannabis smoke hanging over his head. The man took a look at the PGA Tour logo on Finchem's jacket.
"Hey, man, you in golf?"
"Yeah. I'm in golf."
"Cool."
Cool. So far, that's as accurate an assessment of Finchem's tenure as any. He has coolly and methodically built a base of support. He is popular among the players, sponsors and staff. There are tough issues and challenges ahead. He probably won't beat all of them. But one thing is certain: they won't take him by surprise. So far, nothing has.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tim Finchem, during his first year as commissioner of the PGA Tour, has built a consensus while turning aside a challenge from a proposed rival tour. (pg. B9); Tim Finchem, an emerging force in the world of big-time sports commissioners, is weathering tough tests. (pg. B13) (Stephen Morton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PGA TOUR INC INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PGA TOUR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOLF (91%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: DORMAN, LARRY; FINCHEM, TIMOTHY W TIM FINCHEM (94%); GREG NORMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



5 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE 

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mass.

 BODY:
IN a lift to the real estate market in Springfield, the third-largest city in Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company is rejuvenating its property in the central business district and plans to bring in new commercial operations in the process.
Two weeks ago, demolition began on the site of a vacant department store, Steiger's, on almost an acre of land across the street from Baystate West, a 1.6-million-square-foot mixed-use complex that Massachusetts Life built and owns. The company, which bought the 80,000-square-foot store from the city for $1 in December, intends to find a developer to build a cinema complex there. 
 The redevelopment plan is part of a $10 million effort to upgrade Baystate West, particularly its retail component, to which the company hopes to attract large discount stores. Baystate West consists of a 29-story office tower, a 264-room Marriott Hotel, a two-story, 200,000-square-foot retail mall and parking for 1,120 cars. Massachusetts Life, which has its campus headquarters elsewhere in Springfield, developed Baystate West as a real estate venture in the early 1970's. The vacancy rate is now 9 percent for offices and 16 percent for retail space.
Springfield, a city of 155,000 people 90 miles west of Boston and behind Boston and Worcester in size, sees itself as the regional hub of western Massachusetts. Its planning officials hailed the Massachusetts Mutual project as one that might help get the city out of its recessionary doldrums. The project calls attention to the benefit certain New England cities have derived from being home to major insurers.
For instance, last fall the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, finished a $7 million renovation of its 780,000-square-foot headquarters, built in 1947 in the Back Bay section of Boston. It reinstalled 30,000 square feet of retail space at street level, which it had converted into offices as the company grew. In the last few years, however, it cut its staff from 2,750 to 2,300, and therefore no longer needs that space for offices. The New England has leased 23,000 square feet of the renovated retail space, which opened in November.
It also rebuilt and landscaped the sidewalk along Newbury Street, a choice retail location, and along Boylston Street, which is parallel.
Now, the ground-floor space, once an expense, will generate about $1.1 million a year in rental income, Peter Harrington, the company's spokesman, said.
Several blocks down Boylston Street, the Prudential Insurance Company completed in 1993 an $85 million renovation of the 1.7-million-square-foot office and retail complex that it built there in 1965.
In the last 15 months, the remodeled retail and common areas have helped decrease the office vacancy rate at this complex to 7.5 percent now from 19.1 percent, said Mark R. Friedlander, a company spokesman.
In Hartford, which has 10.7 million square feet of offices, insurance companies occupy about five million square feet. In 1992, the largest among them, the Aetna Life and Casualty Corporation, completed a $200 million rehabilitation of its two-million-square-foot headquarters there.
Now the Phoenix Home Mutual Life Insurance Company is doing a $5.3 million renovation to a 75,000-square-foot building it bought in May from the Travelers Inc., for $7 million. Phoenix is enclosing an outdoor courtyard to build 6,000 square feet of additional offices on two floors.
In Springfield, the insurance, computer and military companies have scaled down, failed or folded. Its unemployment -- 7.4 percent before seasonal adjustment -- is higher than the state average of 5.3 percent, and its job creation is lagging, Sara L. Johnson, a regional economist at DRI-McGraw Hill said.
For instance, a 400,000-square-foot office/hotel complex built in 1986 by the now troubled Monarch Insurance Company for about $130 million was recently sold at auction for $25 million, David F. Moriarty, Springfield's director of planning, said.
But, with its relatively low business operating costs and good transportation, including Interstate 91, a north-south highway, and the Massachusetts Turnpike, an east-west road, "Springfield's rate of decline is moderating," Ms. Johnson said.
While the downtown still has distressed pockets, the 1980's boom brought in 900 new units of housing -- rental apartments and condominiums -- and almost two million square feet of offices, stores and hotels.
Massachusetts Life plans to spend $9 million to refurbish the retail space at Baystate West and $1 million on the Steiger's demolition. "We want to have a vital downtown so we can attract a viable work force," Joseph Mondy, a company spokesman, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PICL (NEP) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (92%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (61%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (92%); NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (81%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (61%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD (MASS); UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FINANCES REAL ESTATE (91%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); 

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



6 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: At the Atlanta Games, Culture Will Be a Serious Competitor

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 31

 BODY:
To some skeptics, using the five Olympic rings as the symbol for an exhibition of 130 of the world's greatest works of art is a trifle unseemly. But don't tell that to J. Carter Brown, the former director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington.
"Because there is so much fame attached to the Olympics, it would be very easy to take the knee-jerk reaction that everything is just part of a big sideshow," said Mr. Brown, the man behind "Rings: Five Passions in World Art," which will be the centerpiece of the Cultural Olympiad that is being held here in conjunction with the 1996 Summer Olympics. "It has nothing to do with a logo. It's about interconnectedness, and if there is anything more important to the future of this planet, I'd like to know what it is." 
 Clearly, the stakes are high for Mr. Brown's show, which has a $3 million budget and uses the five Olympic rings to refer to 8,000 years of art representing the universal emotions of love, anguish, awe, triumph and joy. The exhibition was commissioned by Ned Rifkin, the director of the High Museum in Atlanta, and will be mounted there in 1996 from early July to the end of September. But the stakes and contradictions pretty well sum up the Cultural Olympiad, a sometimes awkward mix of art and sports that is part of each Olympics. Indeed the contradictions may be greater than ever when Atlanta tries to mix fine art, mass entertainment and Southern culture for the Summer Games.
There will be new plays by Sam Shepherd and Alfred Uhry. There will be music ranging from James Brown to Jessye Norman, from Mahler to Willie Nelson. This spring, there will be a unique gathering of Nobel laureates in literature. During the Olympics, in addition to "Rings," exhibitions will include "Souls Grown Deep: African-American Vernacular Art of the South," an ambitious collection of the work of black Southern artists being planned by the staff of the Michael C. Carlos Museum at Emory University.
Most of the cultural events will take place during the Summer Games, from July 19, 1996, through Aug. 4, but some events, including "Rings," will extend beyond that period, and others, like the gathering of Nobel laureates and celebrations of Africa, Mexico and Norway, will have taken place by the time the Games start.
Whether this all will turn out to be art, circus or some blend of the two remains to be seen. But the details are finally coming together for Atlanta's Cultural Olympiad, which has been quietly inching forward for three years, with a budget of $25 million. It is expected to include more than 750 performers and artisans and draw 3 million people, and is being billed as the most ambitious cultural effort in Olympic history.
Not everyone, of course, is a believer. Already there is grumbling that efforts like the Nobel gathering and particularly Mr. Brown's extravaganza are misguided attempts at cultural blockbusters, rounding up the superstars of writing and painting with the superstars of the decathlon and water polo. These critics say the Cultural Olympiad will be to serious art what Kenny G is to cutting-edge jazz.
"It strikes me as an unconvincing thesis and a misguided idea for an exhibition," Keith Christiansen, a curator of European paintings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, said of "Rings." "They put the Olympic rings on T-shirts and beer cans, so why not on an art exhibition? It's about as meaningful as that, isn't it?"
But despite some skepticism about some of the programs, and about Atlanta's cultural credentials, organizers are confident they have put together an ambitious, even potentially inspired, mix of international art and culture and that of the American South.
Jeffrey Babcock, a founder of the New World Symphony in Miami and the director of the Cultural Olympiad, seems entirely comfortable with its mix of funk, flash, grit and show biz. "What we're doing is different than creating and presenting a free-standing independent arts festival," said Mr. Babcock, who was in Los Angeles with the Philharmonic when the 1984 Summer Olympics were held in that city. "Our mission is to enhance the overall Olympic experience, to be an important add-on component of the Games experience. You can't compare this with a festival like Spoleto."
Similarly, Mr. Rifkin of the High Museum said he was not worried about the art world sniping at "Rings." "If people want to call it hokey, that's fine," he said. "I know there will be critics no matter what you do. But if it works to bring people to begin to see and appreciate works of art of different cultures it will be very successful. It's trying to be populist in spirit, and it's only because of the Olympics that we have the opportunity to do it."
On the surface, art and athletics may not have much to do with each other, but in fact from the time of ancient Greece the Olympics have integrated sports and culture. The form has varied in recent years. In Los Angeles, a small group hired by the Olympic organizers put on the cultural festivities, which were criticized locally as lacking in community involvement. In Barcelona, Spain, organization of the Cultural Olympiad was kept entirely separate from that of the Olympics, as a way to enhance its artistic independence. But its organizers ran out of money six months before the Games started, and many people felt the cultural events that did take place were difficult to find.
Atlanta has tried to involve as many people as possible from the city and regional art communities. And in keeping with its "run it like a business" civic ethic, it has taken a route opposite to that taken by Barcelona. Planning of the cultural programs is fully integrated into the planning of the Olympics, to such a degree that visitors will be able to buy a package that might include the javelin throw, women's basketball, the Atlanta Symphony and the Dallas Black Dance Theater.
That approach has helped with fund-raising and efficiency, but it has at times led to clashes between the Olympic organizers and the local arts community. Many kinks have been ironed out, but some in Atlanta's arts world still see the organizers, including Billy Payne, the president of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, as intrusive micromanagers with no feeling for art.
"There's a narrowness of vision there," said one cultural figure who would only speak anonymously. "They see art as a dangerous business. It could be controversial."
From the beginning, this Cultural Olympiad has had to deal with at least two other major hurdles. The first was the extraordinary expectations raised when the Summer Games were awarded to the city. These included an idea that, as Mr. Babcock put it, "somehow the Olympics would absolutely transform the cultural life of Atlanta."
Second was that Atlanta, despite its go-go economy, isn't exactly a cultural powerhouse, particularly in the visual arts: most people agree that gallery space and the amount of major art being produced are less than world class.
"Atlanta has a relatively weak infrastructure compared to other American cities," said Louise Shaw, director of the Nexus Contemporary Arts Center. "There is not enough exhibition space, not enough high-quality, fully equipped theaters. There was hope the Olympics would spur a new symphony hall, but that's not going to happen.
"Years ago, when I was in Houston, the city had been in a recession but they built a new opera house and commissioned 'Nixon in China.' Back then, I said I couldn't imagine Atlanta doing that. I'd say the same thing now."
Many of the details -- from the artworks that will be included in "Rings" to the names of most of the performers, to the content of the Festival of the American South -- have not been announced or even finally agreed upon.
Still, despite early worries about financial backing and the pace of planning, arts groups in Atlanta and the region are now relatively upbeat about the Cultural Olympiad.
"We've already been through the five stages of a project: excitement, disillusionment, panic, the blaming of the innocent and the praising of those not involved," said Maxwell L. Anderson, director of the Carlos Museum, which is mounting an exhibition of the work of the Alabama artist Thornton Dial at the museum in addition to "Souls Grown Deep" at City Hall East.
"People learned pretty quickly this would not be a panacea, but I think it's going to de-Bubba-ize us," Mr. Anderson said. "People will see Atlanta differently from the stereotypes it's easy to have from afar."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (58%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (58%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; ART; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) OLYMPICS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER J CARTER BROWN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



7 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
New Clinton Plan on Mexico Spurs Big Rally in Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose sharply against leading currencies yesterday after President Clinton announced moves to deal with Mexico's financial crisis.
The proposal includes a loan of $20 billion from the Treasury's Exchange Stabilization Fund, which is used to help stabilize the dollar against large currency fluctuations. The International Monetary Fund agreed to lend another $10 billion beyond the $7.5 billion it promised last week, and central banks around the world will lend $10 billion. 
 With the plan, Mr. Clinton is sidestepping Congress, which had seemed increasingly reluctant to approve a previous proposal for $40 billion in loan guarantees.
News of the relief plan surprised the currency markets and eased mounting concerns that Mexico's troubles would worsen and spread elsewhere in Latin America. The threat of continued instability with some of the United States' biggest trading partners had put downward pressure on the dollar.
In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar, which touched a three-month low of 1.5015 German marks on Monday, rebounded to 1.5238 marks from 1.5054 marks late Monday.
The dollar also rose yesterday to 1.2855 Swiss francs from 1.2672 francs on Monday, and to 99.57 Japanese yen from 98.42 yen. The British pound slipped to $1.5795 from $1.5955
The dollar was bolstered by the President's announcement in part because the new relief plan is denominated less in dollars and more in foreign currencies.
"The market was positioned for disappointment, so it was caught short," said Ron Leven, global currency strategist at J. P. Morgan. "In addition, under the old package Mexico would have only gotten dollars. Now they are going to have a whole basket of currencies."
With a greater proportion of funds coming from countries outside the United States through institutions like the International Monetary Fund, the dollar was seen as less vulnerable should Mexico be forced to rely heavily on the package.
But while the Mexican plan bolstered the dollar, currency dealers said yesterday's action was not the start of a prolonged rally.
"The upside for the dollar is still very limited," Mr. Leven added. "There still appears to be a lot of selling interest around 1.53 marks."
In other trading, the Canadian dollar rose to 71.09 United States cents, from 70.42 cents on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN DELAWARE (54%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CURRENCIES (96%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRITISH POUND (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



8 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Plan to Expand Disneyland Is Canceled

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ANAHEIM, Calif., Jan. 31

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company has shelved plans for a $2.75 billion resort development that would have doubled the size of Disneyland.
In a meeting on Monday, Disney project managers told city officials, who had helped line up tax money for improvements, that they still intended to develop land around Disneyland, but on a smaller scale. 
 The decision was a disappointment to local officials and businesses that had counted on Disneyland to attract more tourists to this area of Orange County.
However, local homeowners who opposed the project on grounds of greater noise, air pollution and traffic were pleased. "I guess it's good news," said Curtis Stricker, founder of Anaheim Home, a neighborhood group, of Disney's decision. "But it's time they level with the people and tell them what they're going to do."
In disclosing its decision, the company was not explicit about future plans. "We still have this vision of creating a theme park that will work, but one that would not accommodate as many" visitors, said Disneyland's new president, Paul Pressler. "What we had originally envisioned was a very, very large resort. What we are looking at today is the ability to break it into component parts and build on it."
Responding to speculation that Orange County's declaration of bankruptcy had been a factor in the decision, Mr. Pressler said it was not.
The scaling back of Disneyland's expansion was one of a number of recent reversals in company plans or prospects. Last September, Disney canceled plans to build a $650 million Civil War theme park in northern Virginia, a project opposed both by historians and local residents. And over the last two years, Euro Disneyland, outside Paris, has proved to be a big financial drain on the parent company.
The Westcot Center project here had envisioned an international theme park, an amphitheater, a lagoon, two of the nation's biggest parking structures and 4,600 new hotel rooms in the area.
It was estimated that the project would have brought 27,000 jobs. Anaheim increased its hotel bed tax and approved rezoning. Gov. Pete Wilson of California organized a $60 million state finance package, and Congress allocated transportation money.
The project's cost was first estimated at $2.75 billion; later estimates put it as high as $3 billion.
But Disney never committed itself to proceeding. The company said it had passed on six options to purchase land in the heart of the planned development because the plots were too expensive. "It did not make sense, given the price," said David Malmuth, a vice president of the Disney Development Company.
Anaheim's city manager, James D. Ruth, said he remained optimistic. "They are still committed to developing in Anaheim, but will do so incrementally," Mr. Ruth said. "A lot of time, effort and energy has gone into getting us where we are, and we don't think that is lost."
Stan Pawlowski, co-chairman of a community group, Westcot 2000, remarked: "They probably took a look and said that $3 billion is unrealistic today, but something is possible. Even though it's not the full loaf, half a loaf is better than nothing."
Southern California's tourist industry had regarded the project as an antidote to recession, earthquakes and rioting. While Los Angeles tourism increased last year, Orange County recorded the lowest number of visitors -- 37.1 million -- in at least eight years.
Disney's shares closed today at $50.875, down 25 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); EDL (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF); DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%); EURO DISNEY SCA (58%); WESTCOT CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF); DISNEY, WALT, CO WESTCOT CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANAHEIM (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; FINANCES; TAXATION AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); RESORTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); HISTORY (64%); AIR POLLUTION (55%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



9 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Mexican Shadow Falls On Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
For the emerging markets of the world, January was the month that investors began to focus on what could go wrong, not on what could go right.
The result was substantial losses for investors in almost every emerging market, losses that are still large even after the strong revivals in Mexican and other Latin American markets yesterday after the Clinton Administration disclosed a new rescue package for Mexico. 
At the same time, many third-world currencies have come under pressure, as investors sought to get out rather than risk another devaluation. Central banks have intervened to defend currencies, and in some cases have sought to identify the speculators who were putting pressure on their currencies.
The declines have perplexed and in some cases angered governments, which argue that their countries are not Mexico and have not made the same mistakes its Government did. But Wall Street analysts, who had focused on a rosy outlook for economic growth in the third world, have turned instead to looking at possible problems.
Countries that have been running substantial current-account deficits in trade and services -- and therefore were extremely reliant on foreign capital -- were quickly identified as possibly vulnerable. So were countries with relatively low reserves of foreign currency. Mexico had faced both problems before it devalued the peso in December, but most analysts had been unconcerned. Now, suddenly, there was great worry.
Countries identified by Merrill Lynch as having big current-account deficits included the Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand. Those with low foreign-exchange reserves included China, Indonesia, South Korea and the Philippines.
Mexico's stock market was the worst performer for the month for foreign investors, losing 22.3 percent in dollar terms despite a surge yesterday that saw some share prices rise more than 20 percent. But it was hardly alone. Other stock markets that saw prices fall by more than 10 percent in the month included those of the Philippines, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, India, Pakistan, Peru, Turkey and Hungary.
To many countries, the change in investor focus has been baffling. The most successful countries in attracting foreign capital, in many cases because of promising investment possibilities, were often running large current-account deficits.
One result has been a tendency to view the enemy as speculators who are betting against the country, either by shorting stocks in it -- that is, selling stocks that are not owned in hopes their price will decline -- or by shorting the country's currency. Currency values in most developing nations are pegged by their governments, as was Mexico's before the devaluation.
Asian central banks held an unusual meeting and said they planned to share information on the identity of speculators betting against their currencies.
In Malaysia, where the stock market fell 9.2 percent in January, the Government has announced plans to toughen laws banning stock manipulation and short-selling. In addition to larger fines, Malaysia proposed to cane -- that is, whip -- violators. And, as was typical in many countries, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia said he thought stocks were a good investment.
As the stock markets suffered, Mexico's problems were far from the only ones cited. There has been widespread fear that the Federal Reserve Board, which is expected to push up American short-term interest rates today, will damage emerging economies, as well. And the Japanese earthquake has evidently caused a number of Japanese institutions to pull in their horns, too, and take money out of Asian stock markets.
The decline in many emerging markets began well before last month, but even with substantial losses in many markets in 1994, enthusiasm for the idea of investing in such countries remained high. Barton M. Biggs, the international strategist for Morgan Stanley, argues that the emerging-market bear market is now 13 months old. "I think we are very close to the end of the cyclical bear market," he said yesterday.
Over the years, the amount of public and press attention that has lately been given to Mexico has often come only when a problem is at its worst, and soon to improve. If that is the case now, then emerging markets may generally be bottoming.
That will be true if investors are willing to go back to the way they used to think, before they were stunned by Mexico, focusing on possibilities for growth and on hopes of drawing in money from those who want the big returns that are difficult to get in more established markets.
The success of President Clinton in putting together a bailout proposal, despite Congressional opposition, could help to bring about that attitude, at least for a while. Many American investors -- those who bought Mexican debt that was denominated in dollars but payable in pesos -- seem more likely to emerge whole. Perhaps that will help investors to forget January's terror.
If not, if the month does serve as a powerful reminder of the risks of investing in developing countries, then it could set back the flow of capital to such countries -- and to the stock markets -- for years to come.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Ripple Effects of the Peso" shows the change in leading market indexes of Latin America, Europe and Asia in January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (91%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA; MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (91%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CURRENCY EMERGING MARKETS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); DEVALUATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



10 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Rally On Clinton's Mexico Move

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
In one of the busiest sessions on record, financial markets rallied as the Clinton Administration took quick action to aid Mexico. Stocks recovered, bonds rebounded and the dollar soared as the imminent threat receded of Mexico defaulting on its debt.
The announcement of the aid package also lifted a burden from the Federal Reserve Board and its chairman, Alan Greenspan, as the Fed's policy-making committee concludes a two-day meeting today. If, as traders expect, the Fed raises interest rates today or later this month, higher rates would have further damaged Mexico's economy without a rescue plan in place. 
 "This frees up the hand of Mr. Greenspan," said Jose Cerritelli, a fixed-income strategist for Baring Securities Inc., which specializes in emerging-market securities. "If interest rates were raised, it would have struck at the heart of Mexico. Now the dagger has been removed."
The new plan, offered in tandem with the International Monetary Fund and Bank for International Settlements, could raise the total amount of financial aid to Mexico to as much as $50 billion in loans and loan guarantees from $40 billion and does not require lengthy Congressional approval.
"It's even better than the previous plan," said Paul Hennessey, senior vice president for the Boston Company, which manages $16 billion worth of stocks. "It's got more dough and it's quicker."
Whether the markets will remain sanguine is an open question. The new plan also extends loan maturities from months to as long as 10 years and lacks details from important lenders, including the I.M.F.
"We're on the hook forever, basically," said David De Rosa, a director of foreign-exchange trading at Swiss Bank in New York. "But the markets knew it was coming. When a person is about to become insolvent, you either write off the debt or extend the maturity."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 11.78 points, to 3,843.86, as trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange hit 409.5 million shares, the ninth-busiest session on record. The exchange also reported that January was the busiest month on record, with average daily volume of 325 million shares, compared to daily volume of 315.7 million shares in January 1994.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 1.91 points, to 470.42. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 3.37 points, to 755.20.
The dollar rallied, rising to 99.57 yen from 98.42 Japanese yen and advancing to 1.5238 German marks from 1.5054 marks. Bonds rallied, too. The yield on the benchmark 30-year bond fell to 7.69 percent from 7.75 percent.
The biggest movers in stocks were mostly related to Mexico and Latin America. The American depository receipts of Telefonos de Mexico, the Mexican telephone company, rose 4 5/8, to 35 3/8. It was one of the day's most active stocks, with 17.66 million shares traded.
Similarly, the A.D.R.'s of Grupo Televisa, a leading broadcaster in Mexico, rose 5, to 24. And Compania de Telefonos de Chile, the Chilean telephone carrier, rose 4 3/8, to 73 3/8.
The A.D.R.'s of the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, parent of the MCA film studio, dropped 6 5/8, to 140 1/8, after an article in The Wall Street Journal reported that "Waterworld," a film the studio is producing, may be most expensive ever, at up to $175 million.
The Taiwan Fund, a closed-end mutual fund for Taiwanese stocks, fell 5 3/8 to 23 1/8 after its shares traded ex-dividend, the period when the company does not pay a dividend. Premark International, which sells Tupperware plastic products, fell 5 1/4 to 41 after the company said the devalued Mexican peso and the Japan earthquake would hurt 1995 earnings.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.03 points, to 255.93; advancing stocks outnumbered decliners 1,289 to 918. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 1.82 points, to 435.36.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) BOSTON CO INC (67%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); GERMAN MARK (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



11 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Labor Costs Show Small Increase

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The Employment Cost Index, which measures the wages, salaries and benefits paid to American workers, rose during the last 12 months by only 3 percent, the smallest annual increase on record, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
That restrained increase in the Government's most comprehensive measure of labor costs gives strong statistical support to a growing impression among some economists that a fundamental change may be taking place. More than in the past, wages and benefits have failed to rise in response to robust economic growth and low unemployment. Labor costs eased off even in the fourth quarter of last year, rising only seven-tenths of 1 percent. That matched the record low for a single quarter. 
 "Labor shortages are simply not translating into wage pressures, even in areas like the Carolinas and the Midwest, where the unemployment rate is very low," said Thomas Plewes, an associate commissioner of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics. "If this were a normal recovery, one would have expected more wage pressure by now. But the world is not the old way anymore."
The latest Employment Cost Index, an indicator issued quarterly since 1982, came out only hours before the Federal Reserve's policy-making Open Market Committee began a two-day meeting to consider whether to raise interest rates again. The Fed's goal would be to slow the economy, thus easing labor shortages -- and the wage pressures and rising inflation that in the past have resulted from labor shortages.
"I guarantee you that this latest data on employment costs entered into the debate today at the Federal Reserve, but it will probably not change the outcome," said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company.
Like many on Wall Street, Mr. Roach believes the Fed's policy makers will announce today an increase in short-term rates, the seventh increase in a year. The Fed, they note, deals in expectations of what will happen in the future, not what has already happened.
Some Fed policy makers, in recent statements, have expressed the view that labor costs must rise, despite the mild increases so far. What will inevitably make that happen, they said, is the combination of an unemployment rate that has been below 6 percent for months and a vigorous economy expanding at an annual rate of more than 4 percent.
"If you look at the unemployment data, you can see that we are closer to wage pressures than we were a year ago," said Henry Kaufman, the Wall Street economist.
Perhaps. Or perhaps wage pressure requires much stronger economic growth and much lower unemployment than in the past, some economists argue. If that is the case -- and no one really knows yet -- then the Federal Reserve, by raising interest rates on loans to dampen demand, might end up slowing economic growth prematurely, bringing on hardship unnecessarily.
"There is no question that we are going through a sea change of some sort," said Peter L. Bernstein, an economic consultant.
Many explanations are offered for the weakness in wages and benefits so evident in the Employment Cost Index, despite the low unemployment rate and strong economy. One is that employers are hiring the unskilled at low wages and training them, rather than bidding for scarce skilled workers, raising wage scales in the process to attract them.
That has worked even in the Midwest, where the unemployment rate is generally under 4 percent, though in some cases -- the booming construction industry in Phoenix is an example -- workers are in such short supply that wages are indeed rising.
Another explanation for the weak rise in labor costs is that Corporate America is making its employees work longer hours, rather than seeking new employees, who would have to be paid benefits has well as wages. In addition, the vast service sector, in the past a source of rapid hiring, has cut back in recent years, preferring instead labor-saving devices like cash registers that not only ring up sales but track inventories.
Then, too, layoffs and the widespread concerns about job security have made workers reluctant to demand pay increases that exceed the inflation rate. And union bargaining power, already weak, has waned even more.
In a separate release yesterday, the Labor Department reported that union contracts negotiated in the fourth quarter provided for annual wage increases averaging 2.5 percent. That was nearly a percentage point less than the contracts they replaced, which had been negotiated in 1991 and 1992, when the economy was weak.
Finally, outlays for health insurance and other benefits, usually a source of sharp increases in the Employment Cost Index, rose only mildly last year, even tapering off along with wages in the fourth quarter. "What happened to benefits is almost entirely due to a slowdown in the rise of health insurance premiums," said Wayne Shelly, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Whatever the reasons, the Employment Cost Index, adjusted for inflation, rose three-tenths of 1 percent last year, among the smallest increases in the 14 years of the index. Each of the components behaved with similar mildness. Before allowing for inflation, wages and salaries were up 2.8 percent for the year and six-tenths of 1 percent in the fourth quarter, while benefit costs rose 3.4 percent for the year and seven-tenths of 1 percent for the final quarter. In each case, the increases were among the smallest on record. That was also true after adjustment for inflation.
Separately, the Conference Board, a business organization, reported that its consumer confidence index had fallen to 102.1 in December from 103.4 in November.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "All Quiet on the Pay Front" shows growth in the Employment Cost Index for all civilian workers, including pay and benefits from '82-'94. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (65%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; WORKING HOURS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT COSTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS STEPHEN S ROACH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



12 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Mixed On Treasury Securities

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, with the long end of the market up sharply on a rally sparked by news that President Clinton had abandoned plans to seek Congressional authority for the Mexican bailout, deciding instead to use existing executive authority to put in place a peso stabilization plan.
Meanwhile, shorter maturities remained tentative as the Federal Reserve's policy-making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, began a two-day meeting to determine the course of interest rates over the next few months. Most traders and dealers expect the Fed to raise short-term rates at the conclusion of the meeting by half a percentage point. That would be the seventh rate increase by the central bank in a year as it moves to slow economic growth and keep inflation in check. 
 Traders and analysts said that news of the new Mexican rescue plan eased concern by some market participants that the Fed might delay a rate increase in order to spare the Mexican financial markets from further pressure.
By late in the day the 30-year bond was up 23/32 , to a price of 9724/32 for a yield of 7.69 percent, down from 7.75 percent on Monday. That means bondholders gained about $7.18 for every $1,000 invested. Shorter-maturity bill rates, which would be the first to bear the brunt of a Fed rate increase, rose slightly, with a three-month issue up five basis points, to 5.82 percent, and a one-year up three basis points, to 6.37 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Anthony Dwyer, chief market strategist for Josephthal Lyon & Ross, said that the prices of longer maturities were pushed higher by more than the rally in the dollar that followed the announcement of the new Mexican rescue plan. He believes that investors are buying longer maturities because they believe that the economy is finally beginning to slow enough to keep inflation generally in check. Market analysts and traders said the firming of the dollar against other major currencies yesterday, and signs that inflation currently poses no immediate threat, helped to underpin the strength in bonds.
The Employment Cost Index, which the Fed looks at closely for any signs of new price pressures, showed only a marginal increase in hourly labor costs and worker benefits at the end of last year. And for all of 1994, the index rose just 3 percent, its lowest increase ever.
Some economists find it hard to believe that with unemployment at 5.4 percent, that these kinds of numbers are possible. But most say this will not dissuade the Fed from raising short-term rates once more.
In another report issued yesterday, consumer confidence eased slightly in January to 102.1 from a revised 103.4 in December, according to the Conference Board.
Anthony E. Spare, chief investment officer for the $2 billion money management firm of Spare, Kaplan, Bischel & Associates in San Fransisco, who also thinks the economy will slow down further at end of 1995, says "that inflation can be in the 4 to 5 percent range by the end of this year along with lower growth. We assume that a 7-7.75 percent yield is a good guess as to the proper risk relationship for that bond." He believes that the long bond at a 7.75 percent already reflects that expectation.
Mr. Spare also believes that 1995 will be a year when we'll see a flight to quality. And as a result, Treasury rates will decline and junk rates could go higher.
Today the Treasury plans to announce the size of its quarterly refunding, which would bring supply to the market.
Elsewhere, municipal bond yields fell to their lowest level in nearly four months as prices rose on existing issues because of the scaricty of new issues. On a yield to maturity basis, the yield on The Bond Buyer's index of 40 municipal issues fell to 6.66 percent yesterday, down from 6.70 percent on Monday. It is at its lowest level since October 19, 1994, when the yield was 6.64 percent.
Over the next 30 days, only $1.7 billion in bonds are scheduled for sale, that's 70 percent less than during the same period a year ago, according to The Bond Buyer.
Bloomberg Business News reports that municipalities sold $6 billion in bonds in January, the lowest amount since 1988.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



13 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Gasoline Surge On New Jersey Selling Plan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices surged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid expectations that New Jersey retailers would not soon switch to selling a grade of reformulated gasoline not yet traded on the exchange.
On other commodity exchanges, gold and silver prices fell. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities fell 0.94 point, to 232.78. 
 New Jersey officials have been considering allowing the sale of gasoline with 2 percent oxygen content, which would be cheaper than gasoline with 2.7 percent oxygen. A reduction to 2 percent would allow the state to comply with Federal law requiring the sale of a cleaner, reformulated gasoline but would have effectively let it drop out of an optional, statewide program requiring it to sell the 2.7 percent grade during the winter.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, speaking at the National Governors' Association in Washington, noted that southern New Jersey would be able to sell the 2 percent grade as of March 1 while the northern part of the state would be able to sell that grade by May 1.
Gasoline prices had fallen last week on fears that New Jersey would switch to the 2 percent grade before those deadlines, decreasing demand for the 2.7 percent grade, which the New York Mercantile Exchange requires be delivered until May 1.
Traders took the Governor's comments to mean the state would not switch to the cheaper grade immediately, as had been speculated.
The February gasoline contract, which expired yesterday, jumped 1.55 cents, to 57.76 cents a gallon. March gasoline rose 1.25 cents, to 56.53 cents a gallon. The gains helped lift crude oil prices. Crude oil for March delivery gained 30 cents, to $18.39 a barrel.
On the Commodity Exchange of New York, gold and silver prices fell on expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates today. Gold and silver are historically bought as a hedge against inflation. An increase in rates is aimed at containing future inflation.
Gold for February delivery fell $1.40, to $375.40 an ounce, while silver for March delivery slid 6.7 cents, to $4.663 an ounce, both three-week lows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); GASOLINE (91%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



14 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Brown Bros. Appoints Top Official

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, the nation's oldest and largest private bank, said yesterday that Anthony T. Enders had been appointed managing partner, a position akin to chief executive.
Mr. Enders, whose appointment is effective today, succeeds Terrence M. Farley. Mr. Farley, who has held the post since November 1983, will be 65 years old next month; he will remain as a general partner. 
 To an outsider, Brown Brothers seems an anachronism in the bruising world of Wall Street, where huge public companies with enormous amounts of capital compete to do business with clients that may be here today, but somewhere else tommorrow.
With assets of $1.55 billion and capital of slightly more than $155 million, Brown Brothers does not have terribly big shoulders when compared with its competitors. Instead, like most small creatures, the firm relies on quick wits and feet to survive and prosper.
"We try to focus on those businesses where demands for capital are not exorbitant, or beyond our ability to meet them," Mr. Enders, who is 57, said in an interview. "We try and focus on things we think we can do pretty well, and where we can get a good return."
The firm's performance more than met that standard in 1994. In a year when rising interest rates soured the bottom line at most Wall Street firms, Brown Brothers had its best year ever, Mr. Enders said.
In addition to commercial banking, Brown Brothers is an investment adviser, corporate financier and stockbroker. Over the last decade, Brown Brothers has also worked hard at expanding its custodial relationship business with the mutual funds industry.
The custodial business requires detailed knowledge of computers and operations, and Mr. Enders serves as chairman of the firm's Operating and Systems Management committees. "Early last year we had a significant increase in our global custody business," he said. "And because of the custody business, we have a proportionately large amount of money in short-term demand deposits. When rates go up, that helps us a bit."
In contrast to the career of Mr. Farley, who joined Brown Brothers as a clerk and went to the City College of New York at night, Mr. Enders's roots and rise to the top are more in line with the firm's patrician image and past.
Brown Brothers traces its roots to 1818, but its modern form emerged with the merger in 1931 of two private banks, Brown Brothers and Harriman Brothers. In addition to the Harriman brothers, E. Roland and W. Averell, past partners include Prescott Bush, the father of former President George Bush.
Born in Hartford and educated at Philips Exeter Academy, Harvard College and Harvard Business School, Mr. Enders joined Brown Brothers in Boston in 1962, did a four-year stint in London in the mid-1970's and was made a partner in 1981. He and his wife, the artist Elizabeth M. Enders, have four children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony T. Enders (Zindman/Fremont)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); MERGERS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (64%); 

PERSON: ENDERS, ANTHONY T; FARLEY, TERRENCE M; GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (50%); GEORGE H W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



15 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: STATE DEPT. STUDY SAYS CHINA LAGS ON HUMAN RIGHTS

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
In the latest setback to the Clinton Administration's 16-month strategy of engaging rather than isolating China, a State Department report on human rights has concluded that China made no progress in any major human rights area last year.
The human rights report coincides with a series of bitter confrontations with China over its trade practices, its export of weapons-related technology and Washington's upgrading of contacts with Taiwan. 
 The report, which is part of the State Department's global human rights survey to be issued on Wednesday, is particularly embarrassing for the Administration because it underscores its failure to nudge China into improving its human rights performance despite the unconditional extension of preferential trade privileges eight months ago.
At that time, President Clinton abandoned the annual ritual of linking renewal of trade benefits to improvements in Beijing's human rights performance. He argued that China's economic and strategic importance had grown so great that it would be unwise to impose the broad sanctions he had threatened.
Privately, Mr. Clinton and his aides had expressed the expectation that the Chinese would fulfill their assertion that in the absence of external threats, it would be much easier for them to make progress in the area of human rights. In particular, Commerce Secretary Ron Brown at the time touted his strategy of "commercial engagement" as crucial to improving China's behavior.
That was not to be the case.
"In 1994, there continued to be widespread and well-documented human rights abuses in China, in violation of internationally accepted norms, stemming both from the authorities' intolerance of dissent and the inadequacy of legal safeguards for freedom of speech, association and religion," the report states. "Abuses include arbitrary and lengthy incommunicado detention, torture and mistreatment of prisoners."
The report calls China an "authoritarian state" in which the Communist Party "monopolizes decision-making authority."
Further, it criticizes Chinese authorities for the detention of perhaps thousands of "prisoners of conscience;" an inadequate accounting of those who are missing or were detained after the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations; a crackdown on journalists; the routine arrest of dissidents during foreign visits; the denial of fair trials; and a requirement that prisoners work in labor camps.
Last year, the Administration tried to persuade China to give the International Committee of the Red Cross access to Chinese prisons, to release certain prominent and ailing political prisoners and to end the jamming of the Voice of America. None of those goals were accomplished, the report says.
The report also notes that forced abortions and sterilization occur in China, although such practices are not authorized by the Government. And it raises accusations that the Chinese have forced prisoners to donate their organs for transplants.
As for Tibet, the report concludes that the human rights situation has worsened there in the last year. In 1994, the Chinese authorities committed "widespread human rights abuses," including torture, arbitrary arrest, the detention and prosecution of monks and nuns who express dissenting views in public and rigid controls on freedom of speech and the press.
On the positive side, the report praises, among other things, the passage of a new law that gives Chinese citizens the right to sue the Government for improper treatment, although the law has yet to be carried out.
One of the Administration's goals before it extended trade benefits to China last year was that China begin discussions with Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama; on the contrary, the report notes that the Chinese authorities forbade party and Government officials from displaying his photograph, even in their homes, and removed his photographs from sale at bazaar shops.
In a diplomatic standoff that is expected to go down to the wire, the United States has threatened to impose punitive tariffs against $2.8 billion in Chinese exports on Saturday unless China cracks down on the pirating of American movies, music and computer software.
Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, said in a telephone interview today that the United States intends to proceed with the penalties . "We have made it clear to the Chinese that an agreement is absolutely necessary, that we are prepared to issue a final retaliatory list on Feb. 4 if we have no agreement," Mr. Kantor said.
Senior officials acknowledge that even if the United States goes forward with the punitive measure, it will take at least three weeks to carry out because goods already being shipped will not be affected.
The harsh report on China's human rights record did not come as a surprise. In a speech in Seattle earlier this month, Winston Lord, the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, said: "Frankly, on the human rights front, the situation has deteriorated. They're rounding up dissidents, harassing them more." In fact, Mr. Lord added, China "is a somewhat difficult partner these days."
Washington's frustration with Beijing is so intense that even the most ardent supporters of the policy inside the Administration acknowledge that they are deeply disappointed. These officials are also concerned that the policy setbacks will enhance the chances of leading Republican lawmakers, like Senator Frank Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, to upgrade the Administration's relationship with Taiwan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); TIBET (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); TORTURE (78%); ARMS TRADE (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); RELIGION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); ARRESTS (60%); ORGAN DONATION (60%); ABORTION (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



16 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
CHINA FAULTED ON HUMAN RIGHTS
A State Department report on international human rights has concluded that China failed to make progress in all major areas of human rights in the past year. A1
 
EUROPE'S RIVERS RAGE
The Netherlands faced its greatest natural catastrophe in more than 40 years as floodwaters continued to rise, forcing more than 100,000 people from their homes. A10 

The Rhine began to recede, leaving wreckage in Germany. A10
 
A PERU-ECUADOR RITUAL
To banana farmers in a remote Peruvian town on the border with Equador, territorial tensions between the two countries have become an annual event. A3
 
The United Nations has closed a refugee camp in Rwanda A2
 
A nominee for American Ambassador to Panama withdrew. A3
 
A Chechen fighter's stories of war against the Russians. A6
 
Cuban refugees in Panama camps angered by scheduled transfer. A7
 
Israeli stock price surge seen as a rebuff to Government. A8
 
Donors agreed on ways to speed up aid to the Palestinians. A8
 
Yokohama Journal: Japan invests in a growth stock -- day care. A4
 
National A12-19, A22
 
SHIFT IN TACTICS ON AID TO MEXICO
President Clinton announced that he would use his emergency authority to lend up to $20 billion to Mexico, rather than trying to win Congressional approval for $50 billion in loan guarantees. A1
 
PRESIDENT CITES LACK OF ACTION
News Analysis: President Clinton said his decision resulted from delays by Congress in acting on his request for loan guarantees. A1
 
MEXICO MARKET BOOSTED
The Mexican stock market soared and the peso regained some of its lost value after President Clinton announced the emergency aid. A1
 
The rescue plan helped American and Latin American markets. A16
 
NEW YEAR FROM THE PAST
Little Saigon Journal: In Southern California, many celebrate the lunar new year by pledging allegiance to a nation that ceased to exist 20 years ago. A12
 
DEFINITIVELY INDEFINITE
When asked by a member of the audience he spoke to in San Antonio if he is a Republican or Democrat, Gen. Colin Powell gave a firm answer: neither. A12
 
COUNTY RETURNS GIFTS
Officials of the South Carolina county prosecuting Susan Smith in the drowning deaths of her two young sons decided to return $1,147 contributed for her prosecution. A12
 
ATTACKING IMAGE FIRST
The prosecutors in the O. J. Simpson double murder case began their work by trying to undercut the man everyone has seen by showing injuries to his wife he has acknowledged having inflicted on her. A14
 
BATTLE LINES HARDENING
In the Senate, six Democrats who have previously supported balanced budget amendments said they would not do so when the current proposal comes to them unless it was altered to protect the Social Security trust fund. A18
 
AGREEING TO DISAGREE
With Washington talking about giving the states a dramatically enlarged role in administering welfare, the National Governors' Association endorsed the sentiment but was unable to agree on what should be done. A19
 
KAPOSI'S SARCOMA VIRUS FOUND
Columbia University researchers said they had strong evidence that a virus related to the herpes virus causes the Kaposi's sarcoma, a type of cancer that frequently strikes AIDS patients. A22
 
Education B7
 
Metro Digest B1
 
FULTON MARKET PROPOSAL
Acknowledging that Federal intervention had failed to eradicate organized-crime influence, the Mayor is proposing a sweeping set of laws that would restore total city control over the Fulton Fish Market. A1
 
TEACHING VALUES IN SCHOOL
Nina Fue, the 1990 New Jersey teacher of the year, believes that the informal teaching of values is being obscured by another hot topic of the moment: school prayer. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Atlanta's plans for a Cultural Olympiad alongside the athletics. C11
Theater: "After-Play," C11
Music: For the spoken word. C11
A week of Webern. C12
Megadeth's power trip. C12
Dance: City Ballet C13
Books: The old Negro elite. C14
Book Notes. C14
TV: Examining la Difference. C16
Moyers joins NBC. C16
 
The Living Section C1-8
 
Cooking up a storm in Atlanta. C1
At work with Peter Schickele. C1
 
Health Page C9
 
Good news about cancer, and bad: where we stand.
Personal Health: Why good health resolutions fail.
 
Sports B8-13
 
Baseball: Union continues contract freeze. B10
Basketball: Knicks edge Warriors. B9
UConn trounces Miami. B11
Scott sparks St. John's. B11
Column: Vecsey on sports and violence. B9
On Pro Basketball B13
Golf: New commissioner meets tests. B9
Hockey: Devils beat Sabres, 2-1. B9
Islanders rout Panthers, 5-1. B11
Track and Field: Everett adds stability. B10
 
Obituaries D20-21
 
Bernard N. Fields, a leading viral researcher. D20
Gerald Durrell, conservationist and author who prized animals. D21
Lon Chaney, tap dancer. D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Rescuing the rescue plan.
Wrong message on corruption.
Karl E. Meyer: Stolen art.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: The shell game.
Thomas L. Friedman: Yeltsin's economic Chechnya.
James Gollin: Everybody's nest egg.
Charles Lockwood: Born-again computers.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle D22
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ECUADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ECUADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); APPROVALS (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); MURDER (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); RIVERS (57%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



17 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON OFFERS $20 BILLION TO MEXICO FOR PESO RESCUE; ACTION SIDESTEPS CONGRESS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
In the face of widespread opposition, President Clinton today abandoned his effort to get Congress to approve $40 billion in loan guarantees to rescue the Mexican economy. Instead, he said he would use his own emergency authority to lend up to $20 billion to Mexico to keep it from defaulting on Government-issued bonds.
Caught between lawmakers who refused to cooperate and economic markets that threatened to swamp America's third-largest trading partner, Mr. Clinton ordered his aides to put together an international rescue package that would sidestep Congress and that could total about $50 billion. 
 As word of the White House decision flashed in seconds to trading screens around the world, the reaction was immediate. The peso strengthened dramatically to 5.75 to the dollar, after falling to 6.35 on Monday as doubts grew that Congress would act.
Mr. Clinton moved after Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other top aides warned him on Monday night that time had run out, and that a default by Mexico -- which seemed only days away -- could touch off a panic in large emerging markets around the world. [Page A16.]
"Time did not permit the education process that might have permitted Congressional action," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today, although many in Congress said no amount of time would have led to approval. "The situation was dire in Mexico."
After a night of emergency calls to finance ministers around the globe, the Treasury Department cobbled together a rescue plan that includes a commitment by the International Monetary Fund to lend Mexico $17.8 billion -- its biggest loan ever to a country in financial distress -- and loans of $10 billion from the Bank for International Settlements. Canada and Latin American nations agreed to contribute an additional $2 billion.
But the United States is by far the largest contributor, and Mr. Clinton assumes a far larger financial and political risk than he has at any time since the Mexican crisis began. Rather than simply co-sign Mexico's loans -- the heart of the $40 billion plan that failed in Congress -- Mr. Clinton has agreed to a $20 billion-package that could include direct loans and loan guarantees. As collateral, Mexico will put up $7 billion in annual oil earnings, which the United States can draw on if Mexico defaults.
While the President said Mexico would have to meet strict financial conditions, which are basically the same as the ones in the plan proposed to Congress, he decided to ignore Congressional calls to condition American aid upon obtaining Mexico's cooperation in restricting illegal immigration and fighting narcotics trafficking.
However, Mr. Clinton called Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon, from Air Force One this afternoon and said he would need cooperation on a range of immigration and other issues of enormous sensitivity in Mexico. Mr. Christopher said he believed that "today's action will enhance our ability to achieve good results in those areas."
Speaking to Democratic governors this morning, President Clinton defended his action, saying: "This is in the interest of America, contrary to what some of have said, not because there are large financial interests at stake, but because there are thousands of jobs, billions of dollars of American exports at stake, the potential of an even more serious illegal immigration problem, the spread of financial instability to other countries in our hemisphere, and indeed to other developing countries throughout the world, and the potential of a more serious narcotics trafficking problem."
To circumvent Congress, Mr. Clinton used $20 billion in a Treasury Department account called the Exchange Stabilization Fund, which is ordinarily used to stabilize the dollar on international exchange markets. The fund, created by Franklin D. Roosevelt in the Depression, has never before been used to make medium-term loans to other nations.
The relief shown by investors to the new aid package was nothing compared to that displayed in Congress, where members were delighted that they would not have to act on a measure of clear national importance that an overwhelming number of Americans -- more than 80 percent according to some polls -- think is a bad idea.
"Any time a Congressman or Senator doesn't have to vote on something, it's a great day," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the general chairman of the Democratic National Committee and one of the few in Congress who supported the initial bailout plan.
Administration officials insisted today that with enough time and Presidential persuasion, Congress would have enacted the package. But there was little evidence to support that optimism after two weeks of withering criticism from members who claimed that Congress was bailing out wealthy investors and pension funds that bought Government-issued junk bonds and lost.
"If the issue had been brought to the Senate floor, it would have lost," said Senator William S. Cohen, a Republican of Maine, said today.
Mr. Clinton's action was endorsed by leaders of both parties. In a joint announcement with President Clinton, House Speaker Newt Gingrich and the Senate Majority Leader, Bob Dole, said, "This is an important undertaking and we believe that the risks of inaction vastly exceed any risks associated with this action."
But the statement provides Mr. Clinton with scant political cover. Critics of the effort were already claiming that Mr. Clinton had solved none of the defects of the original plan, other than getting other countries to share in the risk. Patrick J. Buchanan, a 1992 Republican Presidential contender and critic of the loan guarantees, called the new plan a "back-door raid on the American taxpayers." H. Ross Perot, the Texas billionaire who led the drive against the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, told a Senate committee today that the new plan "isn't going to work either."
The plan Mr. Clinton announced today is the third effort in five weeks to stem the crisis that began when Mexico was forced to devalue its currency. The devaluation was forced on the Government after investors grew increasingly nervous that the country had issued too many short-term bonds -- called tesobonos -- to cover its long-term debts. But that effort failed to calm investors who recognized that the peso was wildly overvalued, and soon both the peso and the Mexican stock market dropped like a rock.
Mr. Clinton first announced a short-term loan to Mexico, known as a swap facility, in hopes of restoring investor confidence. When that failed, he was forced to propose the $40 billion in loan guarantees, hoping that investors would return to the Mexican market if they believed that the United States would be the ultimate guarantor that the country would not default. That propped up the market for a while. But as objections rose in Congress, the markets turned south again.
Hoping to stave off further disaster, the White House publicly waved aside pronouncements from Capitol Hill that its $40 billion loan guarantee program was all but dead. Officials insist that as late as Monday afternoon agreement was near on final wording for a bill jammed with conditions.
But by early evening it had all fallen apart, and Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Dole told Leon E. Panetta, the President's chief of staff, that the effort was hopeless.
Mr. Clinton's only option for acting without Congressional approval was the Exchange Stabilization Fund, which currently contains about $25 billion -- not enough to make a bailout credible to investors. And the Treasury could not commit all of that amount, for fear it would not have enough reserves available in case it needed to defend the dollar or help stabilize another currency on the foreign exchange markets.
As a result, the Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, Lawrence Summers, turned to the International Monetary Fund, which had already committed far more to saving Mexico than its own investment guidelines permit. After all-night consultations that ended at dawn on Tuesday, the I.M.F. agreed to a package of $17.8 billion in loans, payable in five years. That should give Mexico a cushion to pay off its short-term bondholders and then issue longer-term securities that will ease its cash squeeze.
"Our hope is to lay $10 billion of that off on some other central banks around the world," said one senior administration official. That is an oblique way of saying that the Japanese and the Germans, who so far have been enormously reluctant to join in bailing out Mexico, will be asked to pay a large share of it.
But the Japanese say they are paying for the Kobe earthquake, and the Germans say they have their own huge drains reconstructing the former East Germany. "It will not be easy," one Administration official said this afternoon. "They have all made it clear that they view this as an American problem."
They got that idea from Mr. Clinton, who has argued for weeks now that he is acting to save 700,000 American jobs dependent on exports to Mexico -- exports that would dry up if the Mexican economy crashes. To further persuade Congress, the White House has also argued that a deepening crisis would lead to an influx of half a million more illegal immigrants, attracted by the prospect of earning dollars that are now 40 percent more valuable in Mexico than they were six weeks ago.
None of those arguments seemed enough, however. Nor was Congress moved by the Administration's contention that in the modern world of finance, where capital flies around the world at the push of a button, a default by Mexico would soon spread to any emerging market that depends heavily on international investment.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before he announced his multibillion-dollar aid package for Mexico yesterday, President Clinton met with Congressional leaders at the White House to discuss the Mexican situation. Among those attending the meeting were, from left rear, Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia, Mr. Clinton, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin. (White House via Associated Press); Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)
 
Chart:
 
FORMER PLAY
 The bailout plan proposed Jan. 12:
 -- The United States would guarantee $40 billion in new loans to Mexico, to be used only if Mexico defaults on its outstanding bonds or loans.
 -- Loans of $7.5 billion from the International Monetary Fund and $5 billion from the Bank for International Settlements
-- Congressional approval needed, with Congress expecting Mexico to raise the minimum wage and to curb illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Oil revenues to be used as collateral.
 
NEW PLAY
 The President's plan announced yesterday:
-- The United States would offer a combination of loans and loan guarantees available mostly over 3-5 years, that would provide up to $20 billion to help restructure Mexico's debt;
 -- Loans of $17.5 billion from the International Monetary Fund and $10 billion from the Bank for International Settlements
 -- No Congressional approval needed. No conditions imposed on Mexico regarding wages, immigration or drugs. Oil revenues to be used as collateral. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; CANADA; LATIN AMERICA; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); TRENDS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); DOLE, BOB (SEN); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



18 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Risky Course for Clinton

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
On "very difficult issues, the Congress does the right thing" more often than not, President Clinton said Monday. The problem with that comforting maxim is that Congress and the President sometimes disagree on what is right, and so it was on the $40 billion loan guarantee for Mexico. Congress thought it was wrong, partly because it looked too much like a welfare program for Wall Street, and in effect killed it by delaying action until Mr. Clinton felt he could wait no longer.
Given a few more weeks, the White House insisted tonight, it could have pushed its proposal through the Senate and the House of Representatives. Very few people in leadership positions on Capitol Hill believe that. The loan guarantee was losing support, not gaining it, in the last few days. 
 What happened, most politicians here think, is that the President and his advisers misunderstood the political atmosphere. Some of the blame will inevitably attach itself to the new Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, one of the most sure-footed people in the White House during his two years as head of the National Economic Council. Former Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, a longtime Senator, might have provided a keener reading of the mood on Capitol Hill.
Furthermore, Congress is now controlled by the Republicans, the President has been rocked back onto his heels, a new populism is abroad in the land and Nafta -- the North American Free Trade Agreement, designed to encourage investment in Mexico -- looks far less appealing with recent peasant unrest there, continued illegal immigration and now severe trouble in the economy.
Especially but not exclusively on the House side, the newer, younger Republicans tend toward parochialism, taking a dim view of both international economic organizations and American economic commitments overseas.
The guarantee idea was no doubt difficult to sell in the time available. A senior United States official said that he was "always shocked by how difficult it is to explain economic issues to the public and to the Hill." But Nafta and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade were, if anything, more complicated, and Mr. Clinton still managed to assemble Congressional majorities for both of them in the last two years.
In fact, a leading Democrat on Capitol Hill said this morning, "You didn't really feel much heat from the President on this the last two weeks."
During his 81-minute State of the Union speech, Mr. Clinton devoted precisely two paragraphs to the financial crisis in Mexico, and at no point did his language suggest that the situation presented a dire threat to the United States, as Secretary of State Warren Christopher said this afternoon.
Speaker Newt Gingrich, ostensibly a supporter of the guarantee, was either unwilling or, despite his vise-like grip on his troops on most issues, unable to rally much backing for the White House plan. As late as Monday afternoon, his aides assured the White House that they were just a few hours away from a workable package. Then, on Monday evening, those signals were switched, and the White House was told that nothing could be produced in the near future.
The most likely explanation is that, like everyone else on Capitol Hill, Mr. Gingrich read the numbers in a Los Angeles Times poll, taken from Jan. 19 to 22, that showed Americans disapproved of the guarantee proposal by a huge margin, 81 percent to 15 percent. Most saw it as a bailout of the peso that would benefit mainly wealthy Mexicans and Wall Street big shots.
Conservative politicians jumped on the anti-guarantee bandwagon early, making life difficult for Mr. Gingrich and Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader. Among them were Jack F. Kemp, a leading Republican theorist; former Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick and, notably, Senator Phil Gramm.
Mr. Gramm, a Texan, is Mr. Dole's main rival at the moment for the 1996 Republican Presidential nomination, which gave Mr. Dole every reason to avoid point duty for the White House. From the start, he said Mr. Clinton would have to produce more Democratic votes before the Republicans would join in.
Public antipathy may have been fed, in addition, by unpleasant memories of the tremendously expensive bailout of failed banks and savings and loans from 1988 to 1992. At any rate, the most important element in turning the electorate against the idea seems to have been the sense that once again, Wall Street and Washington were conspiring to pick the pocket of the little guy.
Nothing of the sort, the White House and much of Wall Street insists. But one prominent figure in the investment-banking community thinks the public has got it just about right.
"What you have here is Mexican government bonds paying huge interest rates," the banker said after insisting he not be quoted by name. "Junk bonds, in effect. But the guys who run the mutual funds and pension funds couldn't resist, so they took huge risks with the money of people who didn't really get what was at stake. It comes close to violating a fiduciary responsibility in some cases, and when the balloon went up, all they could do was run to Washington for help."
The ultimate blame may reside with the Mexican Government, which was unwilling to act to head off the impending crisis while the Mexican election campaign was on last summer, lest it lose power. But in the face of numerous warnings, the Clinton Administration did not really push the Mexicans terribly hard, partly because it wanted the Institutional Revolutionary Party to remain in office.
Now the Administration has been forced to embark on a course with far more risks, political as well as economic, than the one it originally charted. Not only is the United States providing loans rather than guaranteeing them, but Mr. Clinton is doing it without the protective cover of Republican backing.
There may have been no choice in the end, but if things go wrong, the penalty at the polls in two years' time could be very severe indeed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FINANCES; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TRENDS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



19 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: MEXICO CITY;
Mexican Financial Markets Rebound

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Mexico's stock market soared and the peso rose in value today as President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon declared that the White House's new rescue plan would help the country emerge from its worst financial crisis in a decade.
After weeks of anxiety and chaos in the financial markets, the badly weakened peso, which on Monday took a nose dive to its lowest point since the trouble began on Dec. 20, roared back 10.5 percent today to close at 5.75 pesos to the dollar. 
 Traders and institutional investors on Wall Street and in Mexico went into a buying frenzy for Mexican stocks as soon as the plan was announced in Washington. By the end of the day, the Mexican stock market had gained 10.3 percent, recouping much of the ground lost in the last four trading days as Congressional opposition rose to Mr. Clinton's first rescue plan.
The new plan combines credits from the United States, several other nations and international financial institutions to make available to Mexico about $50 billion to deal with its economic problems.
This new American-brokered package not only calmed the financial markets but was also welcomed by Mexico as far more politically acceptable than the earlier package, since it eliminated some of the conditions that were being discussed in Congress like requiring Mexico to change the way it runs its economy, limiting relations with Cuba and clamping down on illegal emigration to the United States.
However, Mexico will still have to meet a requirement that was part of the earlier package: that it put up oil revenue as collateral to be used if the loans are not repaid.
The American announcement today was the latest turbulent chapter in Mexico's economic crisis, which began six weeks ago when the Mexican Government ordered the peso devalued in response to the country's mounting debts.
The order caused investor panic, and with it a collapse of the peso. Since then, investors have been pulling their money from Mexican markets, draining the country's international-currency reserves and raising fears of a default.
Mexican officials said they hoped that President Clinton's new offer would let Mr. Zedillo gain control of the economic crisis and defuse criticism that he had accepted earlier conditions, which were seen at home as weakening Mexican sovereignty.
Mr. Zedillo said in a speech this afternoon that the new package "deals only with strictly financial operations that in no way threaten the sovereignty of the nation." In marches and demonstrations over the last few weeks, thousands of Mexicans had condemned the growing list of demands in Washington.
"It's not a package that solves everything," said Alonso Lujambio, a political scientist at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico, "but it gives Zedillo some space to maneuver."
For all the expressions of relief, the new plan was not seen, by itself, as ending Mexico's recent financial crisis, nor ending the need for Mexicans to tighten their belts during the austere period of economic recovery that lies ahead. Political analysts also agreed that a United States-led rescue would hardly reduce deeply rooted concerns about Mexico's independence as a financial market or a sovereign nation.
"It is humiliating, the level of dependency we have reached," said Sergio Aguayo, whose civic group plans to hold a national referendum on whether Mexico should accept help from the United States. "This time, there is no official propaganda that can disguise the fact that we have been saved by the President of the United States."
The practical consequences of the package outlined by Mr. Clinton today are that Mexico can address its immediate crisis of having more than $20 billion in short-term debt that foreign and domestic investors are afraid to renew, officials said.
The new and expanded credit lines are seen here as sufficiently large to reassure investors that Mexico will not default on its obligations.
Financial analysts added that if investors could be persuaded to keep their money in Mexico's bond market, the calming effect could spill over to the Mexican stock market, which has been pounded relentlessly almost since the peso was first devalued on Dec. 20; it has lost 25 percent of its value in dollar terms since the beginning of the year.
A stable stock market could in turn ease the pressure on the peso, which likewise has continued to weaken since December. One peso is now worth about 17 cents, as against nearly 29 cents six weeks ago.
But foreign investors, who hold a majority of the expiring bonds and who once invested heavily in Mexican stocks, caution that there may be long-term aftereffects even if the current crisis subsides.
"Mexico and the emerging markets will have to be rated again in terms of risk," said Brian M. Barish, vice president for emerging markets at Lazard Freres & Company, in New York. "Six months ago, the risk didn't seem that bad. Now, it's considerably higher."
The Mexican Finance Minister, Guillermo Ortiz, said in an interview today that the new package of credit lines was not as comprehensive as the previous plan, but it would do.
"If we had gotten the $40 billion on 5- to 10-year maturities as proposed, that would have given us more flexibility to do an immediate, drastic reduction of our short-term obligations," Mr. Ortiz said. "This plan gives us almost as much flexibility because the terms are almost as adequate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Mexican stock exchange jumped 7 percent in three hours yesterday after President Clinton ordered a large aid package to Mexico. Traders at the exchange in Mexico City shouted orders during the session. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



20 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: WORKERS;
Peso's Plunge Spurs Walkout at Factory In Northern Mexico

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Angered that the peso's plunge has cut the value of their wages, more than 2,600 workers at the Thomson Consumer Electronics plant in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, walked off the job this morning and blocked thousands of other workers in a second shift from entering.
The company, a French electronics giant that employs 5,600 at the plant across the Rio Grande from El Paso, said the workers struck without notice or the involvement of their union, the Workers Federation of Mexico. 
 Until now, twin-plant operations like Thomson's, which are coordinated with factories north of the border, have benefited from the peso's plunge because most of their labor expenses are in pesos while most of their revenues are in dollars.
The value of the peso has fallen about 40 percent against the dollar since December, and prices in Mexico are rapidly rising.
"We suspect this discontent is not necessarily directed at Thomson," said Richard J. Knoph, a Thomson spokesman, "but toward the general instability of the economy."
Workers on the first shift blocked buses and cars bringing workers for the second shift, Mr. Knoph said, and kept them from entering the factory. But there was no violence or sabotage, and no police were called.
Before the peso collapsed, the workers earned the equivalent of $2.25 an hour, including a 7 percent raise in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (94%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (94%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS CORP TECHNICOLOR SA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON CONSUMER ELECTRONICS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STRIKES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; CURRENCY STRIKES (91%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); 

PERSON: RICHARD J KNOPH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



21 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
For Pinball Artist, It's World Series

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman 

 BODY:
GENTLEMAN Kai Bateman was one with the pinball machine. Obviously he was entirely aware of the tao of it. As the 32-year-old commercial artist from Colonia, N.J., rolled up mega numbers, a few of the adolescents at the Broadway Arcade at 51st Street turned away from their own games to watch him.
"He's a champion," one of the teen-agers, who probably should have been in school, shouted over the noise. "He's going to be in the World Series," said another, referring to the World Pinball Championships, which are to begin on Friday and end on Sunday at the Park Central Hotel at Seventh Avenue and 55th Street. 
 Gentleman Kai is indeed one of the major contenders in the upcoming tournament where players, largely the spawn of the nation's suburbs, will be battling for money prizes and trophies on the periphery of Times Square, which, like the modern pinball machine, is going electronic, digital and post-modern.
These days, mere electric lights and giant smoke rings can no more dazzle outlanders than a steel ball hitting a bumper can quicken the blood of the young. As for purely gravity-driven pursuits like Skee-Ball and pokerino, they have vanished, declared too boring in the new technologies of passing time.
But at the arcade the frenzy of mass amusement is cutting edge. The playroom looked more like a laboratory than a poolroom. No one drank. No one gambled. Few talked since it was hard to be heard over the electronic sounds. Mostly, people just fed quarters into slots and manned controls.
GENTLEMAN Kai ignored the admiring buzz, positioning himself in front of the Twilight Zone machine, one of his favorites. Earlier, in a back room, he had explained how he had played pinball since he was 8. He had dabbled at video games but stayed with pinball. He said he liked challenging physics more than programs.
He had tried to develop a style that drew upon ballet and Bruce Lee. He won the New York area championship three years ago but failed to advance to the top in the previous four world tourneys. He did not boast, but quietly he made you realize that referring to pinball as a pastime in front of him was like telling Boris Spassky that chess was just a game.
"When you do pinball, you have to be both relaxed and in control," said the unmarried man, who spends 15 to 20 hours a week practicing on various machines.
It is easy to see how he got his name, Gentleman Kai. He is reserved, polite. He has a business painting realistic portraits on denim and leather garments. He took off the one he wore, one with the heads of the singers in En Vogue, as he dropped a coin to start his game.
He crouched, right foot forward, bent slightly at the waist, his hands in front of him, keeping index and middle fingers on the flippers. "I'm the only one I know who uses two fingers."
IT seems to work for him. For more than an hour, he kept the steel balls in play doing what he wanted. Like the other better players, he knows the wiring of this and most other games, practically all of which are manufactured in Chicago. He knows what sequences will bring him the highest score. At times he flipped the balls from one flipper to another. He also called his shots, softly saying which ramp or hole or bumper he was going to hit, and then he did it.
"Watch this, I'm about to get into what this game calls the zone, which means that six balls are going to come out at one time," he said, and sure enough, lights started flashing as six balls began ricocheting down the sloping panel.
Later, when one ball fell between the flippers, he shook his head and declared, "That was a less than average ball." As if to motivate himself, he said: "Remember pinball is a one-ball game. One ball is all you need to get billions."
He got his billions, but he did not match the 2.4 billion he had scored on the machine some time ago to become the machine's Grand Master, with his name flashing on it every few minutes.
In fact, he had also been the Grand Master on the Shadow, another model at the arcade, but last week a player named Domenick, whom he knew, had beaten his previous high and replaced him. Apparantly Gentleman Kai was not happy about this, though he did not talk of revenge.
Still, with the crowd of spectators following him, he moved to the Shadow and dropped 50 cents to start it up. He said nothing, but you could see his intensity and desire. He flipped brilliantly with a great economy of movement. No showboating. No body English. Like DiMaggio. Like Manolete. When he passed four billion, the machine's voice announced that he was again its highest-scoring player. It invited him to write his name in place of Domenick.
Though he did not exult, you could see he felt good. He was focused, concentrating on the games ahead this wekeend when he would be going up against all those people coming to his turf from all the major malls in the world. He was ready.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PINBALL MACHINES ADOLESCENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (61%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T; BATEMAN, GENTLEMAN KAI KAI BATEMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



22 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: FINANCIAL MARKETS;
Wall Street and Its Latin Counterparts Respond With Relief and a Wave of Higher Prices

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Financial markets reacted with relief yesterday to President Clinton's decision to sidestep Congress and undertake a multibillion-dollar rescue operation for Mexico through executive authority.
Stock markets from Toronto to Santiago rallied after the President's announcement. In New York, stocks rose in heavy trading, bonds were up sharply, and the dollar surged. 
 Markets in Argentina and Brazil, which had been battered by the Mexican crisis, leaped on the news, rising 7 percent and 8.5 percent, respectively.
"The market wanted a large package with a long-maturity profile, and that is what it has got," said Joyce Chang, a Mexico specialist with Salomon Brothers.
Said Ricardo Peon at Baring Securities in Mexico City: "This is very positive. Yesterday there was talk of default or exchange controls. Now all that has disappeared."
The dollar, which had been caught in the backwash of Mexico's economic woes as investors moved into German marks, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, strengthened against those currencies yesterday, reaching its best levels in nearly two weeks.
The euphoria gave a boost as well to American depository receipts of Mexican companies, which are traded like shares, on exchanges in the United States. The A.D.R.'s of Telefonos de Mexico, a bellwether for the Mexican market, closed at $35.375, up $4.625, on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the second most heavily traded issue. Each A.D.R. is the equivalent of 20 shares traded in Mexico.
The new rescue package comprises not only $20 billion in American aid promised by the President but also assistance from the International Monetary Fund, the Bank for International Settlements, some commercial banks and a group of South American countries including Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Colombia.
The package will give Mexico a large pool of capital from which to repay its outstanding loans falling due this year. Mexico will then have between 3 and 10 years to repay to that pool, depending on the credit line of the lender, effectively stretching out the nation's debt.
James Colmenares of Morgan Stanley Asset Management said Mexico has about $55 billion in short-term obligations, known as tesobonos and cetes, due this year. Of those, about $30 billion are held by foreigners, who may not want to roll them over.
"It means the liquidity crisis is over," Mr. Colmenares said of the new package, referring to earlier market fears that Mexico would be unable to meet its payments.
The Clinton Administration appears confident that the International Monetary Fund will agree to raise its lending to Mexico from the $7.8 billion that it had announced earlier to the nearly $ 17.8 billion that is called for in the new rescue plan. But the sheer size of the loan may be questioned by some members of the fund's executive board.
"This is the largest loan the I.M.F. has ever made, by a wide margin, and some board members may not be happy with such proportion of the fund's resources going to one country," said Lisa S. Kaess of Geoffrey Bell & Company, a New York investment advisory firm.
She predicted that the fund's loan would infuriate Russia, which is still locked in uphill negotiations with the I.M.F. for a $13 billion loan to help stabilize the ruble. The loan to Mexico, she said, sets "a new precedent for developing nations as to how much the I.M.F. can give, if you have the right support."

GRAPHIC: Table: "For Funds, a Reversal of Fortunes" lists performance of mutual funds that invest primarily in Latin America, ranked by total returns this year. For companies that offer more than one class of a given fund, only the largest is shown. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); CHILE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (53%); MORGAN STANLEY ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); CHILE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



23 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: CHRONOLOGY;
Slow-Building Despair Led to Decision on Aid

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
The decision by President Clinton to assert executive authority on Mexico's behalf came at a late-night meeting on Monday in the Oval Office, when his top advisers told him that two weeks of trying and failing to persuade Congress to act had left him with no other course.
It was a path that the White House had previously rejected, partly because the advisers believed it essential that the President and the Congress present a common front to the markets and a wary public. But by Saturday, with the peso still plunging and the plan for action on Capitol Hill fading, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other top officials concluded that it was time to review their options. 
 With the President's approval, they set Monday as the deadline by which Congress would at least have to settle on a bill. But by Monday night, at the end of a long White House day that began in hope and ended in despair, Mr. Rubin and the rest of the team had only bad news for Mr. Clinton when he returned to the White House from a political dinner.
Senior White House officials who provided an account of the decision-making today said that Leon E. Panetta, the chief of staff, and other top advisers told Mr. Clinton that they believed it would be at least two weeks -- if ever -- before the Congress would approve the $40 billion loan guarantee package to which the President and Republican leaders had pledged their support.
That was too long to wait, the advisers said, and the President agreed.
"We could not allow the situation to continue in which we were just waiting for Congress to take action and watching Mexico collapse," said a White House official who took part in the session, which began about 11 P.M.
A crucial final detail of the package did not fall in place until after dawn today, when Lawrence Summers, the Under Secretary of the Treasury, received word that the International Monetary Fund would put up the additional $10 billion in loan guarantees that the White House thought necessary. And the go-it-alone plan did not become official policy until Mr. Clinton met with Congressional leaders early this morning to hear first-hand of their pessimism.
But even Speaker Newt Gingrich, who had become increasingly candid about the opposition the package faced, knew when Mr. Panetta called him late Monday night that the die had been cast. If Mr. Clinton went ahead and took sole responsibility for the rescue plan, the Speaker told Mr. Panetta, he would hear from the Congress "a huge sigh of relief."
The story of how the President finally decided to devote $20 billion from an obscure Treasury Department fund to prop up Mexico's economy is in part the story of a White House reluctant to use its authority for an unpopular purpose. But it is also the story of a new era in which a Democratic President and the Republican leaders of Congress could not -- despite 18 days of joint effort -- rally their followers behind a $40 billion loan guarantee that they declared fundamental to American interests.
Asked tonight whether the White House was blaming recalcitrant Republicans or Democrats, a senior official replied: "I think this is one you probably have to lay on both sides. You really do."
Since Mr. Clinton first met with his advisers on Jan. 12 for a formal discussion of the Mexican crisis, the White House had recognized that it had the power to step in and provide the loan guarantees the President's advisers believed necessary to avert a collapse.
But the emergency stabilization fund on which Mr. Clinton finally relied had never been used for that purpose, and it contained only about $20 billion, a sum the White House feared would be inadequate.
Still, the more central reason for the reluctance was related to politics. With Republicans holding sway in Congress, Mr. Clinton's advisers worried that action by the President alone would be laughed off by the markets and scorned by the public.
Yet even after winning agreement from Mr. Gingrich and Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, to push for a full-scale $40 billion plan, the White House remained apprehensive. As a member of Congress, Mr. Panetta had watched how controversial rescue plans for New York City and the Chrysler Corporation had generated opposition in the 1970's, and top officials said they were on his mind as he worked the telephones trying to line up Democratic support for a plan that opinion polls and Congressional reaction was quickly showing to be almost as unappealing.
Mr. Rubin, who was sworn in as Treasury Secretary just as the battle began, also made the quest for passage of the plan a personal cause, spending nearly every day on Capitol Hill.
The Administration also got an unusually public declaration of help from the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, who went before Congress several times to express support for the package.
But by last Wednesday, mounting pessimism within the Administration -- fed by evidence from Capitol Hill and around the country that sentiment against the $40 billion plan was hardening -- led the department to begin to give the go-it-alone option another look.
Still, the White House was far from giving up hope. The meeting on Saturday at which Mr. Panetta, Mr. Rubin and others, including Samuel R. Berger, the deputy national security adviser, agreed to set a deadline, was filled with hope that it could be met. And on Sunday, when Mr. Clinton placed after-church telephone calls to Senator Dole; Speaker Gingrich; Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate minority leader, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, he was assured by each that they would do their part.
On Monday, the White House set its sights on the House as the pressure point. But while Mr. Gingrich expressed enthusiasm in a noontime telephone conversation with Mr. Panetta, that soon gave way to silence as the Speaker met with Republican governors and then with Mr. Dole to try to find a package that they, too, could support.
Mr. Panetta and Mr. Rubin had expected to go to the Capitol by late afternoon to work with Mr. Gingrich on a final proposal. But as they waited anxiously, Mr. Panetta heard first from his Mexican counterpart, who said that the situation there was worsening. And when he finally heard back from the Speaker, more than two hours after he left an urgent message with an aide, the news was just as bad: Mr. Gingrich said he now believed that it would be mid-February at the earliest before the Senate would be ready to vote.
As Mr. Panetta and his colleagues saw it then, that left them no choice but to act alone.
As they worked late into the night in his office to draft a fallback plan for the President, a senior official said today, their consensus was that, for Mexico, any alternative would have meant "chaos -- a total unraveling."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TRENDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); LEON E PANETTA (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



24 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: On Peru Border, Strife Is Yearly Event

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PAPAYAL, Peru, Jan. 31

 BODY:
The ammunition boxes covered with vines, the ancient army trucks sending up clouds of blue diesel smoke, the draftees from the highlands sweating in the lowland equatorial heat -- Inocencio Loayza Rujel says he sees it every January.
"Each year it's the same," grumbled Mr. Loayza, a heavyset banana grower. "The army comes in. They knock down our banana plants for defenses. Nothing happens. Then they go away." 
 This frontier town, a banana's throw from Ecuador, usually sees war tensions build with the approach of the anniversary on Jan. 29 of the 1942 treaty that signed almost half of Ecuador over to Peru. But last weekend the border tensions hit a 14-year peak, with fighting that claimed the lives of nine soldiers.
There have been no more reports of fighting since Sunday. Today, the two sides moved toward a cease-fire and mediation by diplomats from Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States, the four guarantors of the treaty. Talks began today in Rio de Janeiro and are to continue on Wednesday.
"The guarantors should wring the Ecuadoreans' necks," continued Mr. Loayza, a farmer who has spent all of his 41 years in this rustic universe of burros and roosters. "They wouldn't stand eight hours of pressure. We get along marvelously with Brazil, with Bolivia, with Colombia, even with Chile. Why can't the Ecuadoreans leave us alone?"
Why would Ecuador, a country the size of Colorado, regularly pick a fight with Peru, a country the size of Texas and California combined?
The answer lies partly in Ecuador's sense of victimhood. Over the last 150 years it has seen its territory whittled to the point where it is now the smallest country in the Andes, a buffer country between the region's two powers -- Colombia and Peru. With fights over arable land an increasing problem, Ecuador today is South America's most densely populated nation.
In schools, Ecuadoreans study maps that ignore the 1942 treaty and show large chunks of present-day Peru to be part of Ecuador.
"Any politician who wants to go anywhere in Ecuador says Tumbes, Jaen, Maynas are Ecuadorean," Mr. Loayza continued, reciting a mantra of Peruvian place names heard regularly on Ecuadorean television.
On Friday, students marched outside the Presidential Palace in Quito, protesting the economic policy of Ecuador's President, Sixto Duran Ballen. On Monday, after the weekend fighting, students marched again outside the palace -- this time to cheer the President.
On the Peruvian side, militarism is never far from the surface. Every main square in Peru seems to be called the Plaza de Armas. Every airport seems to carry the name of an aviator said to be martyred in the 1941 war.
Papayal's Plaza de Armas is bounded on one side by a Roman Catholic church and on the opposite side by the Jose Lishner army garrison.
"Sergeant Lishner fell in combat in 1941," a noncommissioned officer explained today. Noting that the front lines are separated by only a 100-yard-wide border ravine, the soldier added, "We don't even need binoculars to see the Ecuadoreans."
Eleven months of the year, the banana growers here cross to Chacras, the sister village in Ecuador, where prices are cheaper. On Saturday afternoons there are soccer games, and in the evenings dances. Binational couples are common.
"They look like us," said one peasant, Jose Luis Oyola. They talk like us. They only swear a little differently."
Then January rolls around, local residents say, relations become tense and spouses go back to their original sides of the border to stay with relatives.
With these humid lowlands emerging as Peru's main banana growing area, many growers and workers complained today about the economic cost of their annual forced vacation. Citing "national security," the local military commander bans farmers from entering the fertile border lands, which produce a sweet banana known locally as the silk plantain.
"We take one million bananas a day from here," a truck driver complained, nervously flicking his Volvo keys in his hand. "We bring bananas to Lima, Tacna and Arequipa."
With his high-walled banana truck beached until the end of the hostilities, the driver said he might plan his annual vacation around next January's anniversary of the border treaty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This month nine soldiers died in border clashes linked to the anniversary of a 1942 treaty signing almost half of Ecuador over to Peru. Government troops patrolled the frontier town of Papayal, Peru, yesterday. (Vera Lentz for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Papayal, Peru.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (97%); PERU (96%); BRAZIL (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ANDES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; PERU; PAPAYAL (PERU); ECUADOR (97%); PERU (96%); BRAZIL (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ANDES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; ECUADOR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PERU; TREATIES; POPULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMIES (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TRENDS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); POPULATION DENSITY (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); PUBLIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES INOCENCIO LOAYZA RUJEL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



25 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Mob, Giuliani Proposes Takeover of Fulton Fish Market

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
Acknowledging that Federal intervention had failed to eradicate Mafia influence and business abuses at the Fulton Fish Market, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is proposing new laws to permit New York City to take control of the market.
Under the proposals, the city for the first time would investigate, license and regulate all businesses and employees at the market, in lower Manhattan. And in an attempt to sever suspected Mafia ties to merchants and companies, the city would also have the power to conduct background investigations of companies and their employees and bar those involved in wrongdoing. 
 According to Federal investigators, the city has virtually abdicated responsibility for administering the market during the last 50 years. It relied primarily on Federal efforts to regulate the market and crack down on organized crime.
But despite these periodic crackdowns, the market has remained a rough, insular arena, workers and merchants say, in which organized-crime figures thrive on extortion, secret deals, illegal gambling and loan-sharking.
Although most of the market is on city property along the East River near Fulton Street, the business has been run for decades by two associations representing wholesale dealers and by a group of companies that unload and deliver the 125 million pounds of fresh fish and seafood sold there every year.
Details of the legislative proposal are expected to be announced today by Mayor Giuliani and Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council. Randy M. Mastro, the Mayor's chief of staff, said one of the city's first steps would be to renegotiate the leases of wholesale dealers, whose rents on city property have been unchanged for at least 13 years.
Previous mayoral administrations have been reluctant to seek rent increases for the city because of the possibility that they might be signing long-term contracts with mob-tainted companies.
Mr. Mastro said he hoped the stricter regulations would encourage more companies to ship seafood to the city, and result in lower prices for consumers.
"The city never had an active role in the past in running the market," Mr. Mastro said. "This is the first comprehensive plan to grapple with the crime problem and to improve the business climate in an orderly fashion."
Aides to Mr. Vallone said yesterday that he would probably support the proposals. Mr. Vallone's support on the Democratic-controlled council is considered vital. "Hopefully, this effort will go a long way toward cleaning things up," Mr. Vallone said in a statement.
A vital economic asset to the city, the market generates sales of $800 million to $1 billion annually, and provides more than 800 jobs. Most of the seafood sold at retail stores and served in restaurants in the region is distributed through the market.
Although it is the largest such market in the country, City Council hearings in 1992 found that because of bribes, fraud and threats of violence, the city was losing business to other East Coast markets, especially in Philadelphia and Boston.
The city now receives about $268,000 a year in rent from about 60 wholesalers, but a study for a Federal investigator in 1992 found that the fair market value of the leases was about $3 million. Mr. Mastro said the city's Economic Development Corporation would take over the role of landlord in March and would seek higher rents.
Mark Rudes, president of the Fulton Fish Mongers Association, one of two trade groups that represent the largest dealers, said the current rents were appropriate because the city had not made structural improvements for more than 20 years. Vincent Tatick, head of the other trade group, the New York Wholesale Fish Dealers Association, did not return telephone calls yesterday.
A major goal, Mr. Mastro said, was to eliminate wholesale dealers called "phantoms," who illegally sublease space and sometimes disappear after running up expensive bills with out-of-town companies that have supplied them with seafood.
Last year, the Business Services Department said it had a list of about 60 known tenants in the market, but that as many as 170 wholesale companies were actually doing business there.
Mr. Mastro said the background investigations of companies and employees would be made by the city Department of Investigation. The inquiries, he said, would include examining financial records of companies to determine their true owners, if there are improper payoffs and if there are attempts to evade taxes.
Mr. Mastro also said the campaign would overhaul methods of loading and unloading seafood. Truckers at the market now have no right to determine how their supplies are unloaded. A group of six companies, known as unloaders, have historically arranged among themselves how the supplies are moved.
Because seafood is perishable, truckers and dealers say that the unloaders have an economic stranglehold over them by demanding bribes for fast service.
Similarly, retail merchants or restaurateurs who shop for supplies are assigned parking spots by a group of 11 unlicensed companies, known as loaders. The loaders charge a parking fee and by tradition claim the exclusive right to transport the supplies to the purchasers' cars or vans.
All of the assigned parking spots are on city property, and the loading companies pay about $40,000 a year to the city. But a Federal analysis in 1992 estimated that the city should be getting about $310,000 a year for the parking rights alone.
Gerald J. McMahon, a lawyer for most of the unloading and loading companies, yesterday denied any wrongdoing by these groups. Commenting on the city's licensing plans, he said, "It sounds like the 49th announcement in which politicians are going to come in and clean up the market when it does not need to be cleaned up."
Since the late 1930's, Federal and state investigations have asserted that the Genovese crime family controlled the market through threats of violence and labor slowdowns. Federal authorities said the convictions of controllers of the market had little affect on improving conditions because they were simply replaced by other Genovese members.
In 1986, when Mr. Guiliani was the United States Attorney for the Southern District, he embarked on a new approach to improve conditions at the market. Saying that the city had largely abandoned its oversight responsibilities, Mr. Giuliani obtained the court appointment of Frank H. Wohl as a Federal administrator to monitor the market and to recommend changes.
But the United States Justice Department in 1992 began phasing out Mr. Wohl's role on the ground that supervising the market was a city problem, not a long-range concern for the Federal Government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Merchants and wholesalers made deals amid piles of shellfish and other seafood on a spring morning at the Fulton Fish Market, where Federal and local officials say Mafia influence and business abuses are thriving. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); MAFIA FULTON FISH MONGERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); MAFIA

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ORGANIZED CRIME; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL; GAMBLING; LOAN-SHARKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXTORTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); SEAFOOD (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); CRIME RATES (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



26 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Henry Kraus, Labor Historian And Writer on European Art, 89

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Henry Kraus, the first editor of the United Automobile Workers' national newspaper, a labor historian, an authority on European art and a recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, died on Friday in Paris, where he had lived since 1956. He was 89.
The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothy. 
 Mr. Kraus's seventh and most recent book, "Heroes of Unwritten Story," a personal history of the U.A.W. from 1934 to 1939, was published last year by the University of Illinois Press.
Acclaimed as a chronicler of the American labor movement, Mr. Kraus was also celebrated for his studies of medieval art, which led to such books, sometimes written with his wife, as "The Living Theater of Medieval Art," "Hidden World of Misericords," "Gothic Stalls of Spain" and "Gold Was the Mortar: The Economics of Cathedral Building."
In 1984, Mr. Kraus received a five-year MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, often described as a genius grant, which helped him return to Michigan to conduct research for "Heroes of Unwritten Story" at the labor archives at Wayne State University in Detroit.
Born in Knoxville, Tenn., as a son of immigrants who were active trade unionists, he grew up in Cleveland in a socialist atmosphere. He attended the University of Chicago and Western Reserve University in Cleveland, where he received a master's degree in 1928.
For a time he taught high school mathematics, but in 1930 he began his career in labor journalism, offering his services to publicize the fledging union of auto workers preparing to strike the White Auto Company. His efforts led to the founding of the United Auto Worker, a newspaper circulated among locals in several states, and, later, to his appointment as editor of the U.A.W.'s official publication, the United Automobile Worker.
His involvement with the union led to his study of the Flint, Mich., sit-down strike of 1936-37, "The Many and the Few," which was first published in 1947.
In the mid-1950's, the Krauses moved to Paris, where Mr. Kraus worked as a European correspondent for World Wide Medical News Service. There they renewed their studies of medieval art, particularly of the misericords, carvings on the backs of pews and seats that depicted the daily lives of the craftsmen who created so much of the religious art of Europe's cathedrals and churches.
He is survived by his wife.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (55%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN RESERVE ELECTRONICS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (55%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); RELIGION (73%); CANCER (72%); APPOINTMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: KRAUS, HENRY; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE HENRY D KRAUS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



27 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Governors Agree Children Must Be Protected No Matter What Shape Welfare Takes

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
The National Governors' Association said today that the states ought to have far more power to design their own welfare programs, but the governors could not agree on how much power the Federal Government should retain.
In any event, they said, "Children must be protected." 
 At the end of a four-day meeting here, the governors hailed Federal efforts to give them more control over millions of dollars worth of welfare programs. But Republican governors could not obtain the three-fourths majority needed to put the organization on record in support of their proposal to give states a lump sum of money, or block grant, to take care of poor people.
The main Federal-state welfare program, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, created 60 years ago, is an entitlement program. Anyone who meets the eligibility criteria set by Federal and state laws is entitled to monthly cash payments, regardless of the number of people who apply or the total cost. In hard times, when more people are unemployed, the amount of Federal aid automatically increases.
The governors' association adopted a new policy statement saying: "Governors have not yet reached consensus on whether cash and other entitlement assistance should remain available as Federal entitlements to needy families or whether it should be converted to a state entitlement block grant. Governors do agree, however, that in either case states should have the flexibility to enact welfare reforms without having to request Federal waivers."
Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont, the Democrat who is chairman of the governors' association, said, "This policy will allow us to participate in the Congressional debate on welfare reform, but doesn't commit us to a specific course of action."
The association's statement says that "children must be protected throughout this process" if Congress decides to convert the existing welfare program to a block grant.
The governors arrived at their new policy through difficult negotiations after it seemed that partisan disputes might shatter the organization's tradition of bipartisan cooperation. The governors appear to be less ideological and more pragmatic than many members of Congress, and they can usually arrive at consensus without great difficulty. Mr. Dean said the governors' experience this week "foreshadows the difficult debate that Congress will have over welfare reform."
In their statement, the governors said states should not be required to put up any of their own money if Congress decided to establish a Federal block grant. Under the current program of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, states must match Federal contributions, and affluent states must put up more of their own money for each Federal dollar.
The 50 states contribute a total of more than $10 billion a year. Under the governors' proposal, there would be no requirement for states to continue such spending, but many governors said they would do so voluntarily.
In back-to-back speeches, President Clinton and the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, outlined their ideas on welfare and domestic policy generally. Mr. Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, told the governors: "I want to liberate every one of you to sit down with the people of your state, to ask yourself what can we do to save the children today? Not five years from now, not 10 years from now, not after 22 studies -- today."
Gov. Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, a Democrat, said, "We don't agree among ourselves as to whether the block grant approach or the individual entitlement is best."
Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, a Republican, said the bipartisan compromise was "not everything I would like." Mr. Thompson and two other Republican Governors, John Engler of Michigan and William F. Weld of Massachusetts, have proposed consolidating 298 programs worth $119 billion a year into eight block grants. The programs include welfare, food stamps and child nutrition programs.
Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, has denounced the Republican proposal for block grants, saying it "gives each state a fixed pool of money and leaves the states with virtually complete autonomy to decide who gets support and when."
In a recent memorandum to President Clinton, Dr. Shalala said, "Block grants fail to protect vulnerable children, will not result in real welfare reform and will not protect the states from economic changes."
But the governors said Congress could address such concerns. "An additional amount should be set aside each year for automatic and timely distribution to states that experience higher-than-average unemployment, a major disaster or other indicators of distress," their statement said.
The governors endorsed the principle that welfare should be a transition to work and that there should be time limits on the payment of benefits. But they said states should be free to decide the details for themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; GOVERNORS (US); STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION GOVERNORS (93%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT HOWARD DEAN (54%); HOWARD M DEAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



28 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN;
Mexico's Ripple Effects: Subtle Risks for Americans

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS 

 BODY:
Banks, Wall Street speculators and import-export companies are not the only groups with a stake in the outcome of Mexico's financial crisis. Many ordinary Americans have money on the line and may not realize it. Here are some ways Mexican developments may touch family pocketbooks.
 
Mutual Funds -- Vulnerable funds are not limited to those that specialize in Latin American or emerging-market securities. Many funds whose names and goals give no hint of Latin American or emerging-market exposure nonetheless have made major bets in Mexico and other Latin economies. A few asset-allocation, cash-management and balanced funds had as much as 40 percent of their assets in Latin American stocks and bonds last fall before the peso crisis began.
 
401(k) Plans -- A large part of 401(k) plan assets are invested in mutual funds, so their vulnerability is similar to that of direct mutual fund investments. Even when a plan includes no Latin specialty fund as an option, the broader funds that the plan does include may have substantial Mexican holdings.
 
Pension funds -- Pension funds tend to be more risk-averse and less eager for short-term returns than mutual funds. They generally have only very small parts of their portfolios -- usually less than 10 percent -- invested anywhere abroad; emerging markets like Mexico get only a tiny share.
 
Insurance companies -- The American insurance industry invests less than 10 percent of its assets overseas, and its Mexican exposure is insiginficant. A few smaller companies may have Mexican holdings enough to affect their financial health, and thus their ability to pay claims and dividends; poor investment decisions have sometimes undone individual companies in the past.
 
American employers -- Many major American companies have significant business interests in Mexico, among them consumer products makers like Procter & Gamble, food companies like Pillsbury and all three Detroit automakers. Many more export products to Mexico; the falling peso makes their products much more expensive there. To the extent that profits are affected by the turmoil, profits could filter through to employees directly in layoffs and depressed wages and layoffs, and indirectly through employees' investments in company stock.
 
Mexican employers -- Some, among them Vitro S.A., the giant glassmaker, have major operations and payrolls in the United States. As long as the operations remain profitable in dollar terms, they should not be threatened. But if the Mexican parent has difficulty raising money, expansion plans and capital investment for the United States operations may dry up. PATRICK J. LYONS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VITRO (BMV) (63%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3221 GLASS CONTAINERS (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: VITRO SAB DE CV (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSURANCE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TRENDS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LAYOFFS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); GLASS MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); 

PERSON: LYONS, PATRICK J

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



29 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Rescue Plan

 BODY:
Fearing imminent Mexican bankruptcy and Congressional inaction, President Clinton made the right call yesterday to rescue the Mexican economy himself. He ditched a $40 billion plan, which Congress was not going to approve anytime soon, in favor of a stripped-down program to provide Mexico $20 billion in loans and loan guarantees that require no Congressional action. The Administration also announced that the International Monetary Fund would lend Mexico up to $17.8 billion to pay back creditors and $10 billion from central banks to help stabilize the peso.
The President's action was justified by a looming financial emergency: Mexico could have defaulted within days, cutting it off from foreign investment and plunging its economy into recession. Millions of Mexicans and tens of thousands of U.S. workers in export industries would have been hurt. And financial turbulence could have spread through Latin America. 
 Mexico's crisis was driven by foreign investors who wanted their money back rather than risk their investments to further depreciation of the peso, let alone default. Mr. Clinton's original idea was to provide Mexico with $40 billion in loan guarantees -- more than enough to reassure investors that their loans were safe. The centerpiece of the plan was a pledge by Mexico to put future oil revenues in escrow so that the U.S. would never need to use its own money to pay back Mexican creditors. Indeed, U.S. taxpayers would come out ahead, since Mexico would pay fees for the use of the guarantees. Mexico would also agree to stringent restrictions on its monetary and fiscal policy that would assure investors of the economy's long-term health.
The new plan is built along the same smart lines -- though investors might be disquieted that some of the loans would be for a shorter term than Mr. Clinton originally proposed. The U.S. money, in the event it were needed, would be drawn from a Treasury fund that is used, at the Administration's discretion, to stabilize the value of the dollar; the possible use would pose no threat because the Government has other resources for currency intervention. Mexico is still expected to put up oil revenues as collateral and rule out fiscal and monetary excess.
The new plan leaves some important questions unanswered. Will the I.M.F. place impossible hurdles between its money and Mexico? Will the conditions on Mexican monetary policy be tight enough to reassure skittish investors? Is the U.S. politically prepared to keep Mexico's oil revenues in the unlikely event that Mexico defaults?
Mr. Clinton's first plan hit opposition in Congress because it was unfairly depicted by opponents as a bailout for Wall Street financiers. Mr. Clinton failed to make a persuasive case that many of the creditors who would benefit from stabilization of the peso would be American workers with pension funds and mutual funds invested in Mexico. That is still the case.
Decisive Presidential action always risks subordinating the appropriate Congressional role in the commitment of Federal resources, and this case should not be a model for Mr. Clinton. But there was no time for delay, and he did not move until he got the approval of both Republican and Democratic Congressional leaders.
The Administration can be faulted for lying back when Mexico was running through its reserves last year. It can be faulted for ineptly presenting a smart first rescue plan to the American public. But it deserves credit for coming to Mexico's rescue when there was no time left to navigate a bill through Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GOVERNMENT BONDS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); BONDS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



30 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Everybody's Nest Egg

SERIES: SOCIAL SECURITY'S FUTURE -- Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By James Gollin; James Gollin has written about Social Security for 15 years.

DATELINE: POUND RIDGE, N.Y.

 BODY:
To its supporters, Social Security is a sacred cow. To its critics, it's designed to mulct the young for the benefit of the old. The debate has been less than illuminating.
Proponents of the present system -- and that includes pretty much everyone in Congress and the Administration -- argue feverishly that tampering with Social Security benefits would be a gross injustice to the elderly. 
 The system has no overt opponents. Even Newt Gingrich has repeatedly declared Social Security off limits, on the sensible ground that Americans don't trust any politician enough -- yet -- even to listen to any proposal to tinker with it. The operative word, of course, is "yet."
Mr. Gingrich & Company evidently believe that if they are still in power in six years, they will have have won the electorate's confidence so entirely that they can privatize Social Security, devolve it to the states or otherwise "strengthen" it.
Never mind the cries of the one in five Americans now drawing benefits. The ecstatic applause of millions of baby boomers and their successor generations will be far louder. They loathe Social Security taxes. They ask: Why should we pay? We'll never see a dime's worth of benefits.
Besides, every American knows or should know that "privatize," "devolve" and "strengthen" are transparent euphemisms for "dump."
Serious debate should start with the reality that Social Security provides advantages to both young and old. First, it is a bloodless way to help ease older people out of the work force and make room for younger workers. With the good-paying jobs that politicians prattle about in short supply and likely to continue to be so, this is no small virtue.
Nor does one have to be a master of multiplier economics to recognize that $292 billion a year in Social Security benefits generates a huge amount of economic activity, to the gain of Americans of all ages. Or to understand that it's less of a drag on one's household economy, and psyche, to pay taxes over many years for the support of old people -- read "mom and dad" -- than to have to start doing it out of pocket when mom and dad are old.
Serious debate should continue with the awareness that today's retirement program cannot and must not be immunized against change. In 1937, when Social Security was introduced, only workers in industry and commerce were covered; today, virtually everybody is. It has a history of change, marked by aggressive expansion of coverage in the 1950's, 60's and early 70's.
Both political parties have long enthusiastically supported the growth of Social Security. After Barry Goldwater's disastrous "make it voluntary" remark blighted his candidacy in 1964, Republicans outdid Democrats in the expansion race.
By 1980, the glory days were over. How to pay for it all was beginning to worry even devotees. That year, President Jimmy Carter's advisory commission on pension policy delicately suggested that the Government raise the normal retirement age to 70 from 65, sharply cut the income benefit for early retirement and try to think of ways to create or keep jobs for people in their 60's despite a growing tendency to push them out of the work force.
Nobody advocated privatization or devolution. The Goldwater debacle taught conservatives their lesson: throughout the 80's, the Reaganites left Social Security alone.
The Gingrich crowd will not follow suit. They will base their argument for getting Social Security off the backs of the people on the conjecture that the "dependency ratio" -- the proportion of active to retired workers -- will go from about 3 to 1 now to 2 to 1 by the year 2030. They argue that because Social Security is a pay-as-you-go program, either this will impose a monstrous tax burden on the young (which they will vote not to pay) or the system will run out of money.
But is this shift in ratio -- assuming it happens -- really so significant? Productivity matters more: the total income that workers generate in relation to the costs of the benefits is more important than the mere number of workers in relation to the number of retirees. If people produce more and earn more, as seems likely -- and the politicians don't bid up the benefits -- maybe the cost burden won't be intolerable after all. May we won't have to privatize support of the elderly, even if that makes life insurance companies unhappy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: GOLLIN, JAMES; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



31 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Shell Game

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey is galloping toward (she hopes) the Republican Vice-Presidential nomination. It's an excellent adventure that could end with the bold, aggressive and politically astute Mrs. Whitman becoming the first woman President of the United States. There is, however, a flip side to Mrs. Whitman's quest. To the chagrin of many people in New Jersey, it is already resulting in the trampling of that state's long-term economic interests.
In her nationally televised response to President Clinton's State of the Union address, Mrs. Whitman said, "Just yesterday, I announced a third wave of income tax cuts -- another 15 percent -- taking us to a 30 percent reduction." 
 Just yesterday. Just like that. It's a remarkable formula Mrs. Whitman has developed. When she slipped behind in the polls in the final weeks of her gubernatorial race against Jim Florio, Mrs. Whitman turned things around by dramatically announcing she would cut the state income tax by 30 percent over three years. The next thing she knew she was Governor.
Then, amid all the talk about what an asset she'd be on a G.O.P. Presidential ticket, Mrs. Whitman was asked to deliver the Republican response to the State of the Union address. Suddenly the 30 percent tax cut over three years was changed to 30 percent over two years. Just like that. "Just yesterday . . ."
While this cut-at-will policy is great for Mrs. Whitman's ego and ambition, it has some dire consequences for New Jersey. The income tax is not a problem in that state; the property tax is. And while Mrs. Whitman is dismantling the income tax in the service of her political career, property taxes throughout the state are soaring.
"New Jersey is more dependent on the property tax than any other state in the Union," said Joseph Roberts, a Democratic assemblyman. "Last year the average income tax saving was $40, but the average property tax increase was $170. It's the property taxes that are driving people out of their homes, and affecting our senior citizens, and hurting the middle class."
Mrs. Whitman gets to say on national television that she cut taxes, and she is right. What she doesn't mention are the consequences of her tax cuts.
"The income tax reductions are returning the entire burden of education in the suburban districts right back to the shoulders of the property owners," said Rhua Ernst, business administrator for the Wayne Township school district. "In terms of property owners, there are no tax cuts. There are tax increases."
Similar complaints can be heard throughout the state. James Murphy, president of the New Jersey Association of School Administrators, said: "We think the amount of money that's being given in [income] tax cuts is more than offset by the increase in local property taxes due to a loss of state aid to many local districts. All polls will tell you that the thing that hurts is the property tax."
Meanwhile, there's the matter of the public employee pension funds. When Mrs. Whitman applied her ax to the income tax, she had to find alternate funds to balance the state budget. With a sly gleam reminiscent of Willie Sutton's whenever he saw a bank, Mrs. Whitman's gaze rested on the billions of dollars in the pension funds. It didn't take long to decide. They would be raided.
This was done by drastically reducing the state's annual contributions to the funds. In effect, billions of dollars' worth of pension obligations are being put off to a much later date. Some future governor will have to raise taxes (or cut pension benefits) to satisfy these obligations, not Mrs. Whitman.
New Jersey had been following a conservative, extremely prudent approach to fulfilling its pension obligations. It was analogous to new parents putting away a certain amount of money each year to cover the eventual cost of their children's education. Mrs. Whitman has turned that approach on its head. She needs cash now, and if mortgaging the state's future is the way to obtain it, so be it. She needs to cover her tax cuts. She wants to be Vice President. When the bills ultimately come due, as they will, she will be gone.
She hopes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (63%); SUBURBS (60%); AT WILL EMPLOYMENT (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); HERBERT, BOB BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



32 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Yeltsin's Economic Chechnya

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland

 BODY:
During a seminar on Russia at the Davos Economic Forum, Russia's Minister of Economy, Yevgeny Yasin, was extolling Boris Yeltsin's economic policies. As he spoke in Russian, the audience listened raptly to the translation through headsets, but after a few minutes they began to suspect that something was wrong. They were right. Somehow the translation from a Japan seminar next door got switched with Mr. Yasin's translation, and the audience was hearing the Russian minister extol the virtues of the Japanese auto industry.
Now, you could confuse Boris Yeltsin's economics with a lot of things, but the Japanese economy isn't one of them. Unfortunately, real economic reform isn't one of them either. And that's the problem. 
 Mr. Yeltsin has not only lost his way in Chechnya, he has lost his way in economics as well. And for the same reasons: too much vodka on his desk, too few reformers at his side and too many idiot apparatchiks around him all the time. While TV has focused on the dramatic battering of Grozny, it has missed the mundane but even more devastating battering that Mr. Yeltsin's policies have been delivering to Russia's ruble, budget and foreign investors.
It is too late to save Chechnya, but it may not be too late to save Russian economic reform. To do so, though, requires giving Mr. Yeltsin shock therapy. For months now Boris has been blackmailing us with his weakness, saying in effect: "I am fragile, don't push me too hard. If I fall, you will have to deal with really crazy people." I'm not for toppling Mr. Yeltsin. But by being so worried about what comes after him, the Clinton team has lost sight of what has happened to Mr. Yeltsin himself -- and made Washington a hostage of his weakness. His weakness is his strength only if we let it be, and it's time we stopped letting it be.
What's the problem? Inflation, which was 4 percent a month in August, is now roaring along at 16 percent a month, because the Russian Central Bank has lost control of the money supply. The 1995 Yeltsin budget is as phony as a rubber ruble, particularly its assumptions on inflation and the deficit. Mr. Yeltsin rattled investors by appointing and then sacking a complete incompetent to run the key privatization ministry. Foreign portfolio investment in Russia fell from $500 million in July to $20 million in December.
There were basically two views on Mr. Yeltsin among the global investors and experts gathered at the Davos forum -- those who think he is irredeemably lost and those who think he is just lost.
Those who think he is irredeemably lost included people like the financier George Soros, who argued that Mr. Yeltsin had thrown in his lot with the security apparatus and military-industrial complex against the new entrepreneurial class -- a confrontation that makes for bad economics and dangerous politics. "Yeltsin has been captured by a bunch of people who want to restart a dictatorship," said Mr. Soros, whose foundation has financed Russian reform programs. The West, he adds, should be "very leery" about putting any more money there now. Boris Fyordorov, Mr. Yeltsin's former Finance Minister, was even more blunt: "If the West is ready to help this guy now, then it doesn't understand what is happening in Russia."
Those who thought Mr. Yeltsin was badly lost but maybe redeemable included many European and Russian businessmen, who reported that the factories they have opened in Russia are actually doing quite well -- thanks to past Yeltsin reforms -- but are now in need of a more stable economic environment. They argue that because Mr. Yeltsin is such a forceful personality, if he could be redeemed he could provide far stronger economic leadership than the whiny liberals or corrupt ministers who now oppose him.
I agree. Mr. Yeltsin may be too far gone, but it's worth one last check of his pulse. We should do that by telling him we will only help save him if he first saves himself. The I.M.F. is now negotiating a $12 billion loan package with Mr. Yeltsin. Washington should bluntly tell Boris that it will block that I.M.F. loan until his budget is demonstrably under control, real reformers are restored to his office and Central Bank, corrupt ministers banished and the Chechnya conflict ended. That's the only way out for him and Russia, so why mute our voices any longer?
If we're not going to give the guy any money, the least we can do is give him the truth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); TRENDS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); MONEY SUPPLY (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



33 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: We Must Be Ready When the War Bell Rings;
Pentagon Overkill

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Pentagon's Trap Doors" (editorial, Jan. 24) and "Grasping the Obvious" (editorial, Jan. 11) make a strong case against the powerful political forces that are attempting to maintain and even increase our military expenditures in a post-cold war world. The case can be made even stronger by looking at the competition. 
 The Pentagon has argued that it needs sufficient strength to fight and win two wars simultaneously. Which countries are considered potential threats to United States security?
The leading candidates and their estimated annual military expenditures (in 1993) are Russia, $29 bil lion; China, $22 billion; Iraq, $9 billion; North Korea, $2 billion; and Iran, Syria and Cuba, $1.2 billion each.
The largest of these countries, Russia, is finding it difficult indeed to subdue Chechnya, a tiny rebellious republic within its borders.
It is also worth noting that the total military spending of these eight countries is $66 billion, less than one-fourth the $277 billion spent on defense by the United States in 1993.
Let's look now at our real competition, namely the world's top 10 military spenders.
The United States is No. 1 with $277 billion in 1993. Far behind in second place is Japan with a measly $40 billion, one-seventh of the United States level. France, Britain and Germany follow with $36 billion, $35 billion and $31 billion, respectively.
Russia and China are next and are followed by Italy, Saudi Arabia and South Korea with, respectively, expenditures of $17 billion, $16 billion and $12 billion.
So, the other nine nations in the top 10 in 1993 spent only $238 billion, or $39 billion less than the United States.
This should leave no question in anyone's mind, Republican or Democrat, that the United States is the superpower many times over. Moreover, with the exception of Russia and China, all military spending by top-10 countries was by the United States and its allies for a total $454 billion. This outstrips sevenfold our potential enemies with $66 billion.
It is hard to believe that President Clinton and Congress are planning to increase military spending. We are so powerful that no set of countries threatens our security in the least over the foreseeable future. Our national welfare would benefit if a good share of resources now going to defense were used to meet civilian needs and to reduce our budget deficit.
 
FRANKLYN D. HOLZMAN
Lexington, Mass., Jan. 25, 1995
The writer, a retired economics professor at Tufts, is a fellow at Harvard's Russian Research Center.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (54%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (54%); GERMANY (54%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RANKINGS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: HOLZMAN, FRANKLYN D (PROF) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1995



34 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: A Hollywood Role for a Capitol Star?

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Speaker Newt Gingrich likes to talk about renewing civilization, but did he mean Hollywood, too?
Some in Hollywood think so. The movie moguls want to bring him out. Not to star in a picture, at least not yet. But to star at a gala dinner to give a lift to conservatives in Tinsel Town. 
 "Newt is a huge celebrity," said David Horowitz, an author and former lefty who turned right in the early 1980's and now promotes conservative views in Hollywood through his nonprofit Center for the Study of Popular Culture.
Mr. Horowitz dropped in on the Speaker's press secretary the other day. Mr. Horowitz met Mr. Gingrich a few years ago, after Mr. Horowitz wrote a book called "Destructive Generation," a critical look at the 1960's. Mr. Gingrich read the book and invited him and his co-author, Peter Collier, to Washington for lunch. "In June, I want to bring Newt out to Hollywood," Mr. Horowitz told the press secretary, Tony Blankley, last Friday.
Mr. Horowitz said he wants Mr. Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, to be the star attraction at a dinner with Arnold Schwarzenegger, Kevin Costner, Delta Burke, Cheryl Ladd, Gerald McRainey, other actors and scores of "wheeler-dealers" whom Mr. Horowitz said he could not identify but nonetheless are eager to celebrate the Republican revolution on Capitol Hill.
"Sounds fabulous," said Mr. Blankley. "Let's talk."
Mr. Blankley had no trouble adopting the mogul lingo, having grown up in Hollywood and worked as a child actor in such movies as "The Harder They Fall" with Humphrey Bogart.
"Hollywood is moving like crazy," Mr. Horowitz went on. "The liberals are all fed up with Clinton. Clinton is over. It's happening. We'll do Power Rangers. We'll have Newt. It's a way of saying, 'This is the new establishment, this is the new world.' "
As it happened, Mr. Schwarzenegger -- in town to promote the Inner City Olympics for poor youths -- dropped in on the Speaker today. He said he chatted with Mr. Gingrich, whom he called "our leader," about the program.
During a picture-taking session before the two went behind closed doors, Mr. Schwarzenegger was asked what fitness advice he might have for the Speaker. He said he was glad Mr. Gingrich was swimming every day. The Speaker said that if he did not exercise he would soon be starring in a movie called "The Last Couch Potato."
"There were two radical movements in the 60's," Mr. Horowitz said in an interview after leaving Mr. Blankley's office. "One of them nobody ever writes about, and that's the one Gingrich came out of. Now, all those people are in charge of the House."
Mr. Horowitz sees the new Speaker as the "breakthrough" personality who can "get the attention of nonpolitical people."
"It's exactly the reverse of when Jane Fonda committed treason and came back and won an Academy Award," he said, referring to her visit to Hanoi during the Vietnam War. "That was a very significant moment in Hollywood. It made it acceptable to be extreme left. That ushered in the era of the Oliver Stones."
"We want equal time," he continued. The Republican takeover of Congress and the elevation of Mr. Gingrich to the Speakership, he said, "is the breakthrough for a persecuted group of people who've been driven underground."
Mr. Horowitz was accompanied by Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican and one of two members of the House who are surfers, and later had lunch with Representative Christopher Cox, another California Republican.
Hollywood's interest in the Speaker comes at a time when the Speaker is demonstrating a strong interest in California, as does anyone with an eye on electoral politics. Mr. Gingrich has appointed a special California task force made up of Republican members of Congress from California.
"Politically, culturally and economically, California is pivotal to influencing the direction of the country as a whole," said Mr. Rohrabacher. "Newt wants to make sure he's not behind the curve. He's setting up his structure so he has input."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Newt Gingrich, star of the new Republican majority in Washington, is being wooed by conservative actors, long a frustrated minority in Hollywood. Mr. Gingrich joined the film star Arnold Schwarzenegger -- who called the Speaker "our leader" -- outside the Capitol. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DELTA BURKE DESIGN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US);

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; ; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MOTION PICTURES; CONSERVATISM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITY LIFE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (64%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); NEWT GINGRICH (94%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1995



35 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
As expected, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates by half a percentage point. The increase, the Fed's seventh in 12 months, prompted large banks to follow suit immediately, causing borrowing costs to rise for millions of Americans. [Page A1.]
 
Orange County bondholders are worried as a shortfall looms for bond payments. Warnings by officials of the California county that they will not raise taxes to solve the problem undermine a basic tenet of municipal bonds: borrowers are obligated to repay their debts, even if it means cutting services and raising taxes. [D1.] 

A bill to end price controls for cable television after one year and let the regional Bells enter the long-distance market after three years was proposed by Senate Republicans. [D1.]
 
The Government's main economic forecasting gauge rose slightly in December. Construction spending gained 1.1 percent. [D4.]
 
Florida is worried that the baseball strike will batter its economy. Spring training brings $315 million to the economy a year. [A14.]
 
Companies
 
William J. Agee is leaving Morrison Knudsen, without having attained the turnaround he had sought since 1988. His departure comes as Morrison has suffered setbacks in both in its traditional construction business and in railroad equipment. [D1.]
 
Where is the auto market headed? Changes by auto makers in the way they tally sales have made it almost impossible to tell. The confusion could not come at a worse time: investors are nervous because of ambiguous signs of a slowdown and are desperate for a sense of what is happening in auto showrooms. [D1.]
 
Ben & Jerry's named a new chief executive. The new chief is a corporate turnaround consultant, who, after his appointment, submitted a job application in the form of a 32-line poem. [D1.]
 
Regulators seized Capital Corporate Federal Credit Union. [D2.]
 
Ford Motor said it more than doubled earnings for the fourth quarter, helped by a turnaround in its overseas operations.
 
Louisiana regulators lifted a ban on Bally Gaming, giving it permission to supply gaming equipment to a casino. [D3.]
 
A new chief was named for Arm and Hammer. [D4.]
 
Nynex failed to protect the privacy of 30,000 customers. [B1.]
 
The S.E.C. sanctioned an investment adviser in radio ads. [D6.]
 
International
 
Mexico turned to the task of rebuilding its shattered economy as President Clinton's $50 billion rescue plan brought a temporary euphoria to the country's markets and business leaders. [A1.]
 
Mexico is a much different case than Orange County for there is no equivalent to bankruptcy for nations. The more troubling question from economists' view is why the bailout rationale for Mexico is different from, say, Russia. News Analysis. [A12.]
 
Markets
 
Stocks were little changed. The S.& P.500 slipped 0.02 point. [D8.]
 
Treasury prices fell after the Fed raised interest rates. [D7.]
 
The dollar retreated. [D18.] Copper prices tumbled. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Does a higher minimum wage hurt job growth? While conventional economic theory argues against raising the minimum wage, two respected labor economists contend that the data support the opposite conclusion. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
The tax benefits of equity swaps are likely to end soon, but there is still time for investors to take advantage of current I.R.S rules on such derivative securities. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
 
Armchair quarterbacks went on line to evaluate Super Bowl ads. The two most discussed spots: Rold Gold's parachuting pretzel boy and the Pespi truck stop ad. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); BYI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (54%); NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (56%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (54%); BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BASEBALL (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); GAMING (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



36 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Umbrella Credit Union Seized by Regulators

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The Capital Corporate Federal Credit Union, the latest victim of a bad bet in derivatives, has been seized by Federal credit union regulators.
The move by the National Credit Union Administration late Monday to take over the day-to-day operations of Cap Corp, as it is known, came after Cap Corp, based in Latham, Md., incurred $100 million in losses on its huge portfolio of collateralized mortgage obligations. Cap Corp is one of the nation's largest umbrella credit organizations, covering more than one million individual members. The takeover is the first since the N.C.U.A. was established in 1970. 
 These securities, known as C.M.O.'s, are considered derivatives because they are created out of pools of home mortgages.
Some analysts said they expected that the decision to place Cap Corp into conservatorship would be merely the first step to eventual liquidation.
But regulatory officials and other credit union representatives said that since capital ratios at the nation's 12,500 credit unions were at record highs, there was little likelihood that individual members would lose money as a result of Cap Corp's problems.
In a statement issued yesterday, regulatory officials asserted that all 483 member credit unions "will have full access to their funds."
In the statement, Norman E. D'Amours, chairman of the National Credit Union Administration, said: "The daily financial lives of credit union members will not be noticeably affected by our actions. For credit union members, it will be business as usual."
Like Orange County, Calif., over the last three years Cap Corp had employed an increasingly high-risk investment strategy based on leverage and C.M.O.'s.
As long as interest rates fell, the strategy paid off. But when the Federal Reserve Board started to push interest rates higher in February 1994, the value of Cap Corp's portfolio began to fall. Cap Corp compounded the problem by borrowing against its securities to buy more C.M.O.'s.
The magnitude of Cap Corp's crisis was exposed nearly two months ago, when, unable to liquidate below-market investments, it could no longer meet liquidity needs of its member credit unions without violating the Federal borrowing regulations. Consequently, on Dec. 7 the Cap Corp board froze accounts for 60 days. The freeze is scheduled to expire on Monday.
Robert E. Loftus, a spokesman for the Federal agency, said deposits of the individual members of Cap Corp's 483 member credit unions were insured up to $100,000 by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, a Government-backed agency.
The Federal agency said that capital ratios of the nation's credit unions averaged 9.8 percent. "They are almost embarrassingly strong," said Bill Hampel, chief economist at the Credit Union National Association. "They could afford a few knocks and still be in decent shape."
The negative effect of the $100 million loss will also be softened by $37 million in reserves on Cap Corp's books.
Cap Corp is one of 45 special credit unions, known as corporate credit unions, that were created to invest excess cash or supply funds quickly to their member institutions, depending on loan demand.
Traditionally, corporate credit unions have invested in Treasury and other low-risk, highly liquid securities. But when interest rates began falling, some corporate credit unions ventured into derivatives, and Cap Corp was more aggressive than most: at the end of November, when its liquidity crisis struck, some $1.09 billion of its $1.9 billion investment portfolio was made up of C.M.O.'s. They had not defaulted, so theoretically Cap Corp could have held them until they matured at face value.
But loan demand at the credit unions that own Cap Corp rose during 1994, so they asked Cap Corp for their money. Rather than sell off investments at a loss, Cap Corp began borrowing. By the end of November, its borrowings totaled $867 million, close to the permissible ceiling. So, Federal officials, making it clear they would not permit further borrowing, recommended Cap Corp seek a merger partner. Its attempts were not successful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (85%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL CORPORATE FEDERAL CREDIT UNION; NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (50%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (93%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPITAL CORPORATE FEDERAL CREDIT UNION; NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (93%); NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS (CMOS); DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) CREDIT UNIONS (97%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



37 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Drop After Fed's Rate Move

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dropped yesterday, following the awaited move by the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates by half of a percentage point.
The bond market for weeks had been expecting the central bank's seventh rate increase in the last year, traders said. But yesterday's selloff was not necessarily a sign of displeasure, but rather the act of investors who had bought securities on the bet that the Fed would raise rates, and now were selling to take profits. 
 And as so often happens, investors immediately began focusing on future events after the Fed's rate increase was announced yesterday afternoon and these new concerns helped drive prices lower. Tomorrow the Government will release the closely followed monthly employment numbers for January. If they are strong, many investors will begin worrying about another Fed rate increase. And next week the market will have added supply when the Treasury sells $40 billion of new securities during its quarterly auction.
By late in the day the 30-year bond bond was down 20/32 of a percentage point, to 97 5/32 , for a yield of 7.74 percent, up from 7.69 percent on Tuesday. For investors it meant the loss of $6.25 for each $1,000 invested.
Shorter-maturity bills and notes also came under pressure, with the rate for three-month and six-month maturities up five basis points, to 5.87 percent and 6.16 percent, respectively. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
The Fed raised the discount rate to 5.25 percent from 4.75 percent, and the Federal funds target rate to 6 percent from 5.50 percent. Even more critical to the market is concern that the latest move is not the last.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities, said that "at this point the Fed does not know if recent signs of slowing will continue, and if so, to what degree." He continued, "While it is clear that a slowdown in the economy should be expected after the torrid pace of the last three quarters of 1994, it is the timing and extent of moderation that will determine future Fed policy decisions."
The Fed, he added, was likely to be in a tightening mode until year-to-year economic growth is 3.5 percent or less and heading toward a desired 2.5 percent. This means another rate rise, Mr. Fine said, at or before the scheduled Fed policy-making meeting in May; he expects the Federal funds rate to rise to 6.50 percent.
Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, said the move by the Fed yesterday was good for the economy because it was needed to slow growth. "But for the U.S. credit market," he said, "I think it may have needed a 75-basis-point adjustment to assure it that the Fed was quite serious about eradicating both current and future inflationary trends."
Bond prices slid in early trading ahead of the Fed's announcement on some early economic reports. There was some slippage on a strong construction spending report showing a rise of 8.7 percent in 1994, the biggest increase in 10 years, as borrowing costs failed to slow demand. December construction spending was up 1.1 percent.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's index came in at a higher-than-expected 57.9 for January, compared with a revised 57.5 for December, while the Commerce Department's index of leading indicators rose a scant one-tenth of 1 percent in December after a three-tenths of 1 percent rise in November.
The volume of trading remained moderate until the afternoon, as key market investors and dealers awaited the policy statement by the central bank. Not long after, the Treasury announced the size of its quarterly refunding for next week. The auctions begin with the sale of $17 billion in new 3-year notes on Tuesday, $12 billion in 10-year notes on Wednesday and $11 billion in 30-year bonds on Thursday.
In when-issued trading ahead of these auctions, the 3-year notes were offered at a price to yield 7.55 percent, the 10-year notes at a price to yield 7.66 percent and the 30-year bond at a price to yield 7.70 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October 1994. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); AUCTIONS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



38 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Confusion Reigns in Auto Sales

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 1

 BODY:
One might think it a pretty straightforward act, toting up car and light-truck sales.
But many of the world's auto makers tried to tally their January sales today, and the result was chaos that made it impossible to determine for sure if the market is headed up, down or sideways. 
 The auto makers could not even agree on how many days last month their dealers' showrooms were open. Subaru said there were 24 sales days. Mitsubishi said there were 26 sales days. Honda counted 25. And Ford said it would not report its sales until Friday.
The confusion could not come at a worse time. Investors are already nervous because of ambiguous signs that the auto market is softening. As vehicle sales data, once a venerable economic indicator, disintegrated, analysts were left groping for some sign of the market's condition, and grappling with something of an existential crisis.
"I don't know what to believe," said John Casesa, auto analyst with Wertheim, Schroder & Company in New York. "You're probably going to ask me how I'm going to analyze this stuff, and I have no idea."
Early today, the Ford Motor Company said it earned a record $1.56 billion in the fourth quarter. That meant the Big Three made more money in 1994 -- almost $14 billion -- than ever before. [Page D3.]
Also today, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates again, confident the economy is growing too fast for its taste. But all one could infer with certainty from January's vehicle sales is that auto makers badly need to polish their green eyeshades.
January sales figures became blurry because most auto makers changed the way they report sales. They switched from reporting on the third business day of the month to reporting on the first business day, today. The auto makers that switched say they did so because computerized systems allow them to report faster.
But those that did not make the switch say that sales reports from dealers can take several days to trickle in after the sales are made. That means the auto makers probably failed to count some sales from the last days of January.
Still, no one knows how bad the undercount is. Both the General Motors Corporation and the Chrysler Corporation switched to the new system, and both said that sales fell during the month. But it was difficult to determine how much of the shortfall was caused by too few customers and how much by too few reporting days.
Ford, which did not switch, predicted today that when it does release its numbers, they will show sales increased in January. The Nissan Motor Company was the other major auto maker to hold out against the new system.
Meanwhile, the Toyota Motor Corporation said that its January sales rose strongly. But perhaps the company did even better than it thinks.
"There's too much noise in these numbers, and it would do more harm than good to try to draw any conclusions from them," said Harvey Heinbach, auto analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York. He said he preferred to ignore them, but "I realize the market's not going to let us."
The reason the stock market is so insistent is that investors are desperate for a clear sense of what is happening in auto showrooms. Auto makers have been increasing rebates and cutting production, possible signs of softening demand. There's no indicator of actual demand, however, like sales.
The reporting change is likely to distort January sales reports most egregiously. In future months, however, the sales numbers will still not be truly comparable to the previous year's results.
Faced with this confusion, analysts sought guidance from dealers. The trouble was that they offered no consensus. Sales "weren't as good as last January, and not as good as they should be," said Linda Schwarz, new car sales manager at Integrity Chevrolet-Geo in Parma Heights, Ohio. She blamed rising interest rates for the slowdown.
Other dealers said the rates were not biting yet, and that any apparent softness in the market was normal for the winter. "We're about 5 percent up over last January," said Manly Eubank, president of Palmetto Ford in Charleston, S.C. "January and February are typically slow."
Caveats aside, G.M. said today that its vehicle sales in January fell 5.5 percent, to 329,515. While cars fell 11.6 percent, G.M. said, trucks gained 4.0 percent. At Chrysler, vehicle sales slipped 6 percent, to 148,638, with light trucks dropping by 9 percent while cars fell by 1 percent.
Honda's sales slipped 5.6 percent, to 46,442. But Toyota said its sales soared by 18.5 percent, to 79,717. Mazda said its sales plunged 23.8 percent, to 18,860.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); SCHRODER & CO INC (69%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; STATISTICS AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



39 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Drops Despite Rise In Interest Rates by the Fed

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates by half a percentage point, a move many currency dealers had expected.
"It was a case of 'Buy the rumor, sell the news,' and the selling was completed quickly," said Jerry Egan, managing director of foreign exchange at the MTB Bank in New York. 
 The dollar slumped after the Fed announced yesterday afternoon that it had raised the rate for overnight loans among banks to 6 percent from 5.5 percent.
While higher rates often bolster the dollar by making United States deposits more attractive, many market participants had already bought dollars expecting the Fed move, traders said.
"When the dollar didn't rise after the rate increase, everybody wanted to be the first one out the door," said Kevin Lawrie, foreign exchange manager at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.5180 German marks from 1.5238 marks on Tuesday and to 1.2840 Swiss francs from 1.2855 francs. The dollar fell to 99.20 Japanese yen from 99.57 yen. The British pound rose to $1.5827 from $1.5795.
On Tuesday, the dollar surged after President Clinton announced an international rescue plan that could total $50 billion to stabilize Mexico's battered financial markets.
The rescue plan makes it less likely that Mexico's crisis will hurt the United States, traders said. The Mexican peso strengthened for a second day yesterday, rising to 5.38 pesos to the dollar from 5.75 pesos Tuesday.
"I'm truly surprised the dollar hasn't risen," said Varick Martin, foreign exchange manager at the Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company in New York. "This could be an aberrational movement. I find it hard to believe that after today and yesterday, we would see anything but a strong dollar."
Yesterday's increase is the Fed's seventh in less than a year. The United States discount rate is now higher than Germany's 4.5 percent discount rate and Japan's 1.75 percent rate.
Though rates are higher in the United States, many investors still prefer marks and yen because of concerns stemming from the Mexican crisis.
"The most important factor for the dollar is Mexico," Mr. Egan at the MTB Bank said. "The progress of the rescue package is key."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); MTB (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); M&T BANK CORP (65%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (70%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



40 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Casino Panel in Louisiana Lifts a Ban on Bally Gaming

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Bally Gaming Inc. won permission from Louisiana regulators today to supply gaming equipment to a casino of the Harrah's Jazz Company, reversing a ban imposed by the casino commission's executive director.
Although a $6.2 million contract with Harrah's Jazz was the immediate stake in the decision, Bally Gaming officials had said that if the ban was not lifted, it could affect the company's gambling licenses in 17 other states. 
 Wilmore Whitmore, the top administrative officer of the Louisiana Economic Development and Gaming Corporation, banned Bally on Jan. 12 after Federal prosecutors named it as the victim in what the prosecutors said was a scheme by three organized crime families to infiltrate Louisiana's video poker industry through two companies, Worldwide Gaming of Louisiana and Louisiana Route Operators. Mr. Whitmore said Bally Gaming had not done enough to avoid questionable ties.
The commission lifted the ban today after refusing to hear from a defendant in the Federal case. The decision allows Bally to sell slot machines and a computer to a temporary casino that Harrah's plans to open in April.
However, the decision was only a partial victory for Bally's. Before Bally Gaming can do business with the permanent casino of Harrah's Jazz, expected to be the world's largest, it will have to reapply to the commission for permission. The casino will be the only land casino in Louisiana.
Bally Gaming executives testified that they advanced Worldwide Gaming and Louisiana Route about $3 million and provided a $25 million credit line to set up a video poker operation in 1991 and 1992, but later withdrew after they became suspicious of the two concerns.
Bally Gaming executives have blamed a former company president, Alan Maiss, for the company's involvement. Mr. Maiss has pleaded guilty to a Federal charge of having video poker dealings with a person who was not licensed to conduct gambling business in Louisiana. The person was Christopher Tanfield, a founder of Worldwide Gaming.
Bally, which is based in Las Vegas, Nev., is also licensed to sell video poker machines and slot machines to Louisiana riverboat casinos. Those licenses are cleared by different regulatory agencies.
Mr. Tanfield, one of 17 people facing Federal charges in the video poker case, offered today to testify before the commission. His lawyer, Patrick Fanning, said Mr. Tanfield would tell what he knew concerning Bally Gaming and the two Louisiana companies.
The commission's chairman, Max Chastain, said Mr. Tanfield's testimony could be raised when Bally's applied for a license to supply equipment to the permanent casino. For now, the commission decided to vote on the evidence already before it.
Bally Gaming is no longer connected with the Bally Entertainment Corporation, a casino operator based in Chicago that spun off the slot-machine unit in 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BYI (NYSE) (96%); CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (62%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (62%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (99%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALLY GAMING INC; HARRAH'S JAZZ CO BALLY TECHNOLOGIES INC (96%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); LOUISIANA COS (62%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALLY GAMING INC; HARRAH'S JAZZ CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA; NEW ORLEANS (LA); UNITED STATES (99%); LOUISIANA, USA (99%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; ORGANIZED CRIME GAMING (93%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); POKER (89%); CASINOS (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); LAWYERS (68%); 

PERSON: WHITMORE, WILMORE ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



41 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Forecaster Of Economy Up Slightly

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
The Government's main economic forecasting gauge rose slightly in December while construction spending ended the year on a high note, possibly a result of the unusually warm weather.
Analysts said there might be mixed signals in the latest Government data issued today by the Commerce Department. But as the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates for the seventh time in a year today, they said the economy appeared headed for a slowdown. 
 The index of leading economic indicators rose a mere one-tenth of a percent in December after climbing three-tenths of a percent the previous month. The index declined one-tenth of a percent in October for only its second drop in 17 months.
The gauge "was basically flat during the fourth quarter, pointing to an early 1995 slowdown," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Company.
The index is aimed at predicting activity six to nine months down the road. Three straight moves in the same direction are considered a good gauge of where the economy is headed.
In another report, the Commerce Department said construction spending increased 1.1 percent in December and rose 8.7 percent for 1994, the biggest gain since an 18.3 percent rise in 1984. Spending on residential, nonresidential and government projects in December totaled $530 billion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate.
But analysts attributed the December gain to warmer-than-normal weather and predicted slower growth ahead.
Adding to the mixed economic signals, the National Association of Purchasing Management reported that the manufacturing sector of the economy grew for the 17th straight month in January and at a slightly faster pace than in December.
 Its purchasing managers index rose to 57.9 percent in January, from a revised 57.5 percent in December. A reading above 50 percent suggests expansion in manufacturing and any figure above 44.5 percent indicates growth in the economy.
 The Federal Reserve, as expected, raised short-term interest rates a half percentage point today. The previous six increases have had only limited impact, but analysts said the full effect of higher rates will be felt this year. The Fed has now raised rates three percentage points in 12 months. Some analysts worry that further increases could send the economy into recession.
The economy grew 4 percent in 1994, its best showing in a decade, and closed out the year by advancing at a robust 4.5 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter. Analysts had predicted the index of leading economic indicators would rise two-tenths of a percent in December.
Six of the 11 components tracked by the gauge rose and four fell. One was unchanged.
The positive components, listed according to their impact, were more unfilled orders for durable goods, rising consumer expectations, more new orders for consumer goods, fewer weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance, increased building permits and slower business delivery times that usually are a sign of rising orders.
The four components that made negative contributions to the index were fewer business orders for plant and equipment, falling stock prices, lower money supply and declining raw material prices.
The average workweek was unchanged.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, from July 1993 through December 1994; "Leading Indicators" tracks index of 11 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity. The latter graph covers the same period as the previous graph. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists components of the indes of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from November to December. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



42 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Copper Hits 2-Month Low In Wake of Rate Increase

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Copper prices tumbled to a two-month low yesterday on fears that the latest increase in interest rates by the Federal Reserve may jeopardize the economic expansion that has been a boon to the market.
On other commodity markets, cotton prices fell sharply, while crude oil rose. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities fell 0.36 point, to 232.42. 
 Copper prices fell to their lowest levels since November as speculative commodity funds pulled out of a market that had risen steadily since October 1993.
On the Commodity Exchange of New York, copper for March delivery fell 4.1 cents, to $1.322 a pound, its lowest close since Nov. 28.
Copper prices fell initially on options-related activity in London and later in New York as speculators liquidated their positions, said Bette Raptopoulos, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
"The interest rate saga, with the Federal Reserve again hiking the Federal funds rate 50 basis points as anticipated, also served to depress the copper market," she said.
The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates by half a percentage point, its seventh increase in 12 months, in an effort to slow economic growth and keep inflation from accelerating.
Copper has led a boom in prices for industrial metals, including nickel, tin, lead and aluminum, as economies in Europe and the United States have recovered. Copper is used in building and by auto makers and other manufacturers. So far, copper consumption has climbed faster than production.
But higher interest rates are expected to damp demand for homes, cars and other big-ticket items. A slowing, combined with a pickup in mining output, could spell an end to the copper rally.
"It may now be that the metals are at a turning point," said Kanak Patel, an economist at Magdelene College at Cambridge University in Britain.
Cotton prices fell sharply in largely technical trading.
March cotton fell 1.37 cents, to 92.10 cents a pound, on the New York Stock Exchange, its second drop after reaching a 14-year high of 94.35 cents a pound on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; CREDIT; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TIN MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); NICKEL MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



43 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Orange County Faces Bond Payment Shortfall

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
Two months after Orange County, Calif., declared bankruptcy, the county has done little to reassure its bondholders that they will get their money back, and bondholders are becoming increasingly restless.
Some $1.2 billion in Orange County bonds, held primarily by individuals and mutual funds, come due from June to August and must be paid back. The county says it has no money to repay those bondholders and, in their eyes, is doing little to change that. 
 Only one proposal has been floated so far, and it is hardly the comprehensive solution that bondholders seek. Some county officials have suggested diverting part of the county sales tax of 7.75 percent that normally goes to the county's general fund and use the money to issue new bonds to pay off the old ones. Such a diversion still faces many legal hurdles and even if approved, might not provide enough money.
Orange County declared bankruptcy last Dec. 6, after sustaining losses in an investment fund that bet interest rates would fall. The losses have amounted to $1.7 billion, and the financial crisis that followed has made it difficult, if not impossible, for the county to repay the investors who bought Orange County bonds in recent years.
As the bonds' repayment dates near, bondholders are becoming worried by statements from county officials. The officials have consistently warned that they will not raise taxes to solve the problem and that bondholders may have to delay getting paid back or take less than what they are owed. Even more troubling, county officials have not ruled out a default on the obligations entirely.
"The county does not have funds now to make all these payments," said Bruce Bennett, the county's bankruptcy lawyer. "It is now exploring every conceivable method of dealing with these bonds without defaulting.
"We are looking at refinancing and at renegotiating with existing bondholders," he added. "The unilateral nonpayment of these bonds, defaulting on them, would be the absolute last resort."
Such talk alarms the world of municipal finance. It undermines the basic tenet on which the municipal bond market is built: that municipal borrowers like Orange County are morally obligated to repay their debts, even if it means cutting services and raising taxes.
Outright defaults are extremely rare in municipal finance and many municipalities with financial problems, like New York City and Philadelphia, solved their problems by raising taxes and taking other hard steps to prevent a default.
Should Orange County default on its outstanding bonds, it would most likely be unable to ever borrow again in the municipal markets. That has been the fate of the handful of other public borrowers that have defaulted on their bond obligations.
What is more, it would make investors think twice about lending to all other municipalities and could force municipal borrowers to pay more to entice investors to lend to them.
No other large municipality has ever declared bankruptcy and none has been as adamant in saying it will not raise taxes to resolve its crisis. The anti-tax stance of the county's board of supervisors has not softened since the crisis began, much to the consternation of bondholders.
"It's atrocious," said Joe Mysak, editor of Grant's Municipal Bond Observer. "Orange County has crossed the line and gone into the unspeakable. It was one thing to declare bankruptcy. But the talk about deferring debt payments takes this into the beyond. It's revolutionary and it will stand municipal finance on its head.
"The idea that a county as wealthy as Orange County is suddenly balking at making debt payments and is being intransigent on raising taxes has really damaged them in the marketplace. They are saying, 'We won't pay.' And the market is going to say, 'Oh, really?' "
David MacEwen, senior municipal portfolio manager at the Benham Group, added: "They might as well be Mexico. The people in Orange County don't feel that this is their problem and they shouldn't pay. The fact that this is a wealthy county doesn't help if you can't tap the wealth. "
Angry bondholders have scheduled a meeting for Feb. 7 in Anaheim, Calif., to air their grievances. The $1.2 billion in debt includes a $600 million short-term note that matures on July 10 and more than $644 million in a number of revenue and property tax anticipation notes that mature in June and July.
Bondholders were particularly troubled by a decision by the county last month to halt payment of $53 million into a special reserve fund used to pay coming bond obligations. That action put many of the county's bond issues into technical default.
"Orange County is waiting for someone else to solve their situation," said James E. Spiotto, a bond lawyer with Chapman & Cutler in Chicago. "They won't raise taxes. They want to share the pain with others and they want to borrow. That's nice, but I'm not sure the world is made that way."
Most troubled municipalities have escaped their problems by converting their short-term debt to long-term debt and coming up with new sources of revenues -- usually new taxes -- to finance the payments on the new debt. The county recently hired Goldman, Sachs & Company and A. G. Edwards & Sons to underwrite any new long-term bonds.
Several factors, however, will make new bond underwritings difficult. First is the amount of borrowing that will be needed -- several hundred million dollars. Second, the county's bonds are now rated as "junk" -- below investment grade -- increasing borrowing costs. And finally, and most importantly, there is the question of how the county will support these new borrowings without new taxes.
"The county is going to have to show it has some sort of earmarked tax against this new debt or it will have problems convincing investors that they will get paid back," said Jane Eddy, an analyst with Standard & Poor's Ratings Group.
The lone proposal afoot is to divert 1 percent or so of the county's sales tax to meet the payments on new bonds. Some estimate that could raise up to $140 million a year to cover the new bond payments. Not only is it unclear whether that would be enough to support new borrowings, but that is also money that would otherwise pay for county services.
"When you live without this revenue source in the budget, it has implications for people's lives," said Karen Kropp, an analyst with Moody's Investors Services. "I'd love to know how the county is going to come up with more funds."
The diversion would come at a time when Orange County is already facing a budget crisis. From now until July, the county faces a shortfall of $172 million in its general fund budget because of its investment losses. In the fiscal year starting next July, the county is expected to come up short by another $154 million.
So far, the county has proposed cuts of only $40 million from its budget, and some modest other cuts have been suggested. County supervisors have said they will seek state approval to lower wages on public projects and cut welfare and health programs.
What about help from the State of California?
Orange County officials have long stated that they will not seek a state bailout. The State Treasurer, Matthew Fong, said he would be inclined to support the sales tax diversion proposal because it did not put state money at risk.
"I'd be concerned that you'd set a precedent that if a local government makes a bad decision, they'll be bailed out by the state," Mr. Fong said. "The state does not want to reward bad performance."


GRAPHIC: Orange County's debt structure is dominated by short-term debt. Graphs shows breakdown of the county's debt. The short-term debt is due from June 30 to Aug. 10, 1995. (Sources: Goldman, Sachs; Standart & Poor's Ratings Group)
Graph: "Securities Coming Due"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; SALES TAX; TAXATION; DEFAULTING BONDS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOAN DEFAULTS (86%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SALES TAX (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



44 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Does raising the minimum wage inevitably mean a loss of jobs?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
BILL CLINTON is maybe, sort of, leaning in favor of an unspecified increase in the minimum wage. Details to be announced, provided the House majority leader, Dick Armey, promises not to sneer . . .
That's not just a cheap shot at a President already lampooned as a waffle. It is also a joke on economists in and outside the Administration who no longer know what to think about the impact of a higher minimum wage on joblessness. 
 Conventional economic theory still argues strongly against using the minimum wage as a weapon to help the working poor. But two widely respected labor economists, David Card and Alan Krueger of Princeton University, contend the numbers support the opposite conclusion. Their forthcoming book, "Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage" (Princeton University Press), is bound to puzzle and irritate policy types who thought this issue was settled long ago.
"It's always worth stirring the pot," said James Heckman, an economist at the University of Chicago. "The big question is whether they'll get anything out of it."
The heretofore solid front against minimum wages is really part of a long-running argument over the virtue of manipulating prices to achieve social objectives.
Farmers in trouble? No problem, explained presidents from F.D.R to George Bush: guarantee them a minimum price for their crops. And if you thought such ideas went out of fashion with the last Congressional election, think again. In one of his first speeches after the victory, House Speaker Newt Gingrich proposed to give the poor a cheaper ride on the information highway by giving them $1,000 discounts on laptop computers.
But messing with market-determined prices, economists respond, distorts incentives to use resources efficiently, thereby reducing the total size of the economic pie. And for decades, the minimum wage has been exhibit No. 1.
In the rich welfare states of northern Europe, where minimum compensation including government-mandated fringes approaches $10 an hour, unemployment seems stuck near double-digit levels. In the United States, the minimum wage has never bitten so sharply. But until recently, there was still nearly unanimous agreement among economists that any increase would cost jobs.
Mr. Card and Mr. Krueger have never been excessively respectful of received wisdom, though. And their own research -- much of it done with Lawrence Katz of Harvard -- has blown gaping holes in the consensus.
In one study summarized in their new book, they compare employment in fast-food restaurants in New Jersey (which raised the minimum wage in 1992) with restaurants across the river in Pennsylvania (which did not). The New Jersey restaurants apparently responded by hiring workers, not dropping them.
This startling result was echoed in other studies by the authors. After the mandated wage increase, one would have expected less growth in employment in New Jersey restaurants that paid the bare minimum than in restaurants that paid considerably more. In fact, they found the opposite. One would have expected the 1990 and 1991 increases in the Federal minimum wage to have led industries using lots of low-cost labor to substitute machines for people. But no such effect is evident in the before-and-after numbers.
The Princeton economists also look at countries where the minimum wage is much closer to the average -- and thus ought to have sharper impact on employment. While they did not come up with anything as startling as the New Jersey numbers, findings for Canada, Puerto Rico and Britain apparently do not support the view that higher wages lead to joblessness.
What could be going on here? Economists assume that the demand for labor falls as the price of labor rises. The only condition under which that iron law is likely to be violated, suggests Daniel Hamermesh of the University of Texas, is where individual employers' actions noticeably influence the going wage. If, for example, an employer is afraid to hire a 10th worker at $5 an hour because he will have to raise the wages of the other nine to match, a rise in the legal minimum wage of $5 would remove the impediment.
The catch, Mr. Hamermesh argues, is that this phenomenon should be short-lived in any reasonably well-behaved labor market. While the local Burger King may be able to pay less for a while, it won't be long before workers will find out about the higher wages offered by the Taco Bell 20 miles down the highway.
So where does that leave economists? Between the rock of new empirical research and the hard place of as-yet-unsullied economic theory. Mr. Hamermesh, for one, is not ready to give up on the traditional belief. "You can't abandon an old idea for no idea," he insists.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (53%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET MINIMUM WAGE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (83%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); WRITERS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); FAST FOOD (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN (PROF); CARD, DAVID (PROF); PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



45 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Owners' Proposal Isn't New, Players Say

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
In a hotel room about a mile from the White House, where its primary occupant is watching them closely, negotiators for baseball's striking players and owners returned to the bargaining table today after a 40-day absence. But they maintained their distance.
The owners made a new payroll-tax proposal that John Harrington, chairman of the negotiating committee, termed a "significant step," only to have the players privately shake their heads and, in the words of one, say, "It doesn't look a whole heck of a lot different." 
 The luxury tax proposal, which was contained in a comprehensive proposal covering noneconomic issues as well, was different in that it included two significant changes from the clubs' previous tax proposals.
But the players nevertheless saw the same kind of problems that were presented by the previous tax plans and the salary cap the owners implemented Dec. 23.
The owners would tax payrolls over $35 million in two tiers: 75 percent for the segment between $35 million and $42 million and 100 percent for the portion beyond $42 million.
Unlike previous plans, the rates would not be adjusted each year until the players' share of industry revenue dropped to 50 percent, but the thresholds would remain fixed at $35 million and $42 million, no matter how high revenues go, meaning the players' share could drop below 50 percent.
Talks resumed under the scrutinizing eye of President Clinton, who has threatened to begin exerting serious outside pressure if the two sides don't reach agreement or at least make substantial progress by Monday.
That pressure would come in the form of a proposal from the mediator, Bill Usery Jr., whom the White House sent into the talks in October, a month after the dispute had forced the World Series to be canceled for the first time in 90 years.
"There was a recognition by both sides," Donald Fehr, the union leader said, "that there is pressure being applied now and if we didn't resolve it, there would be more."
Harrington said: "We hope the President's interest will help keep us focused on the most important thing, and that is to get the game back on the field. Today we believe we honored the spirit of the President's press release the other day."
Fehr, at a news briefing, declined to discuss the new proposal or even characterize it, saying the union wanted to study it before commenting. But one player, who has been closely involved in the negotiations, lamented, "It's going to be a long week."
Previous tax proposals would have assessed the rate of tax on a club's entire payroll; this plan would tax only the part of the payroll that exceeds the first threshold, $35 million. The resulting payment would be less, but the players feel it would still be sufficiently steep to inhibit clubs from exceeding the first threshold and certainly the second, thereby restricting player salaries.
The thresholds would not take effect until the fourth year under a transition plan, but if the plan had been in full effect during an uninterrupted 1994 season, the Detroit Tigers would have paid $20 million in tax on their major league-high $56.8 million payroll. That's far less than the nearly $44 million they would have paid under a previous tax plan, but it still might prompt the Tigers to reduce their payroll.
It also contrasts with the $2.6 million tax the Tigers would pay under the tax plan the union proposed Dec. 22.
The Yankees would have paid $14 million in tax last year on their $50.7 million payroll. The tax assessor would have extracted nothing from the Mets because they had a $34.4 million payroll.
The idea of the transition period is to give the clubs time to reduce their payrolls so that they could avoid taxes completely or at least significantly. The owners disagreed with the players' view that the tax would affect clubs' offers to players.
"I think you'll find X number of clubs budget enough money for payrolls and tax, especially if they want to be in the World Series," Jerry McMorris of the Colorado Rockies said.
McMorris said he believed the plan was "very much different" from previous proposals "because there's not a trigger mechanism that gets you to 50 percent," meaning the share of the clubs' revenues the players would have received under the other plans. "Somebody who wants to spend money can still spend money," he added. "A cap is a cap."
Asked about the clubs' long-stated goal to attain cost certainty through a salary cap, Harrington said: "We have kind of departed from the cost certainty. We're hoping to achieve an objective of cost control."
The money raised by taxes, if anyone winds up paying taxes, would be used for the owners' payment to the players' pension and benefit plan. If taxes don't provide enough money -- payments have been $57 million a year -- the clubs would have to make up the shortfall, Harrington said.
The owners' revenue sharing plan, adopted a year ago contingent on the players' acceptance of a salary cap, would take effect if this proposal, or one negotiated from it, replaced the implemented cap system.
"We made it clear all of the aspects of our proposal are negotiable," Harrington said. "We hope while we're here we will receive a counterproposal from the players."
The players, who went on strike Aug. 12, which ended the 1994 season, conceivably could make a counterproposal based on the same structure as the clubs' plan. But it would be as much to the owners' dislike as this plan is to the players'.
In the new proposal, the clubs changed some of the minimum salaries for the first four years, raising the first year from $115,000 to $125,000, the second from $175,000 to $190,000 and the third from $275,000 to $290,000. The fourth year minimum remained $500,000 or $750,000, depending on a player's rank.
The clubs eliminated the provision that would give players on the disabled list half credit for service time instead of full credit, and they altered the provision that would have allowed them to release a player at any time for any reason, including economic. The new provision would allow a team to release a player for economic reasons only in spring training.
The clubs would still eliminate salary arbitration and provide restricted free agency for players with between four and six years of major league service, but they offered the additional inducement of eliminating repeater restrictions for all free agents.
The owners also went along with some of the ideas the players presented last month, creating an industry growth fund with each side contributing $30 million and giving the players input on such matters as expansion and baseball operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT TIGERS INC (65%); WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STRIKES; LABOR TAX LAW (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



46 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: THE PATAKI BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
PATAKI PROPOSES BROAD REDUCTIONS IN STATE SPENDING

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Taking the first step toward fulfilling his vision for a smaller state government, Gov. George E. Pataki proposed a $ 32.4 billion state budget today that would reduce taxes for almost all New Yorkers and cut spending across the board.
In presenting his budget, Mr. Pataki became the first New York governor since 1943 to call for less spending than in the previous year, proposing a $ 1.1 billion, or 3 percent, reduction. He also proposed income-tax cuts that would total $ 1 billion, the first step in a four-year plan to reduce the top tax rate by one-quarter and save taxpayers $ 6.8 billion a year. The top tax rate this year would fall to 7.59 percent, from 7.87 percent last year. 
 The budget from Mr. Pataki, a Republican, seizes on a projected $ 5 billion gap as an opportunity to refashion government to meet his goals, to make it smaller, to control costs and to put welfare recipients to work.
"Throughout the nation, the American people have demanded spending cuts, tax cuts, government that is more efficient and more effective," he said to an audience of more than 300 legislators, reporters and lobbyists. "The citizens of New York are demanding that their state government join the march."
The proposed cuts include reducing by $ 128 million state appropriations for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has already suffered a $ 113 million cut in aid from New York City. Transit advocates said the additional state cuts would make a 25-cent to 50-cent fare increase for subway and bus riders virtually inevitable this year.
"A fare hike is a tax hike for the more than four million moderate-income and working people who use city subways and buses every workday," said Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a transit riders' group. But M.T.A. officials said it was too early to comment about a fare increase.
Mr. Pataki said he would close the $ 5 billion shortfall, $ 1 billion of which would stem from the tax cuts, in three steps. First, he would reduce spending on welfare and Medicaid, the health program for the disabled and the poor, by $ 1.9 billion.
Second, he would cut spending by state agencies by $ 2.5 billion, eliminating or consolidating programs and reducing the work force by 11,400, a 5 percent cut.
Finally, breaking a campaign pledge to not use "gimmicks" to balance the budget, he would use $ 650 million in nonrecurring, or one-time, revenue measures like borrowing from other funds and selling state property.
Reactions to Mr. Pataki's plan were swift, strong and partisan. The majority leader of the State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, Republican of Brunswick, praised the plan as a declaration of war between liberal spenders and conservative tax-cutters. "This is a budget of job creation and job retention," Mr. Bruno said.
Daniel B. Walsh, president of the Business Council of New York State, called the budget a giant leap toward economic growth.
But an array of advocates for groups that would be affected -- such as welfare recipients and teachers -- attacked Mr. Pataki's budget as potentially devastating to essential services. The advocates said, for example, that the cuts would lead to $ 1,000-a-year tuition increases at the state and city universities.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, Democrat of Manhattan, who will lead the legislative fight to hold back the cuts, called Mr. Pataki a "negative Robin Hood" who was seeking to finance tax cuts for the wealthy on the backs of the middle class and the elderly.
Cindy B. Green, vice president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group financed by businesses, lauded Mr. Pataki for "bringing under control what had previously been uncontrolled expenditures." But she warned that the tax-cut plan, which would cost $ 700 million this year and grow to $ 6.8 billion a year by 1998, is likely to lead to budget shortfalls.
"They are backloaded," Ms. Green said of the proposed cuts. "They balloon. We have a lot of concern about whether this all leads to truly balanced budgets down the line."
Besides reducing the top rate, the tax-cut plan would increase the deduction for married couples this year from $ 9,500 to $ 10,800. In addition, families earning less than $ 25,296 a year could begin claiming an earned-income tax credit worth 10 percent of a similar Federal credit.
The spending cuts would be spread so widely across the landscape of state government that they would be likely to touch most New Yorkers in ways large and small. The cuts would affect virtually every agency and every region.
Welfare stipends for more than one million people would be reduced. Scores of road and bridge repairs would be canceled or delayed. Prisoners in maximum-security prisons would double up in cells, and sports stadiums on Long Island and in upstate towns would not be built.
Mr. Pataki also suggested several cuts that although relatively small were rich in symbolism. He would sell the $ 675,000 mansion that the State Education Commissioner occupies. The present occupant, Thomas Sobol, is planning to retire because of conflicts with Mr. Pataki.
The Governor would also cut 300 administrators from the Education Department. He would sell the governor's airplane, which he said his predecessor, Mario M. Cuomo, used to excess.
Another feature would eliminate $ 48 million in "member's items," which lawmakers traditionally use to promote certain organizations in their districts.
The $ 32.4 billion budget for the fiscal year beginning on April 1 represents the amount of money to be raised from state taxes and fees. When Federal funds are added, mostly for welfare and Medicaid, the budget grows to $ 62.6 billion. The combined budget proposed by Mr. Pataki, known as the all-funds budget, is $ 415 million, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, larger than the current all-funds budget.
Although no governor since World War II has proposed spending less than in the previous year, the Legislature in late 1990 had to enact midyear cuts because of the recession that caused spending to fall below 1989 levels.
In closing a $ 5 billion shortfall, Mr. Pataki would pay for $ 1 billion in income-tax cuts and bring down costs $ 4 billion from where they would be projected to rise because of the growth of government.
The Governor said the shortfall was mainly a result of the rapid growth of Medicaid, mental health and other social programs, as well as growing interest payments on debt. He also said the Legislature and Mr. Cuomo, just before the elections in November, enacted $ 1.1 billion in construction and education programs that the state could not afford.
Making a point of trying to eliminate many of those programs, Mr. Pataki said he would, for example, cut $ 97 million for sports stadiums, including a $ 24 million swimming pool in Nassau County. And he called for ending a $ 50 million scholarship program championed by Mr. Cuomo.
To reduce the work force by 11,400, Mr. Pataki said he hoped that up to 6,000 positions could be eliminated through attrition. Most of the remaining jobs could be cut through buyouts, he said.
But he held out the possibility that he would have to lay off up to 6,900 workers if the buyout program was not approved by the Legislature or by unions, which would finance the program through contract givebacks.
As another measure to close the gap, Mr. Pataki resurrected an old Cuomo proposal, a keno lottery game that he said could generate $ 115 million a year. Mr. Silver called that figure unrealistically high.
Officials from the state and city universities said the plans to cut money for higher education, $ 290 million for the State University of New York and $ 158 million for the City University of New York, would lead to higher tuitions, larger classes and faculty layoffs.
"It presents budgetary problems of historic proportions for the State University," said the SUNY Chancellor, Dr. Thomas A. Bartlett.
The $ 650 million in nonrecurring revenues that Mr. Pataki would use to close the gap include $ 220 million from an M.T.A. surplus account, $ 63 million from a settlement to clean up the Love Canal near Niagara Falls and $ 110 million from a special fund to augment pension payments for retired state workers.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, a Democrat, said he would sue to block the use of the pension money, calling it a gimmick.
Among the social-service cuts, Mr. Pataki would reduce Medicaid spending $ 1.2 billion by trimming payments to health-care providers, mandating managed care and sharply reducing services to elderly people at home. He also called for cutting services for the mentally ill, mentally retarded and drug and alcohol addicts.
To save on the costs of prison guards, the Governor said he would require maximum-security prisoners to be placed two to a cell, an idea that advocates for inmates said would lead to increasing violence.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki and Budget Director Patricia A. Woodworth at the delivery of the budget speech yesterday in Albany. (David Jennings for The New York Times); Mr. Pataki listening to Assemblyman Edward C. Sullivan of Manhattan complain that Democrats had not received copies of the budget. The Governor waited a few minutes for copies to arrive before speaking. (Associated Press) (pg. B6)
 
Charts: "Closing the Gap"
 How Gov. George E. Pataki plans to close a projected gap of $ 5 billion.
 
MEDICAID
 $ 1.2 billion in cuts to state programs.
 
WELFARE
 $ 343 million in cuts to state programs.
 
HIGHER EDUCATION
 $ 448 million in cuts at SUNY and CUNY.
 
STATE GOVERNMENT
 $ 2.4 billion reduction in state government, including cuts at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and trims in the state work force.
 
REVENUE ADJUSTMENT
 $ 650 million in one-shot revenues, including borrowing from other state funds and selling state property.
 
(pg. A1)
 
"THE DETAILS: Pataki's Tax-Cutting Plan" shows details of Gov. George Pataki's four year plan to reduce taxes. (Source: Pataki Administration; effects of tax cut calculated by Price Waterhouse) (pg. B6)
 
"CLOSE-UP: Pataki's Cuts Big and Small: A Sampler"
 Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget reduces government at all levels. Mr. Pataki contends that overall, New Yorkers would benefit because income tax cuts and a smaller government would lead to a healthier economy. But individually, services to people and communities would be cut in myriad ways. IAN FISHER
 
Cut financing for baseball stadiums in Rochester, Syracuse, Batavia, Elmira, Jamestown, Oneonta and Utica.
 
Cut the Nassau County swimming complex.
 
Cut the Mitchell Park soccer stadium in Nassau County.
 
Cut the Schenectady Tennis Center.
 
Cut the Rochester War Memorial Arena.
 
Cut the Newburgh Football Stadium.
 
Sell the state-owned mansion of Education Commissioner in Loudonville, N.Y.
 
Sell G1, the double-engine airplane used by the Governor.
 
Cut aid to the State University of New York.
 
Cut aid to the City University of New York.
 
Close 6 of the state's 13 residential alcohol rehabilitation centers, a total of 276 beds. The centers, all in psychiatric hospitals, are:
-- R.E. Blaisdell in Rockland County.
-- the Bronx Alcoholism Treatment Center.
-- Creedmoor in Queens.
-- Dick Van Dyke Center in Seneca County.
-- the Manhattan Alcoholism Treatment Center.
 
Close early two psychiatric centers: Willard Psychiatric Center in Ovid, which has 140 beds, and the Manhattan Children's Psychiatric Center in Manhattan, which has 50 beds.
 
Eliminate $ 48 million in "member items," money pet projects in lawmakers' districts.
 
Put two people in a prison cell designed for one person, avoiding the need for more cells and costing 1,980 corrections officers their jobs.
 
Abolish the state Energy Office.
 
Abolish the Law Review Commission.
 
Abolish the Commission on Cable Television.
 
Abolish the local Alcoholic Beverage Control Boards.
 
Limit to 90 days home relief for single adults without children who are considered employable.
 
Eliminate a $ 50 a month allowance for pregnant women on welfare.
 
Eliminate at-home care for people, mostly the elderly, who only need only services like shopping, housekeeping or cooking, if such a cut would not result in a person's going to a nursing home. Limit all other care at 25 hours a week.
 
(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (54%); MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WELFARE (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); BASEBALL (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); CITIES (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



47 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Congress Limits Federal Orders Costly to States

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
The House of Representatives brought a prolonged debate to its foregone conclusion today and overwhelmingly passed legislation making it harder for Congress to impose new requirements on the states and cities without providing Federal money to pay for them.
The legislation, which passed the Senate in similar form last week and has President Clinton's endorsement, is the first major step in what the new Republican majority in Congress is promising will be a steady shift of power from Washington back to the local governments. 
 "This is really the first debate we have had on the New Federalism," said Representative William F. Clinger, Republican of Pennsylvania, as the debate ended. It had consumed most of three weeks, including several nights when the House worked past midnight as Republicans fought off Democratic amendments. The bill was finally passed in a bipartisan vote of 360 to 74.
It was the second piece of the Republicans' campaign manifesto, the Contract With America, to have been approved by both chambers of Congress, each winning bipartisan support. President Clinton has already signed the first, which eliminated Congress's exemption from 11 Federal labor laws.
But the third such proposal to pass the House, which would amend the Constitution to require a balanced Federal budget, is far from the day of decision in the Senate, where debate continued inconclusively today.
In the House, Democrats argued today until the very end that the bill limiting what are known as "unfunded mandates" was misguided, and that it would result in loosening environmental and other protections. But more than 60 members of their own party consistently sided with the Republicans, and in the end most Democrats voted for the bill, which is widely popular among governors and mayors.
Representative Cardiss Collins, Democrat of Illinois, said the Republicans' consistent refusal to exempt environmental and other laws from the new restrictions "reveals a mean-spirited effort to abandon those who are most in need."
In fact, the measure does not prohibit the Federal Government from imposing new requirements on states and cities. But it does require Congress to study the costs of most such laws, and to find ways to pay those costs -- or to decide in a separate vote to waive that requirement.
Although there are a few minor differences between what the House passed today and what the Senate passed last week, they are expected to be easily resolved and the bill will then go to President Clinton. It will not take effect until later this year, and does not reverse any mandates imposed on the states by past legislation.
But it is likely to be felt right away by Congressional committees that are only now beginning to work on substantive legislation on pollution and other issues. They will be discouraged from drafting anything that contains unfinanced requirements, since by the time these bills come to the floor late this year there will be new procedural barriers to proposing them.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said the action on the three pieces of the Contract With America "shows that we are on schedule," even though debate on the bill on unfinanced requirements took longer than Republican leaders had expected.
"In order to make big changes, you have to work hard," Mr. Armey said. Republican leaders have promised to vote on the entire 10-point manifesto in the first 100 days of the new Congress.
On Thursday, the House plans to take up the next part of the program: a measure giving the President the right to selectively veto individual programs established by Congress without having to veto entire bills.
Several other bills backed by Republicans are working their way through committees.
In the Senate, a Judiciary subcommittee approved a proposed constitutional amendment to impose term limits on members of Congress. Senators would be barred from serving more than two full six-year terms and House members would be barred from serving more than six full two-year terms.
In the House, meanwhile, the Judiciary Committee approved a bill to provide states with $10.5 billion for prison construction -- $2.5 billion more than in last year's crime bill. Half the money would go to states that do not release violent criminals from prison before they have served at least 85 percent of the imposed sentences. The other half would go to states that have increased the imprisonment of violent criminals.
As the Senate debated the proposed Constitutional amendment on a balanced budget, with Democrats calling for a detailed explanation of how that would be achieved, a House committee examined tax cuts favored by Republicans.
The House Ways and Means Committee issued a new estimate showing that the tax provisions of the Contract With America would reduce Government revenue by $196.3 billion over the next five years. The projection, prepared by the staff of the Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation, is similar to one published last fall by the Republican staff of the House Budget Committee.
The most costly item, the new figures showed, would be the proposal for a $500-per-child tax credit, which would reduce revenue by $117.5 billion over the period. Various reductions proposed in capital gains taxes would result in the loss of $48.7 billion.
The capital gains estimate was made in the traditional fashion rather than under a new method favored by some Republicans that would take account of what they think would be overall economic improvement resulting from a lower capital gains tax.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee, promised that all tax reductions would be offset by reduced spending, but he did not identify what spending cuts he was talking about.


GRAPHIC: The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, a bipartisan body created by Congress in 1959 to monitor Federal-state relations, says there is no way to calculate exactly what costs the Government has pushed on to states and localities. But the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the cumulative cost of Federal regulations that localities must pay for between 1983 and 1990 is between $8.9 billion and $12.7 billion.
Chart: "FOR EXAMPLE: Burdens on States and Cities"
Here are some examples of such "unfunded mandates." The new legislation that has passed the Senate and the House would apply only to new laws and does not change the obligations of state and local governments under existing requirements.
 
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1991 -- Requires employers to provide family and medical leave to their employees. As employers, state and local governments are responsible for any costs associated with providing the leave.
 
Handgun Violence Protection Act of 1993 (Brady Bill) -- Requires a five business-day waiting period and background check before a person can buy a handgun. Costs are incurred by the tracking, checking and record-keeping requirements.
 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 -- Directs states to implement a variety of programs to make it easier for states to register voters. States are required to allow mail-in voter registration and to provide registration forms at a variety of state offices including motor vehicle offices and welfare offices.
 
Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act of 1986 -- Requires local school systems to inspect for and remove hazardous asbestos materials from school buildings.
 
Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986 -- Sets standards and timetables for removing contaminants from tap water; requires states to monitor their groundwater supplies, and tightens enforcement and penalties for water systems that do not comply.
 
Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 -- Imposes strict deadlines and requirements dealing with urban smog, municipal incinerators and toxic emissions.
 
(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US) LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (52%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



48 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
TOUGH TIMES AHEAD FOR MEXICO
Mexico turned to the task of rebuilding its economy as officials warned of a long year ahead of austerity, disappointment and anger. A1
 

AID TO MEXICO IS QUESTIONED
News analysis: If Washington won't bail out Orange County, why should American taxpayers risk billions on helping Mexico? A12
 
BAILOUT MAY NOT PROVE DURABLE
President Clinton's move to order emergency credits to Mexico halted a run on the peso, but it left analysts worrying that the bailout's success will prove temporary. A12
 
DUTCH FEAR DAMS WON'T HOLD
Flood waters reached a new peak in the Netherlands, and specialists said they are not sure whether the dikes and dams that protect the country will hold or crumble under the pressure. A1
 
SWEDEN FACES SOCIAL CUTS
Sweden is being forced to pare back its generous social welfare systems, creating widespread anxiety that the system could collapse under its own weight. A1
 
EGYPTIAN CRITICIZES ISRAEL
Egypt's Foreign Minister said Israel's failure to abide by the peace agreement had led to an increase in Palestinian violence. A5
 
JAILED ALGERIAN ISSUES WARNING
A jailed opposition leader warned that holding a presidential election this year could cause even more violence between Muslim militants and the army. A6
 
U.S. ACCUSES RUSSIA ON RIGHTS
The U.S. accused Russia of human rights abuses, saying Moscow violated international agreements when it sent troops into Chechnya to attack civilians. A8
 
Russian troops bombarded Chechen town packed with refugees. A7
 
Archeologists say they've found the tomb of Alexander the Great. A3
 
Prospects for talks on Northern Ireland hit another snag. A10
 
The U.S. starts evacuating Cuban refugees from Panama. A11
 
New Delhi Journal: The jewels of Nizam now belong to all India. A4
 
National A14-21, B8-10
 
INTEREST RATES RISE AGAIN
The Federal Reserve pushed up short-term interest rates for the seventh time since last February. The action prompted banks to follow suit, causing borrowing costs to rise for millions of Americans. A1
 
LIMITING COSTS TO STATES
The House overwhelmingly approved a bill to make it harder for Congress to impose requirements on states and cities without providing the money to pay for them. A1
 
GEPHARDT'S 'CODE OF CONDUCT'
The minority leader in the House, Richard Gephardt, unveiled a strategy for businesses that focuses on middle-income workers, unions and the minimum wage. B9
 
A memo outlines the Republicans' strategy on the budget. B8
 
RAISING FUNDS FOR CAMPAIGN '96
Republicans who may seek their party's Presidential nomination in 1996 are busily enlisting political hands with proven records of raising money. A1
 
WILL SPRING BOON GO BUST?
As the major league baseball strike drags on, Florida cities like Fort Myers worry about the collapse of their spring season economy. A14
 
HARD TIMES AHEAD IN WASHINGTON
Preparing residents for big reductions in services and new layoffs, Mayor Marion Barry said the nation's capital was in worse financial shape than it had ever been. A14
 
WASTE AGREEMENT OVERTURNED
Members of the Mescalero Apache tribe overturned a deal in which tribal leaders had agreed to let 33 utility companies store radioactive waste on their reservation. A16
 
TESTIMONY IN SIMPSON TRIAL
A man who said he was a longtime friend of O. J. Simpson testified that Mr. Simpson told of dreaming about killing his former wife. A18
 
SUPPRESSING THE AIDS VIRUS
A new combination of drugs seems to suppress the AIDS virus more effectively than existing combinations of drugs, four American and European studies say. A20
 
SCHOOLS IN UNSAFE CONDITIONS
One third of the nation's 80,000 public schools are in poor repair and in unsuitable conditions for children, a report to Congress estimated. A21
 
The blastoff of the space shuttle Discovery was delayed. A20
 
A Federal advisory report recommended nuclear lab cutbacks. A20
 
A study shows declining sperm counts among fertile men. A19
 
Scientists released findings into the cause of Type II diabetes. A21
 
Metro Digest B1
 
STATE BUDGET WOULD CUT TAXES
Governor Pataki proposed a $32.4 billion budget that would reduce taxes for most New Yorkers and cut spending in almost every state agency in almost every region. A1
 
OFFICERS UNDER INVESTIGATION
The Police Department is investigating 20 officers in the 48th Precinct in the Bronx suspected of beating suspects, dealing narcotics and stealing from drug dealers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Dignity on Sarajevo stage. C13
Streisand produces a nonfiction
drama about a quiet woman. C13
 
Theater: "Missing Persons." C13
 
Music: Roots of the modern traced to the Baroque. C13
 
The Pop Life C16
 
Opening the avante-garde. C20
 
Dance: Stephen Petronio. C16
 
Books: New P. D. James. C17
 
Sports B12-19
 
Baseball: Owners make new offer. B13
 
Dreams for would-be Mets. B16
 
Basketball: Villanova tops St. John's. B13
 
3-pointers key for Knicks. B15
 
Nets rout Bucks. B15
 
Columns: Araton on Pierce B13
 
Golf: Drenching prelude to AT&T event. B16
 
Hockey: Penguins (6-0) top Rangers. B13
 
Track and Field: Pressures for Algerian woman. B13
 
The Home Section C1-11
 
At work with Evelyn Lauder: From pink lipstick to pink ribbons. C1
 
Talking out troubles at school. C1
 
Obituaries B10-11
 
George Abbott, "Mr. Broadway," a director, actor and producer. B10
 
Francois Boutin, renowned horse trainer in Europe. B11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
Cut, but be fair to the city.
 
Foreign aid, in moderation.
 
Mister Abbott.
 
Madness in a Long Island court.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: Closet clout.
 
William Safire: Singapoverty.
 
Amy Knight: The real winner in Chechnya -- the K.G.B.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle D20
 
Bridge C17
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (58%); FORT MYERS MIRACLE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ARMIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); LEGISLATION (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); BASEBALL (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



49 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: THE OVERVIEW;
Aid for Mexico Gives Economy Shot in the Arm

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 1

 BODY:
One day after President Clinton's rescue plan brought a respite from its financial crisis, Mexico turned today to the task of rebuilding its shattered economy as officials and economists warned of a long year ahead of austerity, disappointment and anger.
The $50 billion international package of loans and loan guarantees announced in Washington on Tuesday brought a temporary euphoria to the markets and the business community, which the newspapers were terming the "Clinton effect." 
 The peso rose a bit more today, closing at 5.37 to the dollar, about a 7 percent increase over Tuesday's rate. Interest rates on the 28-day Government treasury certificate fell to 32.57 percent, more than 4 percentage points below last week's rates, another sign the financial situation was stabilizing.
But in Washington, critics in Congress and even some supporters worried whether the bailout would lead to any long-term progress in Mexico's economy. [News analysis, page A12.]
While the package assembled in Washington could go a long way toward resolving Mexico's immediate crisis, analysts noted that the nation still faces serious economic and political problems that threaten its long-term stability, with many implications for the United States.
"In the short term we may have left behind the chaos," said Guadalupe Loaeza, a writer in Mexico City who has led marches to the doors of the Mexican White House condemning the Government's economic policies. "But we are facing a year in which we will have to confront a sad reality, that we are a very poor country with many problems."
Financial analysts said that in spite of the new financial backing, many foreign investors remain wary of putting their money in Mexico, which still has $23 billion in debt due this year.
There are indications that Mexico may be sliding toward an unavoidable recession. Many analysts also said President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon's plan to limit price and wage increases, originally triggered by a loss of one-third of the peso's value, has become harder to manage after six weeks of financial instability.
President Zedillo told Mexicans on Tuesday that the assistance in no way implies a lessening of the discipline required to get the economy back on track. But workers, business executives and just about everyone else here are growing angrier by the day that the battered peso, despite recent gains, still cannot buy anywhere near what it bought before the crisis began.
In a sign of potential problems, 4,000 workers stayed off the job for a second day at a Thomson Consumer Electronics Company plant across the border from El Paso, complaining that they cannot survive on salaries diminished by the weakened peso.
On Wall Street, analysts expressed doubts about Mexico's commitment to control spending, limit the amount of money it prints, or reject the kind of unfettered borrowing seen as leading to inflation, instability and the current debt crisis.
"The Mexican Government now has to re-establish a track record," said Chip Brown, an economist at Morgan Stanley & Company in New York.
President Zedillo, in office two months today, also faces pressing political problems, political commentators said. Among the most pressing are unruly factions of his own party, a still unresolved guerrilla uprising in Chiapas and five state elections in 1995 that his party stands a good chance of losing.
"Mexico right now is in a clearing," said Neal M. Soss, an economist in New York. "But it's a wide enough clearing so that no one can be sure if there's more woods on the other side."
There were several other signs of stability in the markets, although analysts said the decline in interest rates on the Government treasury certificates was significant because they are important indicators of trends on interest rates for consumer and business loans.
Not every economic indicator was favorable, but even a 4.6 percent drop in stock prices was seen as a sign of normalcy, because investors were simply selling off securities for quick profits after a 10 percent market rebound on Tuesday. Analysts also said some investors were selling stock to buy Government bonds.
"What happened today on the market is not worrisome at all," said Pablo Riveroll, director of analysis at Bursamex, a Mexico City brokerage firm. "When markets move so much, it's only normal that people are there to take profits."
Mexico plans to use the $50 billion pledged by the United States and other countries to help pay its debts until it can refinance existing obligations. Mexican officials said that in the next week or so, they will offer longer-term bonds, backed by the new American credits.
Finance Minister Guillermo Ortiz said the amount of outstanding Government bonds has been reduced from $29 billion to $23.5 billion, about half of which is held by foreigners, many of them Americans.
"It's going to be a very difficult year," said Raul Munoz Leos, president of Du Pont of Mexico. "The fact that we won't have an economy that is growing is bad for business so we'll have to look for export opportunities."
As part of its recovery plan, Mexico said it would reduce by more than half the existing $30 billion deficit that resulted from importing far more than it exported in 1994. If it is successful,
Mexican officials are relying on the devalued peso to make Mexican exports cheaper and imports from other countries, including the United States, more expensive. But economists said such hopes would come undone if Mexico fails to control inflation. By pushing up the price of Mexican labor and other costs, inflation pushes up the price of Mexican exports.
As part of its anti-inflation program, the Government signed a pact with labor and business on Jan. 3 to control wages and prices. But since then price increases have been routinely exceeding targets. And while labor originally agreed to wage limits, workers are increasingly unhappy.
One example is the Thomson plant, in Ciudad Juarez. Workers walked off the job Tuesday afternoon, complaining that the peso's problems had cut deeply into their salaries. The Mexican Department of Labor sent negotiators to the plant today to meet with the local union and state officials.
Most of Mexico's emergency economic measures are laid out in a memorandum of economic policies that Mexico signed with the International Monetary Fund, which is lending Mexico $17.8 billion.
In the memorandum, Mexico agrees to limit any increases in internal credit in 1995 to 10 billion pesos, or about $2 billion at the current exchange rate. The Government agrees to try to stabilize the peso at 4.50 to the dollar, and to keep inflation below 19 percent.
All those goals will be difficult to reach, said Mr. Soss, the economist, especially if there are any shocks in the coming months like the assassinations or political turmoil that Mexico experienced in 1994.
"For at least the next year," Mr. Soss said, "Mexico will have to keep a low profile."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers from a Thomson Electronics plant in Ciudad Juarez have walked off their jobs, saying the peso's problems have effectively reduced their salaries. They blocked a road in front of the factory yesterday. (Javier Aguilar/Diario de Juarez); A temporary euphoria over President Clinton's economic bailout package dominated the headlines yesterday in Mexico City. (Associated Press) (pg. A12)
 
Graphs: "Looking Better" shows average performance of mutual funds that invest primarily in Latin America, since Dec. 31. (Source: Morningstar Inc.); "A Slight Rebound" compares pesos to the dollar, and shows how the peso declined in value. (Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial News) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (60%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (60%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (60%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: TECHNICOLOR SA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES; FORECASTS; INTEREST RATES ; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CREDIT; LABOR; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ELECTRONICS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



50 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: A Deficit Reins In Sweden's Welfare State

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM

 BODY:
In the last six decades, Sweden has built one of the world's most generous and successful social welfare systems, providing its citizens with a lifelong array of benefits that help them maintain a high standard of living through good times and bad.
But now, unable to afford the bill, the country is being forced to pare social welfare spending. Although the cuts have so far hardly been Draconian, there is widespread anxiety that the system, long seen as the model for combining socialist welfare policies with vibrant capitalism, could collapse under its own economic weight. 
 The strains are already beginning to show. Despite Sweden's commitment to universally available child care, local authorities in some areas have had to reduce spending on subsidized day-care centers.
In the last few years, reductions have been made in unemployment insurance and in payments to workers injured on the job. Among a number of proposals likely to be enacted in coming months is a $ 17 reduction in the $ 100 monthly payment provided to every family for each child regardless of need.
Nearly every industrialized country is seeking to overhaul its social welfare system. As in the United States, the issue is moving to the political forefront across Western Europe, where the high costs of maintaining generous benefits are increasingly seen as a drag on the economy.
But no major Western nation faces financial pressure as intense as that of Sweden, where citizens remain downright coddled by American standards. Still, it is particularly unsettling to many Swedes that the most recently proposed cuts, the deepest so far, are being carried out under the party that built the system, the leftist Social Democrats.
The party, the dominant political force since the 1930's, regained power in elections last fall after three years in opposition, in part because voters felt that the conservative Government had gone too far in dismantling Sweden's liberal system.
"We are just nine million people, and we should be able to take care of each other," said Annelie Drevstam, an assistant at a Stockholm photo agency. "It's a new problem for Sweden that we have people living on the streets, and if I have to pay more in taxes or get less child allowance to help, I'm willing to do it."
Yet Sweden already imposes one of the world's heaviest tax burdens to pay for its social largess, with total Government receipts in 1993 amounting to 58.3 percent of gross domestic product, compared with 31.1 percent in the United States.
As a result some Swedes, including Ms. Drevstam's husband, Mika Laitanen, say their commitment to social welfare has its limits.
Since the family is hoping to buy a house, Mr. Laitanen would like to see the Government do more to bring interest rates down, maybe even at the expense of cutting welfare, and he supports the tax-cutting philosophy of the conservatives.
"I would rather decide what I do with my money," said Mr. Laitanen, an electrician for the Swedish military.
The Swedish system provides, among other benefits, a guarantee of close to a full income indefinitely in cases of sickness and unemployment. It covers medical care and subsidizes educational costs, sets minimum retirement income and provides paid leaves of absence for new parents.
But faced with one of the developed world's worst budget deficits and plagued by a stubbornly high unemployment rate of 13 percent, Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson has had little choice but to push for spending cuts.
In January the Government proposed a four-year, $ 15 billion program of spending cuts and tax increases, by far the biggest austerity package in the country's history, in an effort to stop the growth in the deficit and to bring down punishingly high interest rates.
The deficit surged from 7.4 percent of gross domestic product in 1992 to 13.5 percent in 1993. Although it dropped slightly by some measures last year, it remains more than three times as high as the average ratio of 3.8 percent for the world's largest industrial countries.
Mr. Carlsson said he was confident of getting his package through Parliament, despite complaints from the left that the cuts were too deep and from the right that he was relying too much on tax increases. By 1997, he said, the deficit should be down to around 7 percent of gross domestic product.
Mr. Carlsson said his plan would bring financial stability to Sweden without forcing any wholesale changes in a system that extends far beyond providing a safety net for people who need help to recover from misfortune.
Under Mr. Carlsson's plan, for example, Swedish women would continue to be encouraged to take a year off from work after the birth of a child, but they would be paid 75 percent of their former salary for the year, down from 80 percent.
"We're trimming the system, not dismantling it," Mr. Carlsson said in an interview. "It's very clear to me as a Social Democrat that if we want a social welfare system, we have to have the income to pay for it. The condition for this is to strengthen the Swedish economy, and that's exactly what we are doing now."
The slimming of the welfare state began under the previous, conservative Government, led by Carl Bildt. In three stormy years as Prime Minister, he sought to impose a Thatcherite revolution on Sweden by cutting taxes, introducing free-market economic policies and asserting the need for more individual responsibility.
But Mr. Bildt's tenure coincided with the worst recession in Sweden since the 1930's. The jobless rate went from almost nothing in 1991 to 13 percent last year.
With the economy foundering and unemployment benefits and other welfare payments surging, Mr. Bildt's tax cuts led to a rising deficit. The problem was compounded when he was unable to find consensus in his coalition Government for large-scale spending cuts.
Mr. Carlsson's budget strategy has set off protests from some of those affected, including several thousand students who marched in Stockholm in January to protest cuts in their grants.
Many business executives and economists contend that the Government has been too timid in its cuts, though.
"In our view the proposed measures will not be sufficient, either in scope or direction, to achieve the necessary correction in state finances or the growth for which the Government is striving," the chairmen of eight of Sweden's largest companies -- including Volvo, Electrolux and the technology giant Ericsson -- said in a letter to Mr. Carlsson.
Some analysts say that rather than snip around the edges of the benefit programs, the Government needs to engage in a wholesale reassessment of Sweden's priorities.
"Inevitably, the debt burden will force Swedes to make large-scale modifications to their public benefit programs and accept slower growth in their standard of living," said a report from Moody's Investors Service, which analyzes the financial condition of countries and companies.
The need for a shift in public policy, Moody's said, "has not yet been accepted widely by the full population."
Sitting around their kitchen table in Skarpnack, a Stockholm suburb, Barry Andersson and his wife, Majvor Hansson, said the change that would be most widely felt -- the $ 17-a-month reduction in child benefit payments -- would not dent their comfortable middle-class life, even though they had two children.
"It's only because we've had such good times in Sweden that these small problems sometimes seem very big," Ms. Hansson said.
Mr. Andersson, a chimney sweep, and Ms. Hansson, who works in a psychiatric clinic, said they were confident that the Social Democrats would try to keep the social welfare system intact. They expressed a vague unease that Sweden might be lurching toward much bigger changes, but they made clear that they still expected a lot from their Government.
Mr. Andersson said he wished the Government would do more to reduce unemployment. Ms. Hansson said she wished the Government would come up with a program so that someone who was unemployed could take her job and she could take a year or two off -- with pay.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State cuts in Sweden coincide with a leap in the jobless rate to 13 percent. Women hunted for work at a job center in Stockholm. (Charlie Dreustam for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN; SWEDEN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES EMPLOYMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W INGVAR CARLSSON (67%); MIKA LAITANEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



51 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL RESERVE RAISES ITS RATES 7TH TIME IN A YEAR

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve pushed up short-term interest rates today for the seventh time since last February, when it set out to tighten credit and smother any resurgence of inflation.
The Federal Reserve increased by a half-point two important short-term lending rates it controls, placing its key lever over the economy at 6 percent, double the level of a year ago. 
 The action prompted major banks to follow suit immediately, causing borrowing costs to rise for millions of Americans. Banks raised their prime lending rates, which serve as a benchmark for various consumer and business loans, by a similar one-half point, to 9 percent. A year ago, the prime rate at most banks was 6 percent.
Many home equity and credit card loans are tied to the prime, as are certain business loans, especially for small- and medium-sized companies. Adjustable-rate mortgages, which are affected by changes in short-term rates, are also likely to go up.
The Federal Reserve acted, it said, because its yearlong effort to restrain the economy by raising interest rates had so far produced only tentative signs of a moderation in growth. While it usually takes at least six to nine months for any rate increase to work its way through the economy, Federal Reserve officials have repeatedly expressed surprise at the strength of the economy over the year. Worried that unrestrained growth may set off another wave of inflation, they have lifted rates in a step-by-step fashion in hopes of slowing the economy without killing off the expansion.
The Clinton Administration once again declined to criticize the Federal Reserve for raising rates. But various business officials and members of Congress of both parties lashed out at the largely independent agency, saying it was unnecessarily risking overkill that could bring on a recession.
"We're getting to the point where we're going to push this economy right over the brink," said Martin A. Regalia, chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat, said in a speech on the floor of the Senate that officials bankers at the Federal Reserve "ought to have their collective heads examined" for tilting so hard at "imaginary" inflation.
But House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Republican, defended the Federal Reserve's action as necessary to minimize inflation and protect the value of the dollar. "We don't want to go back to having the kind of inflation we had in the late 70's," Mr. Gingrich told reporters.
Financial markets, getting the half-point increase that was generally expected, took the move largely in stride. Bond prices and the dollar weakened somewhat as traders moved to take some of their profits and the stock market shed most of its early gains.
There are some signs that the economy is finally beginning to respond to the credit tightening, but the central bank, private analysts said, seemed to leave open the possibility of at least one more increase, perhaps in May. The timing of any further rate increase, if it comes, is likely to depend on how soon a slowdown in the economy becomes unmistakably clear. In a statement today, the Federal Reserve noted that indicators of inflationary pressure -- like low unemployment rates and factories operating at close to their limits -- remained at potentially dangerous levels.
In its statement, the Federal Reserve said that "despite tentative signs of some moderation in growth, economic activity has continued to advance at a substantial pace while resource utilization has risen further. In these circumstances, the Federal Reserve views these actions as necessary to keep inflation contained and thereby foster sustainable economic growth."
The board of governors voted to raise the discount rate, a mostly symbolic rate used for emergency borrowing by banks, to 5 1/4 percent from 4 3/4 percent. The vote was 7 to 0, meaning that both Clinton appointees concurred.
More importantly, the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee agreed that this rise should be fully reflected in the rate banks pay when they borrow from each other for very short periods. This rate, known as the Federal funds rate, climbed to 6 percent from 5 1/2 percent, leaving it exactly double what it was a year ago.
Echoing the Federal Reserve, the Minneapolis-based Norwest bank led the parade of banks that raised the prime rate, followed by Chase Manhattan, Citicorp, BankAmerica and others.
While many politicians and business people lamented the continued rise in rates, which is just beginning to take a toll on housing and on the auto industry, economists tended to side with the Federal Reserve in their assessment of the economy and the inflation risks it posed.
"They responded to the fact that the economy is growing too fast for its own good," said John R. Williams, chief economist at the Bankers Trust Company. "My guess is that there's one more tightening yet to come."
The Clinton Administration's response came in a joint statement by Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
"The Administration respects the independence of the Federal Reserve and neither endorses nor criticizes its actions," the statement said.
The Federal Reserve's task, as it sees it, is to bring the economy's growth rate, which was at a 4 1/2 percent annual pace in the final three months of 1994, down to the 2 1/2 percent or so that can be sustained without putting upward pressure on prices. Ideally, it would like to help glide the economy to a "soft landing." But Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has said he would prefer to err by tightening credit too much rather than too little and thereby unleashing inflation.
The Federal Reserve, however, is finding it harder to justify rate increases to opponents, who are pointing to employment costs that are showing their skimpiest increases on record and consumer inflation under 3 percent for three straight years, the best record in three decades.
Moreover, the evidence that growth is slackening, though certainly not yet conclusive, is mounting daily. Some automobile plants have temporarily shut down, homebuilders report poor customer traffic, inventories of unsold goods have risen sharply for three straight quarters and huge increases in installment debt suggest consumers have become financially stretched.
Since raising rates last year in February, March, April and May, the Open Market Committee has followed a pattern of making subsequent increases only after intervening sessions at which no action is announced. It thus raised rates in August, November and February, skipping July, September and December. If the central bank continues to follow that pattern, there would be no increase at the March 28 meeting, delaying another increase, if that proves necessary, to May.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Digesting the Fed's Moves" shows savings rates and bond rates. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; Datastream); "Driving the Decision Makers" shows rate for private wage and salary workers, the increase of the workweek, and average number of overtime hours weekly from '90-'94. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Datastream) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (97%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; BANKS AND BANKING; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY INTEREST RATES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (84%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); BONDS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); BOND MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (67%); BYRON DORGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



52 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: WASHINGTON;
Rescue: Durable Or Brief?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
President Clinton's move to sidestep Congress and order emergency credits to Mexico halted a monthlong run on the peso, but it left Congressional critics and reluctant American supporters worrying that the bailout's success would prove temporary.
A debate over the solidity of the plan arose today as the International Monetary Fund met into the night in Washington and finally approved an emergency $17.8 billion in medium-term loans. 
 Officials said the money would be available immediately to help the Mexican Government keep from defaulting on $40 billion in bonds and other liabilities that come due this year. Approval came dispite bitter complaints by Germany and France that they had not been consulted by the White House and that the money might come out of aid to Eastern Europe and Russia.
On Capitol Hill, opponents of any American involvement in Mexico's bailout threatened hearings, focusing on what the Administration knew about Mexico's distress last year and how President Clinton diverted $20 billion in Treasury Department funds -- intended to stabilize the dollar on world markets -- to provide Mexico with emergency loans.
Not surprisingly, some of the harshest criticism came from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist and the leader of the effort to kill any aid to Mexico.
"The looting of America, on behalf of the new world order, has begun," said Mr. Buchanan, who also opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada a year ago. "Never again should a President be allowed to disregard the will of Congress to raid the U.S. Treasury to bail out Wall Street banks or a foreign regime."
Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican and an expected contender for his party's nomination for President in 1996, said Mr. Clinton was "filling a bucket that is full of holes."
But the President's action was defended by an unlikely ally: Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the Republican-controlled House of Representatives.
"The President exercised his authority," Mr. Gingrich said today. "He took a tremendous burden on his shoulders. He did what key leaders felt was necessary.
"I think people at a minimum should recognize the President had the courage to do what he was being told by the very sophisticated experts was vital to reinforce international markets."
To sell the President's action, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin assured skeptical Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill that Mexico had agreed to fundamental economic reforms and would be held to those commitments.
The reforms, spelled out in a letter from Mexican officials to the I.M.F. last week, include a more independent central bank, controls on credit expansion, continued privatization of Government-owned industry and relaxation of many of economic controls, including prohibitions on foreign investment in Mexican banks.
But Treasury officials acknowledged today that while they had talked about the loan conditions in general terms with Mexico, there was nothing on paper. Already the conditions are being described in Mexico in far more lenient terms than they are in Washington.
For the American economy, the most important question is whether the bailout strengthens the peso. Its current level makes American goods 35 percent more expensive in Mexico than they were in December, and Mexican goods that much cheaper in the United States.
The current rate also seems to many economists to be likely to encourage far more illegal immigration across the border as Mexicans seek jobs that pay in dollars.
Mr. Clinton offered one of his most impassioned defenses of his action on Tuesday night in Boston.
"I know the surveys say that by 80 to 15, or whatever they said, the American people either didn't agree or didn't understand what in the world I'm up to in Mexico," he declared. "But I want to say to you, it might be unpopular, but in a time of transition it's the right thing to do."
Some of the harshest criticism of the Administration's action today came from European capitals, which were taken by surprise by the International Monetary Fund's decision -- under strong pressure from the White House -- to add $10 billion in aid to Mexico. That is in addition the $7.8 billion that the I.M.F. approved last week.
An I.M.F. official in Washington said some European governments were concerned that the fund's remaining resources might not be enough to deal with crises in other parts of the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY BAILOUTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); TRENDS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



53 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: MEXICAN RESCUE PLAN: THE RATIONALE;
Two Views of the Peso Bailout: Wall Street vs. Main Street

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
If Washington won't bail out Orange County, why should the taxpayers risk billions on Mexico? If American communities, not to mention corporations with thousands of employees, must look to their own devices in a financial crunch, why are foreigners being held to a lesser standard?
President Clinton didn't have the answers, forcing the Administration to abandon a program of loan guarantees needing Congressional approval for a hastily pulled together package for Mexico totaling nearly $50 billion from international lenders and an obscure United States Treasury account. Indeed, the sense that the original rescue package was a bailout for Wall Street -- an unavoidable side-effect of restoring the health of the Mexican economy -- is what turned Main Street against it. 
 But many economists have no difficulty justifying the difference in treatment.
"What's needed in both cases," argues Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California, "is help in preventing a financial crisis from spreading into the productive economy." And Orange County, unlike Mexico, can make use of Federal bankruptcy laws to minimize the impact on jobs and output.
The more troubling question from economists' view is why the bailout rationale for Mexico is not more broadly applied. "If Mexico, why not Russia or Ukraine?" asks Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard University.
Paring the story to basics, Orange County speculated that interest rates would not go up, in hopes of earning more than the three or four percent available in much less risky investments. When its highly leveraged bets in the Government securities markets went sour, the county's investment fund found itself $1.7 billion in the hole.
Once the county declared bankruptcy, though, creditors could not shut off the electricity or repossess the fire trucks. The courts will assure that essential services are delivered until the county figures out a way to refinance its debts at less than extortionate rates.
Mexico's financial sins, by contrast, were more ambiguous, while its safety net was gossamer-thin.
The Mexican Government, along with private banks and many businesses, borrowed tens of billions of dollars abroad in order to finance the economy's rapid modernization without reducing Mexican living standards in the interim. When lenders' confidence waned last year, the Government quickly exhausted a $25 billion war chest amassed to defend the exchange rate of the peso. What's more, as Miguel Mancera, the Governor of Mexico's central bank, conceded on Tuesday, the Government made the problem worse by expanding local credit last fall to offset the squeeze created by the rush to exchange pesos for dollars.
By every possible measure Mexico's assets far exceed its liabilities to foreigners. The problem, at least until the rescue package was stitched together, is that Mexico doesn't have liquid assets to pay off debts linked to foreign currencies.
If Mexico were an American corporation (or a county in California), it could declare bankruptcy and maintain business almost as usual. It could even borrow at reasonable interest rates to pay for essential goods. With the court's permission, a bankrupt enterprise can attract money by assigning a new creditor priority over the old ones.
But there is no equivalent to bankruptcy for nations, no off-the-shelf method for sorting out the competing claims of creditors in the midst of a panic. And without help from foreign governments, Mr. Eichengreen notes that Mexico would have faced some wretched choices when the latest wave of its short-term bonds, called tesobonos, became due for payment.
The Government might have refinanced its foreign debts at 20 to 30 percent interest rates -- rates demanded by lenders to compensate for the risk of default. The interest charges, however, would have pushed the Government budget deeply into deficit, reinforcing the sense that Mexico was trapped on a downward financial spiral. As important, argues Mr. Eichengreen, "it would have led to a meltdown of the private banking system," as big borrowers were unable to raise the cash to meet payments on their loans. No business, after all, could afford to pay such rates.
The more likely alternative, suggests Mr. Eichengreen, was a Government default on its foreign debt. Judging from Mexico's 1982 experience with default, however, that would have blocked the country's access to fresh foreign capital for many years and pushed the economy into depression.
It is an open (and now moot) question whether other Latin American economies struggling to remake themselves in the free market image -- notably Argentina -- would have followed as foreign investors rushed for the safety of American dollars or German marks. That, however, is certainly what happened in the 1980's and what was widely expected before yesterday. "The Mexico crisis brings home the interdependence with a vengeance," argues Robert Hormats, a former Treasury official who is vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
In the best of plausible worlds, the mere availability of $50 billion from the United States Treasury, the International Monetary Fund and the Bank for International Settlements will make it unnecessary to use. The Mexican Government will seize the opportunity to stabilize the peso at an exchange rate that everyone agrees makes Mexican goods a bargain on world markets. And it will do what is necessary to prevent the higher cost of imported goods from triggering inflation.
Private lenders will, hopefully, respond by trading in their short-term Mexican securities tied to the dollar for longer maturity obligations at reasonable interest rates. New foreign capital, tempted by the enduring opportunities to profit in Mexico's virgin markets, will flow in -- though not in the torrent experienced in the early 1990's. And while some domestic banks and businesses will still fail, the crisis will be contained.
"With any luck," predicts Mr. Sachs, "Mexico will have one terrible year" followed by a return to a stable growth path.
What frustrates some economists is not that Mexico has been thrown a lifeline, but that other emerging free market economies have not been accorded equal treatment. It is no secret that American investors and exporters with big stakes in Mexico pressed Washington to intervene. Many other countries, however, have not been so lucky.
Chile, a shining example of a successful transition economy (though, admittedly, not a democratic one), was left to its own devices in its 1981 currency crisis. It took years to repair the damage. More recently -- and far more importantly -- Russia was denied access to funds needed to stabilize the ruble and embark on the long hard climb to capitalism.
Mr. Sachs notes that both Macy's and Russia suspended payments on their debts in January 1992. Three weeks later Macy's was able to arrange a $600 million transfusion from commercial banks -- so-called "debtor in possession" financing guaranteed by the bankruptcy court in order to keep fresh goods on the shelves.
By contrast, it took Russia a year to negotiate a "standstill" agreement with its foreign government creditors, and another year to see even modest amounts of fresh capital from multinational lenders.
The window of opportunity for using foreign capital to stabilize the ruble may have closed. But the drama may soon be repeated in Ukraine, which has a new government eager to join the community of open market economies. And while money may yet be forthcoming from multinational lenders, there has been no rush to help.
Why the deliberate pace? "No investment banker's Christmas bonus ever depended on Russia's financial stability," argues Mr. Sachs. Nor, presumably, will it depend on the taming of inflation in Ukraine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; CURRENCY CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); TRENDS (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (74%); REPOSSESSION (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



54 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
I'll Sleep on the Idea, But Must I Vote on It?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
The best thing about President Clinton's new plan to rescue the Mexican economy, Senator Bob Dole said on Tuesday, is that Congress will not have to vote on the matter.
Mr. Dole, the Senate Republican leader, was only half joking. Senators and representatives are always looking for ways to avoid casting votes that can be used against them in their next election. 
 That is why the sponsors of the constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget are insisting on language that would mandate roll-call votes in the House and the Senate before taxes or the ceiling on the Federal debt could be increased.
"We want to make sure that people stand up and get counted if they want to raise taxes," said Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho, a chief Republican strategist on the issue.
Over the years, Congress has devised countless techniques to enable its members to dodge tough votes. For instance:
*A commission was created to decide which military bases to close so that Congress would not face the pain of voting on them base by base.
*Under procedures adopted a few years ago, the House automatically agrees to raise the statutory ceiling on the Federal debt when it approves its annual budget resolution. That avoids what used to be an embarrassing debate and vote that forced representatives to address directly how large the debt had become.
*Under a 1989 law, lawmakers are entitled every year to a cost-of-living pay increase. The notion was that they would no longer have to vote one for themselves. Unfortunately for them, this sidestep has failed the last two years. One lawmaker or another has suggested declining the raise, and his colleagues have accepted pay frozen at $133,600 a year rather than vote on the matter.
*The House considers the appropriations bill providing money to run Congress under procedures that allow only designated amendments. That means dicey topics like money to finance the Congressional franking privilege are not subjected to votes.
The desire to avoid votes is most intense when tax increases are at stake.
In the Senate, tax issues are often settled by votes to table legislation. "Table" is just another word for "kill."
For example, in the 1993 debate over Mr. Clinton's deficit-reduction plan, Republicans offered amendments that would have eliminated provisions to raise the tax on gasoline and increase the proportion of Social Security benefits subject to income taxes.
Those tax increases were central to the Clinton plan. Most Democrats supported them. But a direct vote was viewed as politically costly. So the Democrats, then in the majority, quashed the amendments by voting to table them. That made it appear as if they were voting on a procedural matter, not specifically on raising taxes on motorists and the elderly.
In the House, tax bills are always considered under what are called closed rules. That means no amendments, or only specified amendments, are allowed.
Ostensibly, the reason for the closed rules is that the tax code is so complicated that representatives cannot possibly understand the consequences of amendments they might offer. There is some truth to that.
But the more basic reason is that closed rules protect lawmakers from having to decide between good politics and good tax policy. This way, when a lobbyist with deep pockets asks a Congressman for a tax break, the Congressman can plead that he is helpless in the face of the rules.
The balanced-budget amendment that was passed by the House last week and is now before the Senate would require a three-fifths majority of each house before the Federal debt ceiling could be increased, and would also require what is called a constitutional, or absolute, majority to raise taxes. This means 60 votes in the Senate and 261 in the House to raise the debt ceiling, and 51 votes in the Senate and 218 in the House to raise taxes, regardless of how many members are present and voting.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, objected to those provisions. "Senators who don't even show up to vote have the same power to affect the outcome as if they were present to cast a 'no' vote," he said. He said he did not understand why a tax measure should require more votes than a declaration of war, which requires only a majority of those present and voting -- a so-called simple majority, frequently declared on the basis of a voice vote.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, who is leading the Republican drive for the amendment in the Senate, explained the rationale this way: "Right now, many times when we increase the deficit in this country, we do not vote at all. We just have a voice vote. Nobody knows who are the people that have put us into debt or put us into further debt. From here on in, in both cases, that of increasing the debt or increasing taxes, we are going to have roll-call votes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona, Fred Thompson of Tennessee and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine appeared at a news conference yesterday to discuss the balanced-budget amendment. If they and other Republicans have their way, roll-call votes will one day be required in both the House and the Senate to raise taxes or the debt ceiling. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; TAXATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); CLOSINGS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FUEL TAX (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MILITARY BASES (67%); INCOME TAX (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (91%); JON KYL (58%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



55 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Battling the Contract, Gephardt Offers a Code

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Searching for a political counterweight to the Republicans' Contract With America, the House minority leader today unveiled a new economic strategy for his party: what he called a Best Practices Code of Conduct for American business, an approach that focuses on promoting the well-being of middle-income workers.
"For Democrats, the single, simple, fundamental task of our party -- in this Congress, in this decade, in this generation -- is to fight for the standard of living of working families and the middle class," the Democratic leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, said in a speech to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal group of economic policy experts. "Everything else is secondary to that goal." 
 Mr. Gephardt and other House Democrats promoted his speech as the opening salvo in their efforts to regain control of Congress and win back support of the voters. But there appeared to be another purpose as well: to demonstrate to the White House, which received no advance notice of the talk, that Congressional Democrats were prepared to reach out to the electorate on their own rather than invariably follow the Administration's lead.
Mr. Gephardt's message was short on details, which he promised would be laid out in the coming weeks and months, but long on criticism of the Republicans and their Contract, which he called "a nice academic exercise" but "irrelevant."
"Republicans think it's better to just give the middle class a psychic punching bag," Mr. Gephardt said, "to let them vent all their anger and frustration on government and politicians, to let them lash out at those who have the least and need the most, even if that does nothing to actually improve their lives."
At the heart of the new Democratic economic strategy is the championing of causes like a substantial increase in the minimum wage, now $4.25 an hour; a health care overhaul; a middle-class tax cut, and President Clinton's Middle Class Bill of Rights, which includes calls for expanded individual retirement arrangements and tax breaks to help Americans pay for education.
Mr. Gephardt called on American business to get behind the new Democratic program.
"We can't force the business community to put people first, even though it's right both morally and economically," he said. "But we can condition any tax break to business on the adoption of the Best Practices Code of Conduct -- not just in America, but wherever our companies do business. We can condition the adoption of every single trade agreement" on the other nation's "adoption of the Code of Conduct or a similar commitment to their working people."
At another point, Mr. Gephardt said he would propose legislation to create "a brand-new class of stock that can be issued by companies that follow the Code of Conduct, so that individual investors can build a Best Practices portfolio so that they have a way to get involved, to help build a stronger economy for all of us."
As with most of the ideas he advanced in his speech, Mr. Gephardt did not elaborate on this one. And his spokeswoman, Laura Nichols, said later that she was not sufficiently familiar with it to answer questions.
Mr. Gephardt's talk had the flavor more of a stump speech than of a party policy statement.
"For several years now," he said at one point, "I've traveled this country, meeting with the C.E.O.'s and managers, the programmers and line workers, the salespeople and secretaries, who are making these companies succeed when so many others are falling behind."
Some of the 100 people in attendance seized on references like that one. Indeed, a brief question-and-answer session after the speech produced an awkward moment for the Congressional leader when one person in the audience asked, "Shouldn't you be running for President?"
"I'm happy to be minority leader and hoping to be the majority leader or Speaker," replied Mr. Gephardt, who has sometimes been mentioned as a possible rival to Mr. Clinton for the 1996 Democratic Presidential nomination.
Mr. Gephardt's spokeswoman, Ms. Nichols, said the Code of Conduct was a Democratic Congressional initiative that had been drawn up without help from the Administration. But she said it paralleled the President's New Covenant.
Ms. Nichols also said Mr. Gephardt had scheduled a series of speeches across the country over the next few months to promote the new economic strategy and to try to stir grass-roots support before introducing any legislation in the House.
A White House spokeswoman said that the Administration had had no advance knowledge of Mr. Gephardt's new initiative but that his efforts were welcome.
"As he talked about in the State of the Union, the President thinks that the American public has sent a message that they expect more of their Government," said the spokeswoman, Ginny Terzano. "I think what Congressman Gephardt addressed today is much of the same issues."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Gephardt, House minority leader, offering a new Democratic economic strategy in a speech to the Economic Policy Institute. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STANDARD OF LIVING; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ETHICS (90%); BEST PRACTICES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); GRAY, JERRY BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



56 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
Sincerity Cannot Tell The Future

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
THE Governor of New York is earnest and friendly as he sits in his office minutes after proposing his budget. Speaking in that reedy voice of his about reviving the work ethic and encouraging the entrepreneurial spirit and cutting taxes no matter what, he seems to suggest that that if the state would just listen to him, its problems would go away and New York could become North Carolina. Or even New Jersey.
In the new world of George E. Pataki, people on welfare will work. 
 Long-abandoned manufacturing plants will reopen.
The 400,000 jobs lost in the last decade will return.
The elderly, poor and disabled will adjust to Medicaid cuts. So will hospitals and nursing homes.
New York City's schools will cope with up to 20,000 more students and less money.
The homeless who are mentally ill will manage, despite reductions in aid for housing and community services.
Laid-off state workers will find new jobs.
THIS partial list is not offered with sarcasm. It is meant as a genuine reflection of the Governor's philosophy of government. He reiterated today what he said during the campaign -- that cutting taxes and government regulations will make the state more competitive, which will make it more attractive to businesses, which will lead them to stay in New York rather than leave, or even move back, which would stimulate the economy, which would benefit everybody.
Mr. Pataki sounds so sold on his philosophy that he might well have proposed the same budget even if New York were thriving. "It is driven by policy," he said of his plan. "There are very important policy changes I think we need in this state. We've been noncompetitive for a long time."
But is it so sure that if the Governor says it, it will happen? Does government ever work in so neat a fashion?
Maybe it will, but it never has before. Policy changes in government work in fits and starts, and rarely in the way their authors said they would. That is probably especially true for these cuts, which weigh so heavily on the people who need government the most. By the Pataki administration's own accounting, 40 percent of its proposed cuts are in social services -- in Medicaid, welfare, in services for the mentally ill and the drug- and alcohol-addicted.
"The question is, where is he creating jobs in the public sector for these people to be employed?" asked Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, wondering about the jobs that those on welfare are supposed to get if the Governor's proposal for workfare wins legislative approval.
MR. SILVER, Democrat of Manhattan, might be expected to sound the alarm. He is, after all, the loyal opposition. But Mr. Pataki's own Social Services Commissioner, Mary E. Glass, voiced concerns of her own about the proposed welfare cuts in a lengthy letter to the Budget Director that was never meant to go public. It was leaked, though, and now Ms. Glass claims that Mr. Pataki has made changes enough to satisfy her.
A reading of her letter would suggest otherwise. She worried, for instance, that a 15 percent decrease in the basic grant for those who receive Aid to Families With Dependent Children could increase the number of the homeless. The decrease is still in the plan, and while the proposal to increase the amount a welfare recipient could earn without losing benefits might soften the impact, it is difficult to assume it will make up for it entirely.
"I cannot in all honesty say people will not be negatively impacted by this budget," says the Governor. But many people are hurting now, he noted, citing the lives of poor children in Harlem that were portrayed in New York Times articles that ran during last fall's campaign. "Are those people doing well?" he asked.
The question is rhetorical; of course they are not. The central issue confronting New York on the day Mr. Pataki has released his budget is more complex. It is whether government is really the enemy, and whether policies that affect people living on the edge of society will pull them back, or push them over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MEDICAID (89%); ETHICS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); NURSING HOMES (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (72%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



57 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: A Rose or a Thorn for East Harlem?;
Sentiment Is Divided Over a Proposal for a Huge Supermarket

BYLINE: By JENNIFER KINGSON BLOOM 

 BODY:
To the residents of East Harlem, the announcement last September that a nonprofit development corporation had raised millions of dollars to help build a giant Pathmark supermarket on 125th Street was the answer to years of prayers.
Like people in countless communities with large minority populations in the city and across the country, they had watched as the chain stores shunned their neighborhood and consigned them to shopping in smaller stores, often with higher prices and inferior merchandise. 
 But now, with a final vote on the project only a few weeks away, the plan has run into aggressive opposition from local merchants and divided the community along ethnic and cultural lines, pitting Hispanic bodega owners who worry about the competition against black residents who see the new supermarket as a source for jobs.
Under the plans, a consortium of nonprofit developers would buy a block of city-owned land on 125th Street between Third and Lexington Avenues and use $12 million they have raised to build a store.
Pathmark has promised to take a long-term lease on the store and employ about 200 local residents. But the East Harlem store owners say the project would ultimately cost more jobs than it created, as smaller markets wither. They object to the size of the proposed supermarket, which at 53,000 square feet would be about the size of a football field, as well as the tax breaks Pathmark would get for creating jobs in the newly designated Federal Empowerment Zone.
"A 20,000-square-foot Pathmark would be O.K., even though it would be twice the size of any supermarket in the area," said Alfredo Rodriguez, who owns two Associated Foods stores in East Harlem. "Competition is fine, but the subsidies they are getting make it unfair competition."
Pathmark has said it is not interested in opening a smaller market, and many residents say they welcome a store on the scale the developers are planning. Proponents say that the large store is desperately needed and that it will draw shoppers and other retailers to the area.
"Why should we stop the project just because there's a few business people who want to have it scaled down for their own purposes?" said Ronald Thompson, chairman of the economic development committee of Community Board 11, which includes 125th Street. "It could revitalize not only 125th Street, but the whole East Harlem area."
The 45-member community board is divided along ethnic and cultural lines over the project, with black supporters in a narrow majority. Many market owners are Dominican and are joined by other Hispanic residents in charging that the black leaders on the development team are excluding them.
In turn, blacks complain about Hispanic store owners' hiring practices. "The supermarkets that we have now do not hire African-American employees, and East Harlem is 39 percent African-American," Mr. Thompson said. "There's a lot of bad feelings over that."
Hispanic people make up 53 percent of the district, which runs from 96th Street to 142d Street, east of Fifth Avenue.
But not everyone is lining up by race or ethnicity. Eddie Baca, the chairman of Community Board 11, who is Hispanic and Pathmark's main supporter, said that only a handful of family-run bodegas might be hurt by the supermarket, and that he is seeking city subsidies for them.
"It's basically a Dominican interest outside of East Harlem that is behind the opposition campaign," he said. "Their concern is that they think this is an African-American project. They are just hiding behind this issue about the size."
Although the main developer of the project is the Abyssinian Development Corporation, an arm of one of the city's most prominent black churches, the Abyssinian Baptist Church, Mr. Baca contended that everyone in the neighborhood would benefit from it.
For instance, he said, a Puerto Rican development group is trying to build 100 units of housing on the second floor of the Pathmark store.
The champion of the small merchants is Councilman Adam Clayton Powell 4th, whose political base lies with the Hispanic residents of East Harlem and who contends that the tug-of-war is solely economic rather than ethnic or cultural.
"It is not fair," Mr. Powell said, "for this huge, multibillion-dollar institution to come in with our taxpayer dollars and destroy businesses that have been passed on for generations and generations."
Despite the heat, the project, which has been stalled in the past by changes in sponsorship, has been moving forward steadily. Last September, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a community development group started by the Ford Foundation, announced that it had raised $24 million to help finance the Pathmark store and others like it in inner-city neighborhoods across the country.
About $4 million was earmarked for the Harlem project, giving it a significant boost.
Fine points of the $12 million deal are being negotiated as planners await a vote, most likely in March, by the Manhattan Borough Board, which must approve the sale of city land to the developers.
The board consists of Manhattan's 10 City Council members, the chairman of the affected community board -- in this case Mr. Baca -- and Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, who is the chairwoman of the board and supports the project but will vote only in case of a tie.
Most of the 10 City Council members say they are still undecided. But three of them -- Mr. Powell, Guillermo Linares and Antonio Pagan -- publicly oppose the project and are trying to coax colleagues to reject it.
Councilmen Linares and Pagan said they had bad experiences when Pathmark moved to their districts. "What it did in the beginning," said Mr. Pagan, who represents the Lower East Side, "was out-compete everyone else, run out of business all the small stores and then, after monopolizing the market, has run a noncompetitive operation. Everyone was expecting Shangri-La."
But Burt P. Flickinger 3d, an analyst who follows supermarkets for A.T. Kearney Consultants, said the Pathmark stores in Washington Heights and on the Lower East Side had raised the standard of living in those areas. Complaints and fears from smaller store owners, he said, were "overstated."
"When New York City first asked Pathmark to move into the Washington Heights section, a lot of the small markets and bodega owners screamed with determination and passion," Mr. Flickinger said. "But 15 years later, Pathmark's huge superstore on West 207th Street coexists extremely well with all of the Hispanic bodegas in that neighborhood."
Still, the approval by Council members appears far from certain. Councilwoman C. Virginia Fields said she gets frequent telephone calls from Housing Authority tenants who want the new supermarket. She supports the project but said she is "open to listening to all sides."
As the vote nears, both sides are stepping up their lobbying efforts. The Harlem opponents and their hired consultant plan to appeal to each council member in person.
Mr. Baca said the community board would hold a reception for the Council members and make a presentation in Pathmark's favor, and other sponsor groups, including the Local Initiatives Support Corporation and the city's Economic Development Corporation, are also working to promote the deal.
If it passes, the project will still need the approval of Mayor Rudolph W. Guiliani. If it is built, the supermarket will be the largest in upper Manhattan and will include a pharmacy, flower shop and delicatessen.
"This will be a regional shopping center, offering the same type of shopping that people in suburban communities have," said Karen Phillips, project manager for the Abyssinian Development Corporation. "We think that is exactly what Harlem residents deserve."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A proposal for a large Pathmark grocery store has caused a rift among residents of East Harlem. Eddie Baca, above, of Community Board 11, supports the project. Only a few small stores might be hurt by the supermarket, he said, and he said he would seek subsidies for them. He stood at 125th Street and Third Avenue, the proposed site; Councilman Adam Clayton Powell 4th opposes the store. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Map shows the proposed Pathmark site. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); SUPERMARKETS; BLACKS (IN US); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: BLOOM, JENNIFER KINGSON G KENNEDY THOMPSON (52%); G KENNEDY THOMPSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



58 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: It's One Strike and You're Out in Florida

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla., Feb. 1

 BODY:
After its grand opening this week, the Shooters restaurant here was counting on baseball's exhibition season for a marketing blitz. Among the plans: ticket giveaways, visits from big-name players, advertisements flown over two gleaming stadiums.
Now, with the baseball strike threatening spring training, which is supposed to start in the third week of this month, the restaurant has started looking into a fishing motif. 
 "The emotional loss is the real loss," the owner, Robert Cox, says of a winter without major league baseball. "Spring training is an event. It's a lot of fun. It cultivates interest and excitement."
For Florida cities like Fort Myers, where the Boston Red Sox and the Minnesota Twins are based, the exhibition games also mean thousands of tourists in roughly six precious weeks. Local officials estimate the two teams bring in about $28 million each year.
But at a time when this city on Florida's west coast would be preparing to welcome three times as many visitors as its population of 50,000, it does not know whether to expect relief or disaster. The strike negotiations resumed today, with both sides trying to avoid a Government-imposed settlement. President Clinton has set next Monday as a deadline for the two sides to show some progress in the talks.
Twenty of the 28 major league teams train in Florida, and state officials say the season brings $315 million to the economy a year, mostly on lodging, food, transportation and other spending by fans, the teams and journalists, among others. A cancellation would mean damage "not unlike that of a natural disaster," Gov. Lawton Chiles told President Clinton in a letter urging him to help settle the strike.
In Arizona, where the rest of the teams train, state officials say the season brings in $265 million a year.
In spring training cities there is hope that at the very least the season will go on with replacement players and still attract fans. The Red Sox and the Twins are already planning to hold tryouts in Fort Myers for minor league players and former baseball players.
But the uncertainty has had an effect. One tour operator, Major League Vacations Inc. in Philadelphia, which handles only sports-related packages, says travel from the Northeast to Florida is down 40 percent. Most stadiums are reporting a 10 percent to 20 percent drop in ticket sales, said Mayor Wilbur Smith of Fort Myers, who as head of a baseball task force for the United States Conference of Mayors is sitting in on the strike negotiations.
Some cities -- like Melbourne, where the Florida Marlins train -- would lose less than others because the team, not the city, gets the stadium revenue, according to a survey last November by the United States Conference of Mayors.
Cities like Fort Lauderdale, where the New York Yankees train, say that local businesses would not be hurt because other attractions in the area draw tourists.
But some cities, like West Palm Beach, said they stood to lose more than $1 million a game in tickets and concessions, taxes and local business revenues, the survey found.
For the most part, spring training has been used by small towns, like Lakeland and Dunedin, to woo tourists who would otherwise go to more popular destinations, like Orlando and Miami. Officials say the teams, playing in the Grapefruit League in Florida and the Cactus League in Arizona, have attracted tourists, residents and businesses.
With prestige and development at stake, the cities have spent millions to steal teams from one other, often offering state-of-the-art stadiums at low rents and relinquishing revenue from ticket sales, concessions, parking and paid advertising in favorable deals for the teams. Since the 1920's, Fort Myers has been host to six different teams.
In 1987, Lee County officials let the Kansas City Royals leave Fort Myers, the county seat, for Haines City near Disney World after refusing to make $1.5 million worth of renovations to a stadium. In 1991 they paid $22 million for a new 80-acre Lee County Sports Complex, including an 8,500-seat stadium, to lure the Twins from Orlando.
Two years ago, Fort Myers wooed the Red Sox from Winter Haven with a $24 million 7,000-seat stadium, City of Palms Park, built with money raised by a bond issue. It pays $1.7 million a year on the debt; it gets $210,000 in rent from the Red Sox, $110,000 through a ticket surcharge and $50,000 in parking fees.
It will not break even for 10 years, Mayor Smith said.
But the two teams draw 200,000 fans to mostly sold-out games for the season, among the highest attendance among all teams. Mayor Smith said the publicity the Red Sox generate -- their games are televised in New England -- attracts snowbirds to Fort Myers. He also credits the team with sparking the construction or renovation of three major hotels and a high-rise condominium.
Now, with the season in question, many here say they expect minimal impact because there is already a market of visitors who come as much for baseball as for the beaches and warm weather. Some business owners note that many fans would not care if replacements are used because it is baseball that they miss.
"There are only two or three stars on a team; the rest are just ballplayers," said Michael Potts, of Potts' Sports Cafe near the Twins' stadium. "They can get a lot of new stars."
At the City of Palms Park today, ticket sales were so slow, said Bill MacKay, the director of Florida operations for the Red Sox, that the team was considering cutting ticket prices -- $9 for box seats, $8 for reserved seats -- in half.
The first game is scheduled for March 3, against the Twins.
At the box office, three workers languished behind the glass windows. Philip Cox, 71, a retiree from Indianapolis, was the lone ticket buyer in almost an hour. He said he had come to Fort Myers for the last three years for baseball and the weather. He bought tickets for a game scheduled for March 27, although it was not certain that the Red Sox or their opponent, the Baltimore Orioles, would show up.
He said he would hold off on more ticket purchases. "I'm really disgusted with the players and the owners for not settling it," he said. "It's ridiculous, these multimillion-dollar crybabies."

GRAPHIC: Map of Florida showing location of Fort Myers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON RED SOX; MINNESOTA TWINS MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX; MINNESOTA TWINS BOSTON RED SOX (83%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); MINNESOTA TWINS (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; FORT MYERS (FLA); UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; STRIKES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR BASEBALL (93%); RESTAURANTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TICKET SALES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (64%); MAYORS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA BILL CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



59 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Russian Army Violated Human Rights in Chechnya

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
The Administration accused Russia today of human rights abuses, saying Moscow had violated international agreements when it sent troops into Chechnya, the secessionist republic, to attack civilians.
It also accused Russia of making arbitrary arrests, beating prisoners and allowing military recruits to be abused in systematic hazing. 
 In the State Department's annual human rights report, the Administration cited statements by Russia's own rights commissioner citing violations on a "massive scale" in Chechnya.
The report criticized Moscow for carrying out air strikes that killed and injured hundreds of civilians and destroyed most buildings in Grozny, the capital, including hospitals and an orphanage.
Assessing human rights in more than 160 countries, the State Department reserved its harshest criticism for perennial adversaries, including Iraq, Iran, Cuba and North Korea.
The department said Iraq had amputated ears and branded foreheads of criminals, and had tortured people to death.
The report also had tough words for nations friendly to the United States, including Mexico, Egypt, Guatemala, Indonesia and Turkey.
Just a day after President Clinton announced almost $50 billion to rescue Mexico's economy, the report used stinging language to assail electoral fraud in Mexico, killings by the police, widespread torture and discrimination against indigenous people. In particular, the report cited abuses by the military in countering a peasant uprising in Chiapas.
The report praised Mexico for setting up a commission for human rights, but said, "By year's end however, it had tried and punished few human rights abusers, and abuses remained widespread."
Administration officials say they hoped the report would put some pressure on Russia, Mexico and other nations, though such reports have rarely succeeded in doing that since the department began publishing them in 1977.
While praising many of the conclusions, Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said today, "The report is honest but irrelevant, in that there has been a systematic failure to translate its observations into U.S. policy."
The State Department said China's performance had deteriorated in the year since President Clinton reversed his policy and granted China preferential trade benefits in the hope that would cause Beijing to improve human rights.
John H. F. Shattuck, Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights, defended this policy, saying open trade can encourage freedom by strengthening independent institutions. Still, he said, "trade relations by themselves are no substitute for vigorous human rights advocacy."
In criticizing Russia, the report focused on far more more than Chechnya. It accused President Boris N. Yeltsin of issuing decrees in conflict with constitutional rights against arbitrary arrests and illegal searches and seizures, and noted that Russian courts rarely challenge the executive. "The concept of the rule of law has yet to be institutionalized and implemented," it said.
The State Department said that Russia's law enforcement officials often beat prisoners and that prisons are overcrowded and teeming with disease. The report harshly condemned the practice of sending lesbians to hospitals where they are often given chemical treatments.
While the report praised Russia by saying there were no known political killings by agents of the Government, it noted that several journalists and legislators had been gunned down. "The line between politically motivated killings and criminal activities has become difficult to distinguish," it added.
For the first time, the State Department report reviewed the new Palestinian Authority in Jericho and Gaza, and it did not give the authority high marks.
The report levels many of the same criticisms that it has leveled at Israel, saying both the Palestinians and the Israelis imposed censorship and mistreated detainees. The report also said there were credible reports that the Palestinian police on occasion had used excessive force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CHINA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EGYPT (92%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); IRAQ; IRAN; CUBA; NORTH KOREA; MEXICO; EGYPT; GUATEMALA; ; INDONESIA; TURKEY; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CHINA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EGYPT (92%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); TORTURE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ELECTION FRAUD (52%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



60 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Aid, in Moderation

 BODY:
Foreign aid, never very popular with Americans, is on the chopping block. It is not easy to argue the merits of Federal spending to diminish poverty, hunger and disease abroad when budget cuts mean inadequate funding for those problems at home. But some substantial benefits for the U.S. can be secured by relatively inexpensive foreign aid programs that are carefully selected and managed.
Aid that directly attacks the causes of global insecurity like poverty, disease, overpopulation and environmental degradation can prevent the sort of political instability and humanitarian disasters that ultimately require more costly American involvement. If the budget-cutters are not careful, they may shortchange aid to those who need it most and where it may do the most good. 
 Of the $12.3 billion in the current aid budget, more than half goes to programs that directly reduce risks to U.S. security -- $3 billion to Israel and $2.1 billion to Egypt to promote peace in the Middle East, and $1.2 billion to the former Soviet bloc to encourage transitions to democracy and markets. Republican leaders in Congress have pledged to sustain these efforts.
If that position prevails, most of the cuts will come from the $4.2 billion that benefits the poorest of the poor, especially in Africa, and has helped turn around countries like Zimbabwe and Botswana.
That aid is being redirected to small projects, often disbursed by development banks or non-governmental organizations, to better the lives of millions -- like immunizing children in Kenya and Honduras and introducing new agricultural techniques that may yet allow Bangladesh to feed itself. If carefully targeted, aid can help promote peaceful transitions in South Africa and Zaire.
Critics stress the low growth rates attained by aid recipients and the failure of aid to promote democratic, market-oriented development. That is hardly a surprise since in the past most aid went to prop up cold-war clients like Turkey, Greece, Pakistan and Indonesia, some of which were governed by unsavory regimes. The development objectives of that aid were overridden by security considerations -- often with the support of today's critics.
It is too soon to judge the results of more recent strategies to broaden participation in development projects that spur economic growth or educate women to reduce birth rates. That suggests the need for modesty, both in the claims made for foreign aid and in the amounts allocated to it. It does not mean slashing the aid effort indiscriminately.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); KENYA (77%); GREECE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); KENYA (77%); GREECE (52%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COLD WAR (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOME SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



61 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Cut, but Be Fair to the City

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki has crafted a budget that follows his campaign promises, but also threatens to deal punishing blows to New York City. Indeed, the Governor's cuts in state aid to the city's schools, subways and hospital and welfare programs are so sweeping that political opponents in Albany seemed stunned. Mr. Pataki needed to limit spending, of course, to close the deficit and at the same time make good on his promised tax cuts. Given the reality that he has the political strength to redistribute revenues in this way, questions of fairness -- in sharing the pain of budget reductions and the rewards of the tax breaks -- become foremost.
Sheldon Silver, the Assembly Speaker, said the $5 billion in spending reductions was "significantly, purposefully targeted at New York City." He foresaw a $100 million loss to schools, a 25- or 30-cent subway fare increase and several hundred million in losses for the Health and Hospitals Corporation. In other words, he portrays the Governor as contemplating an unfairly brutal blow to the social-services infrastructure of a city with over half of New York State's welfare population. 
 Governor Pataki, with equal force, argues that the city will not be hurt or treated unfairly. Moreover, he said, it is a budget "driven by policy." One central policy -- "changing welfare to workfare" -- is hard to argue with. So, considering his mandate, is the macroeconomic rationale behind the budget. He says that New York, a state untouched by the economic recovery of the 90's, must cut taxes on individuals and business in order to attract jobs.
The conflict between Mr. Pataki and New York City Democrats, then, will be over questions of balance and equity. The tax cuts he proposed are more progressive than one would have expected; 400,000 low-income taxpayers will be relieved altogether of state income taxes. But 50 percent of the overall benefits of the tax plan still go to people making over $100,000. That is unseemly at a time when elderly and disabled people are seeing decreases in their paltry monthly allowances.
Close analysis is needed to show if the cuts in social spending will be as hard on New York City as they appear at first glance to be. If so, city politicians have no choice but to battle for a better deal within the parameters of the Governor's generally sensible budget strategy.
This brings us up against a harsh political reality. Because New York City's Mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, is already in trouble with his party over the fall election, he is limited in his ability to oppose the Governor. That means a heavier responsibility for Republicans like Senator Roy Goodman and Democrats like Mr. Silver.
This is an ideological budget that threatens to shift taxes to local governments in years ahead. The city must push back to insure an even distribution of sacrifice. Governor Pataki, for his part, deserves credit for shaping a budget that is clear in its goals and true to his mandate. But in the days ahead, he and the Legislature need to review the arithmetic, keeping in mind that punishing the city will not contribute to the long-term prosperity of the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MAYORS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



62 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Singapoverty

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Never in history has there been widespread famine in a democratic country with a political opposition and a free press. Starvation by the millions takes place only under tyranny or in anarchy.
Communist Russia was decimated by famine in the 1930's; in Communist China, starvation took 30 million lives after the "great leap forward" three decades ago; in this generation, we see famine sweeping anarchic and despotic states in Africa. Contrariwise, in India -- where famine seemed inescapable under sultans, nizams and colonial rule -- no famine has struck since democracy began in 1947. 
 Why? Because rulers never go hungry. Where there is no accountability at election time, nor uncensored criticism of failure to anticipate the effects of flood and drought, a king or dictator faces no political penalty for the catastrophe that kills millions of "his" people. Democracy, on the other hand, puts in place an early warning system of the free media and a powerful political incentive to avert disaster.
This was the stunning argument put forth last weekend by Amartya Sen, the Indian philosopher who now serves as president of the American Economic Association, at a panel of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
The topic goes to the heart of the controversy that will affect China after Deng Xiaoping dies: "Freedom and needs: Do political rights or economic basics come first?"
Hard-line Communists in Beijing, eager to capture the fruits of capitalism while denying the political freedom at its roots, point to "the Singapore model": a state that enshrines order at the expense of liberty.
Singapore's dictator, Lee Kuan Yew, justifies his repression of dissent by equating opposition with crime, turning his judicial system into black-robed enforcers of conformity. And the money flows in: He rationalizes his old-fashioned despotism by exalting the prosperity that comes with his ruthless enforcement of stability.
The dictator, who shows his contempt for modernity by anointing his son to be successor, dresses up this return to Mussolini's boast of making the trains run on time as an assertion of uniquely Asian values. His acolytes condemn as decadent a Western respect for individual dignity; they hail their leader's claim that Asian culture prefers putting "society" first, as if Asians were genetically designed to kiss the cane.
Western bankers lap up this claptrap because it seems to guarantee them a secure, business-friendly environment; they are blind to any risk of expropriation in a coup by the next Singapore strongman. Beijing big shots embrace the corporate statist model, too, because it enables their family members to use Communist Party influence to enrich themselves in the "open" market.
In the Davos meeting, the job of giving the old Fascism a fresh cultural face fell to Kishore Mahbubani, Permanent Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Singapore. "Please do not advise us what to do about the freedom of the person," he told Westerners, "and we will not advise you. Allow history to be the judge."
Nadine Strossen, the feisty new president of the American Civil Liberties Union, countered by pointing to the universality of declarations of human rights; Asian nations are signed up, too. Ominously, the Permanent Secretary replied: "All human rights covenants were created when the West was in power. In the future, these agreements will assert the rights of society over the rights of individuals."
That's what makes reversal of the verdicts of the island shopping center so important. Singapore's false message -- that human rights are a luxury that emerging nations cannot afford -- is what the faction that urged the killings of Tiananmen want to impress on 1.2 billion Chinese. Nothing should chill the free world's response to Singapore's systematic humiliations.
After the meeting, the Permanent Secretary noticed the name on my credential and cordially invited me to revisit his country. I asked what would happen if I wrote while there that the dictator's despo-nepotism was protected by a battery of power-corrupted judges.
An honest answer broke through: "You'd probably go to jail." Which is why you won't soon see this column under a Singapore dateline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE; CHINA; CHINA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FAMINE (91%); STARVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); COUPS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); WEATHER (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; DENG XIAOPING DENG XIAOPING (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



63 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Let's Look at Biases in the History Standards

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re Frank Rich's "Eating Her Offspring" (column, Jan. 26): Mr. Rich attempts to whitewash a seriously flawed document and to portray the proposed National History Standards as a "middle-of-the-road committee product." 
 Yet no impartial reader is likely to agree that the controversy over the document should be dismissed as political rhetoric. It contains far too many loaded phrases like "the old Protestant European American's sway over the diverse peoples of this nation"; loaded questions like "Why have many American cities today become 'reservations for poor people'?", and one-sided questions like "What major grievances have been advanced by spokespersons for African-Americans, Asian-Americans, Hispanic Americans and native Americans?", with no corresponding questions asking, for example, how Asian-Americans have advanced educationally and economically and the reasons for their intermarriage rates.
That so many academic historians, high school teachers and professional organizations created or approved such a biased document is the real story in this controversy. What must be insisted upon is full public discussion and approval of any proposed standards before they are handed out to educators and publishers.
 
SANDRA STOTSKY
Cambridge, Mass., Jan. 29, 1995
 
The writer, a research associate at Harvard's Graduate School of Education, is on the Committee to Review National Standards, an American Enterprise Institute project.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HISTORY (77%); APPROVALS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); MARRIAGE (53%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; COSTRELL, ROBERT M FRANK RICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



64 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: In Russia, Another Time, Another Boris

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Strains of Chechnya War Setting Russians on Edge" (front page, Jan. 29) states that the 17th-century Time of Troubles in Russia was caused by a religious schism. 
 This assertion contains a major historical error that in turn causes missing the reason for its contemporary relevance.
In the 1660's a split over liturgical matters in the Russian Orthodox Church gave rise to the sect of Old Believers and came to be called the Great Schism.
The Time of Troubles occurred 60 years earlier and resulted from Ivan the Terrible's disastrous policies and the end of the 800-year-old Riurikid dynasty.
It was indeed, as mentioned, a time of "social and political chaos" -- economic collapse, rebellion, pretenders to the throne, foreign invasion -- and ended with the elevation of the Romanovs to the throne in 1613.
A major figure in and cause of the Time of Troubles was another Boris, Boris Godunov, and Russians are quick to make the connection with President Boris N. Yeltsin's problems -- as I discovered last year when I lectured in Moscow on the topic.
 
CYNTHIA HYLA WHITTAKER
Professor of History
Baruch College and
CUNY Graduate Center
New York, Jan. 29, 1995

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (78%); RELIGION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITTAKER, CYNTHIA HYLA BORIS ALEXANDER 'ALEXANDER' GODUNOV (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



65 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Let's Look at Biases in the History Standards;
Skewed Economics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Frank Rich's claim (column, Jan. 26) that the National History Standards are "middle of the road" is not sustained by a reading of their economic history. A telling example is the standard on the causes of the Great Depression, which is quite outside the contours of the debate among economic historians. 
 The Federal Reserve is not mentioned, eliminating the monetarist side of the debate. The standard setters ignore the massive joint work of the Nobel laureate Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz, a distinguished fellow of the American Economic Association.
Moreover, the Keynesianism presented is not credited by modern Keynesians. Although various factors are mentioned, the standards' chief explanation of the Depression is what they dub the "trickle down" economics of Calvin Coolidge.
According to the standard, the 1920's unequal distribution of income and wealth somehow led to the Depression, presumably through some crude, undersconsumptionist mechanism. But as shown by Peter Temin of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a leading Keynesian historian of the Depression, this "imagined cause" could account for no more than a minuscule fraction of decline in gross domestic product.
The standard is out of step with both Keynesian and monetarist research over the last few decades. The authors' focus on distributional issues has clouded their treatment of the Depression's causes, much as it has distorted the economic history elsewhere in this imbalanced document.
 
ROBERT M. COSTRELL
Chestnut Hill, Mass., Jan. 29, 1995
 
The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts and a member of the Committee to Review National Standards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TELEVISION; FEDERAL AID (US) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WRITERS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; STOTSKY, SANDRA FRANK RICH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



66 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Apache Tribe Rejects Move to Store Nuclear Waste on Reservation

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M., Feb. 1

 BODY:
Wendell Chino, the president of the Mescalero Apache tribe in southern New Mexico, had hoped to convince his people that their role as stewards of the earth included tending to the tons of highly radioactive nuclear waste that accumulates daily at the nation's electrical generating plants.
He spoke solemnly of "ghost bullets" -- invisible shards that were deadly if mishandled, but something that could earn millions of dollars a year if treated with respect. 
 But, finally, his people said no.
Today the votes cast in a tribal referendum on Tuesday were tabulated, and the Tribal Council announced that the Mescaleros had overturned a tentative agreement that would have allowed 33 utility companies to store thousands of tons of spent fuel rods on the reservation until the Department of Energy could find a permanent repository for the waste.
Tribal officials had estimated that the Mescaleros could earn about $ 250 million by taking on the radioactive burden for 40 years.
"Right or wrong, they made a decision," Mr. Chino said. "I don't have a problem with it. I just recognize the fact that the people have shut the door on themselves in not accepting a great opportunity."
The result came as a surprise to a community in which discord is frowned upon and following the lead of the tribal president is considered good citizenship.
Mr. Chino has been president of the tribe for three decades. Though the Mescaleros have an estimated unemployment rate as high as 36 percent, the tribe has prospered under his leadership. The Ski Apache resort and the Inn of the Mountain Gods are big money-makers.
"The Pueblos make pottery," Mr. Chino is fond of saying. "The Mescaleros make money."
The dispute over accepting the wastes divided descendants of two of the tribe's most honored leaders, Geronimo and Cochise. Silas Cochise, the great-grandson of the chief of the Chiricahua group of Apache, was the manager of the waste project; Joseph Geronimo, a leader of the opposition, is a grandson of the legendary Apache warrior.
Mr. Chino said that under tribal law, a referendum was not really necessary; he and the council, which signed a nonbinding agreement with the utilities in December, could have gone ahead on their own. He also said that though he would abide by the decision, he did not consider the vote to be decisive.
The turnout was the largest of any election in recent years -- about two-thirds of the tribe's 1,200 eligible voters. The vote was 362 for the waste site and 490 opposed.
The plan was opposed by both of New Mexico's Senators, Jeff Bingaman, a Democrat, and Pete V. Domenici, a Republican. The New Mexico Legislature and environmentalists also opposed it.
A main concern of opponents was that without a firm commitment by the Federal Government on a final storage place for the spent fuel rods, a temporary site could end up being permanent. The Department of Energy has been studying the possibility of opening a permanent repository at Yucca Mountain in Nevada, but it is not even certain yet if the site is geologically suitable, much less politically feasible.
While the search for storage sites drags on, utilities are keeping their spent fuel at their reactors. The Nuclear Energy Institute, a trade association, estimates that within three years 26 plants will run out of room.
Phillip Bayne, the group's president, said today that the Mescalero vote "closes out the opportunity to build a private storage site." He said the industry would now concentrate on pressing the Government to open a permanent repository.
Critics of the plan maintain that New Mexico is a particularly inappropriate place for a temporary repository because it is not a major transportation hub and is not near the utilities generating the waste, increasing the danger of a highway accident involving nuclear material.
Gwen Wardwell, chairwoman of the Rio Grande chapter of the Sierra Club, which covers New Mexico and El Paso, said, "When it's a decision between money or the environment, people will come down on the side of the environment."
But much of the opposition to the Mescalero plan came from people who believe that nuclear waste was bad for business. In nearby Ruidoso, population 4,600, the Village Council and the Chamber of Commerce opposed the disposal site.
"I don't fault the Mescaleros for wanting to improve their standard of life," said Joan Bailey, executive director of the Ruidoso Valley Chamber of Commerce. "But this was such a scary proposition. Our economy is 99.9 percent based on tourism. It's not a comfortable mix. I don't quite trust the powers that be who keep saying that it's safe."
More persuasive to the Mescaleros themselves were the arguments of tribal members like Rufina Marie Laws, who ran against Mr. Chino in the last election in 1992. Ms. Laws spoke of a dream of iridescent water running down the mountain and poisoning the people.
In radio commercials broadcast before the referendum, Mr. Geronimo was particularly effective. Speaking in Apache, he said that like his grandfather, who fought the United States Army off and on from 1876 to 1886 with a few determined followers, he would do anything to protect his tribe.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 1995, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Mescalero Apaches' rejection of an agreement to store spent nuclear fuel on their New Mexico reservation rendered a statement by a nuclear industry spokesman about the tribal vote incorrectly. Phillip Bayne, president of the Nuclear Energy Institute, a trade association, said the result of the tribe's referendum "closes out this opportunity to build a private storage site." He did not say it closed out "the" opportunity to build a private storage site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT NUCLEAR ENERGY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT NUCLEAR ENERGY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES; APACHE INDIANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); SKIING (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



67 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Ford's Profits Conclude Banner Year for Big Three

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Feb. 1

 BODY:
By announcing today that it had posted a record profit of $ 5.3 billion for last year, the Ford Motor Company made it official. The Big Three auto makers made more money in 1994 -- almost $ 14 billion -- than ever before.
And Ford's earnings report illustrated how they did it, even though the market for vehicles constituted about a million fewer sales than at its peak in 1986: emphasizing sales of more profitable mini-vans and sport utility vehicles like the Explorer, loading record amounts of overtime on their workers to increase productivity, and cutting other costs throughout the company. 
 For the quarter, Ford earned a record $ 1.56 billion, more than double last year's results of $ 719 million. The results came on sales of $ 33.6 billion, up nearly 21 percent from the comparable quarter a year ago.
Bolstered by a turnaround in Ford's overseas operations, the earnings were in line with analysts' estimates. But investors panicked, possibly because of confusion over a one-time gain of $ 110 million that Ford made in the quarter because of the devaluation of the Mexican peso.
Ford hit a 52-week low of $ 24.50 a share and rose as high as $ 26.125 before finally closing at $ 25.125, down 12.5 cents, in heavy trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
Investors may have also concluded that the industry will set no more records during this economic expansion. Today's report, combined with January sales figures released by some auto makers and another Fed interest-rate rise, underscores that the auto makers have entered treacherous times.
"This is an interesting period," David N. McCammon, Ford's vice president for finance, said. "Sometimes I wish it wasn't quite as interesting."
Like his rivals at General Motors and the Chrysler Corporation and most industry analysts, though, Mr. McCammon said that demand for cars, and the economy in general, remained vigorous. The Federal Reserve would succeed in restraining growth to between 2.5 percent and 3 percent this year, he predicted, meaning that sales should rise and Ford should top its 1994 earnings.
Indeed, Ford projects the recovery could last into 1998, setting a new sales record along the way. "We believe there's still plenty of steam left," Mr. McCammon said.
For the year, the earnings worked out to $ 4.97 a share, compared with $ 2.27 in 1993. Sales rose more than 18 percent, to $ 128.4 billion.
But there were warning signs in the company's report as well.
Analysts said that Ford overproduced light trucks last year, piling them up on dealers' lots. That had the effect of raising 1994 earnings, since the company books a sale when it sells a vehicle to a dealer. But it also created excess inventories that Ford must siphon off by offering rebates and other incentives.
Rebate costs in the fourth quarter averaged $ 860 a vehicle, outpacing the year's average of $ 710 and only slightly less than the $ 865 Ford spent in the fourth quarter of 1993.
Mr. McCammon said Ford was using rebates to help its dealers reduce inventories, since higher interest rates had raised the cost of carrying large stocks. Once rebates are used to help sell vehicles, though, it is hard to remove them. "I don't know if it's temporary or not," he acknowledged.
Mr. McCammon projected incentives in the first quarter would average $ 715, up from $ 695 a year ago. The General Motors Corporation and Chrysler have also said that rebates could rise.
Unlike G.M., Ford continues to generate its greatest profits at home, though its overseas operations rebounded from a loss last year to a gain of $ 784 million. Ford's net profit margins in the United States were a robust 4.2 percent, compared with 2.4 percent overseas.
Over all, Ford's margin of 3.6 percent, narrowly ahead of G.M.'s 3.5 percent, is well short of both companies' goal of 5 percent.
Like its rivals, Ford is hoarding cash to prepare for the next industry downturn. At the end of the quarter, Ford had net cash of $ 4.8 billion compared with $ 1.8 billion a year ago. Ford said that its pension funds were overfinanced by $ 2.5 billion.
Mr. McCammon declined to say how much cash Ford thought would be sufficient to sustain its spending on new car and truck development during the next downturn.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 1995, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about earnings of the Ford Motor Company for the fourth quarter of 1994 and for the year misstated the net profit margin for the year. It was 4.3 percent; 3.6 percent was the margin for the company's automotive operations.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Ford Motor Co. (F,N)" 

Qtr. to Dec 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	33,643,000,000	27,841,000,000	+20.8	Net inc.	1,569,000,000	719,000,000	+118	Sh. earn	1.47	.65		Sh. out.	1,020,000,000	996,000,000		Yr rev.	128,439,000,000	108,521,000,000	+18.3	Net inc.	b5,308,000,000	2,529,000,000	+110	Sh. earn	4.97	2.27		Sh. out.	1,010,000,000	986,000,000	 	
 
b-Included a loss of $ 440 million reflecting a write-off related to the disposition of Granite Savings Bank, formerly First Nationwide Bank.
Share earnings and shares outstanding have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split effective June 6, 1994.
Revenue is total worldwide sales and revenues.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$ 25.125
Down 12.5
 
Graph "A Stock's Bumpy Ride" tracks daily closing prices for the Ford Motor Company since January 1994. Also shown is the annual net income or loss since 1991. (Sources: Datastream, company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; COMPANY REPORTS ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); DEVALUATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES DAVID N MCCAMMON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1995



68 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: More Mexican Anguish Than Gratitude

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Two days after President Clinton announced a huge American-led effort to rescue the Mexican economy, there have still been no marches to the United States Embassy here by Mexicans wishing to show their gratitude.
"Really, we are not so convinced about all this money," said Victor Gonzalez, 31, a street vendor who was trying to sell plastic Flintstone dolls today near the Embassy. 
 "I am not one of those who thinks the United States is giving us this money just because they want Pemex," he said, referring to the state oil company. "But in the end, we are just going to owe more money, and it is money that the people on the street are never going to see."
Despite a widespread sense of relief in Mexico at the $50 billion deal, many Mexicans continue to harbor concerns, resentment and even anger about the American aid.
Their feelings, sampled in interviews today around the Mexican capital and in other parts of the country, underscored a rising anguish at the country's economic straits and growing frustration with its new President, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon.
They also suggested some continuing mistrust about the 1993 trade accord with the United States and Canada. Rather than bringing higher standards of living, many Mexicans say, the North American Free Trade Agreement has coincided with lower real wages, tighter credit and now a probable return to recession and higher inflation.
"Nobody gives a loan without wanting something in return," said Fernando Avila, 34, who was selling cowboy boots at the vast Tepito market near the center of Mexico City.
As finally packaged, the loans and loan guarantees from the United States, the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of International Settlements were probably far less offensive to Mexican sensibilities than the original, all-American plan.
In return for support of the original plan, various members of Congress had demanded that Mexico cool its friendly ties to Cuba, block undocumented migrants from crossing its northern border and bring its minimum wage into line with that of the United States.
An opinion poll published on Monday in the Mexico City newspaper Reforma showed that more than twice as many residents of the capital thought that the original $40 billion loan-guarantee plan would hurt Mexico than thought it would help. In a national telephone survey published on Wednesday by the Mori de Mexico concern -- the kind of sample that generally excludes more nationalistic, lower-income Mexicans -- 80 percent of those asked thought that the deal would compromise the country's sovereignty.
Mr. Clinton has gotten most of the credit in Mexico for fashioning an alternative.
"There is a positive reaction toward Clinton," said a historian and magazine editor, Hector Aguilar Camin. But he added, "The question is still there of what non-explicit or private agreements were made."
In return for the new loans, Mexico put up revenues from its oil exports as collateral and promised austere economic policies in the months ahead. If the Government fails to make adequate progress toward what many economists consider the improbable goals of 1.5 percent economic growth and keeping inflation to 19 percent or lower this year, I.M.F. officials are expected to demand further cuts in government spending and stricter limits on the money supply.
Mexican and American officials said Mexico would also follow through on commitments for greater cooperation with the United States on issues like immigration and drug-enforcement that were tied to the original $40 billion plan.
The United States Ambassador to Mexico, James R. Jones, said in an interview today that he believed that President Zedillo had Mexicans' support to do so and that any conditions from the American Congress might "mess up the political base for that." He said he had also heard "great appreciation for what the President did" among businessmen and officials -- the Mexicans who had the most to lose if Mexico's economic troubles deepened.
Still, a sense that the United States was acting out of more than munificence has seemed to linger among more ordinary Mexicans.
"No one gives you money just because they like you," said Jesus Esparza, 22, a car stereo vendor at the Tepito market. "The United States has a history of trying to cheat us. There are always other interests involved."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (71%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); HISTORY (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



69 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Serb in Western Eyes

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Feb. 2

 BODY:
This week the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, snubbed the American Ambassador to Croatia. The snub would not have been that momentous in the great scheme of Balkan problems were it not that for the last several months, the United States and Western Europe have placed their faith in Mr. Milosevic to bring peace to the area.
The Serbian leader was always an unlikely man for the peacemaking job. His ruthless assertion, from 1987 onward, of Serbian nationalist aspirations in the Albanian-dominated Kosovo area unbalanced the Yugoslav federation, eventually plunging Yugoslavia into a series of devastating wars. 
 During these wars, in Croatia and Bosnia, the Serbs, encouraged by Mr. Milosevic, have sought to establish a homeland stretching from the birthplace of their nation in Kosovo through Serbia and Bosnia to the westernmost edge of their migrations over the centuries, the Croatian town of Knin. In general, outside Serbia, they have killed or thrown out non-Serbs from this proposed "Greater Serbian."
Nonetheless, the United States threw in its lot with Mr. Milosevic in August because the only other serious option -- using military power to oblige the Serbs to compromise or to defeat them -- had been discarded.
The aim was to get Mr. Milosevic to deliver two things: the ruin of the Bosnian Serbs through a crippling economic embargo, and Serbian recognition of the borders of Croatia.
It was in pursuit of the second of these aims that Peter W. Galbraith, the United States Ambassador to Croatia, arranged to go to Belgrade on Tuesday to deliver an American-backed peace plan offering substantial autonomy to the Serbs holding close to one-third of Croatia, in return for their recognition of Croatia's international borders.
But Mr. Milosevic snubbed him, abruptly canceling the planned visit and, in the Ambassador's view, persuading the leaders of the Croatian Serbs to refuse even to look at the plan the previous day.
Even by the abject standards of Western diplomatic efforts in the former Yugoslavia, this amounted to an utter debacle.
It came on the heels of another American failure that demonstrated that Mr. Milosevic has not delivered much in Bosnia either.
Last week, American officials went to the Bosnian Serb stronghold of Pale hoping to persuade the Bosnian Serbs to get serious about peace talks. Apparently unshaken by six months of Mr. Milosevic's less-than-watertight embargo -- prices in Pale are about the same as in Belgrade -- the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, rebuffed the Americans.
"We tried to use Milosevic to marginalize Karadzic," an American official said. "We tried to use Milosevic for progress on Croatia. We even tried to court Karadzic. Now all we are left with is prayer."
The time left for prayer is not great, however. Croatia's President, Franjo Tudjman, has lost patience with the Serbian occupation of close to a third of his country stemming from the 1991 war, and ordered the United Nations troops acting as a buffer to start leaving on March 31. In the absence of a Serbian-Croatian accord before then, a second Croatian war seems likely.
In Bosnia, a four-month cease-fire that is broadly holding expires on April 31. Without a settlement, the war will resume. The Balkans could thus be in flames by the spring.
"In retrospect, I suppose it was absurd to think that Milosevic, the man who started the wars, had undergone a conversion on the road to Damascus," another American official said.
In one sense, however, the attempt to work with Mr. Milosevic has its logic. He is the originator of the conflict, the strongest man in the former Yugoslavia, and the shrewdest politician. If anyone holds a key to ending the fighting, it is he.
But his conversations with several officials suggest that his rock-bottom aims include at least two crucial elements. The first is to hold on to what the United Nations calls Sector East. This is the Serbian-occupied area of Croatia that borders the Danube, is rich in oil and other industries controlled by Mr. Milosevic's allies, and includes Vukovar, the city on which the Serb-dominated Yugoslav Army spent so much devastating ordnance in 1991.
Because the plan Mr. Galbraith was carrying demanded that the Serbs hand this area back to Croatia, Mr. Milosevic snubbed him and persuaded the local Serbian leaders in Knin to do the same.
Mr. Milosevic is still hoping that the British mediator, Lord Owen, will deliver on ideas that territorial swaps with Croatia could leave "Sector East" in Serbian hands.
The second crucial element in Mr. Milosevic's thinking is the Yugoslav Army. Its espousal of a Greater Serbian, its intimate links with the Bosnian Serb military commander, Ratko Mladic, and its continued indirect support for the Serbian war effort in Bosnia set the limits of Mr. Milosevic's Bosnia policy. The Serbian leader will never put the Bosnian Serbs in so tight a corner that they have to cede.
Thus it seems clear that Mr. Milosevic cannot deliver what the West tried to believe he could. He cannot recognize Croatia's borders because he wants at least part of "Sector East," and he cannot undermine the Bosnian Serbs because his army is at one with them.
The lesson, however, has apparently not been learned. This week, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe of France, Lord Owen and Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel of Germany all called for a Milosevic-Tudjman meeting and as a last-ditch means to avoid a wider Balkan war.
Nobody seemed to have a clear idea what the two men would do, but a sense persists that Mr. Milosevic can deliver something. That is what Mr. Galbraith thought, too. The snub, and the record of the last six months, suggest the contrary.

GRAPHIC: Map of the area surrounding Bosnia and Herzegovina shows the current areas of control and the location of Sector East, in Croatia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (73%); YUGOSLAV ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); COHEN, ROGER; GALBRAITH, PETER W (AMB) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



70 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Desarmes Journal;
Rooting Up Fears, Haiti's Farmers Fill the Silos

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DESARMES, Haiti

 BODY:
The sorghum harvest is drawing to a close now, and the fields are filled with children and goats playing in the stubble. The crop may be smaller than anticipated, peasants here in this dirt-poor village in the Artibonite Valley say, but there is reason to celebrate, and the distant sound of music wafts through the hot and dusty afternoon air.
With the grain speculators who once controlled prices no longer able to call on armed bands of enforcers, it is finally safe to begin storing crops until the price rises. To the farmers, the silos they built with their own labor and money but which have stood empty for years are a symbol of their freedom. 
 "The better times have started, now that we have our silos back," said Adonyas Arelien, a 35-year-old farmer and father of five sons. "Soon I will have enough money to afford to send my children back to school and to put my wife in business, and my neighbors will be able to replace their straw roofs with tin."
In the speeches he has made since American troops restored him to power on Oct. 15, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has talked much about liberty, justice and other abstract concepts. Yet to the peasants who account for nearly three quarters of Haiti's seven million people -- with per-capita incomes of less than $300 a year -- the most important aspect of Mr. Aristide's return is that it allows them to dream of escaping economic enslavement.
In this small, dusty village, 315 families banded together in 1986, shortly after the dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier fell. They hoped to get a better deal for the corn, sorghum, peanuts, rice and beans they grow either as tenants or owners of tiny private plots. Their plan was simple: to pool their resources and build a silo to store their crops until market prices rose, and thus earn enough money to stay out of debt.
But to the local middlemen who dominated the grain trade here, the construction of a 50-ton silo represented a clear threat to their power and prosperity. Traditionally the middlemen would buy crops at harvest time, when prices were lowest, and then lend the farmers money, at interest of 20 percent a month or more, to pay for seed and to tide them over until the next harvest.
"This is a universal problem in Haiti, farmers wanting a greater return for their work but getting ripped off," said Robert E. Maguire, a visiting scholar at Johns Hopkins University and an expert on the Haitian peasantry.
With their own money and supplies and a $17,000 grant from the Inter-American Foundation, an agency of the United States Government, the farmers finished building a four-chamber cinderblock silo by the middle of 1987 that looked much like a conventional warehouse. But in November, more than a score of local gunmen attacked the silo and set it ablaze. The gunmen were members of a group called San Maman, or "The Motherless Ones" and their attack was led by the area's leading grain speculator.
"We had just finished storing the corn harvest and hadn't even made our first sale," Jean-Remy Azor, a peasant leader, recalled as he stood in front of the ruins of the silo, overgrown with weeds and pockmarked with bullet holes.
About 16.5 tons of corn and seed stock for the next planting were lost in the raid. In addition, Mr. Azor and other leaders of the peasant cooperative were arrested after they went on the radio and identified the attackers; they were released only after human rights groups protested.
The farmers were discouraged but determined to press ahead. They decided to build four smaller silos on separate sites, reasoning that it would be harder to destroy all of them. The units were finished in time for limited use toward the end of the harvest season in February 1991, just as Mr. Aristide took office.
The higher prices they got for the crops they stored gave the cooperative members a small taste of what the future might bring.
The Aristide Government was overthrown in a military coup on Sept. 30, 1991, just before the start of the corn harvest. "The motherless ones" returned and promptly raided the warehouses again. Finding them empty, they did damage to the smaller silos. Leaders of the cooperative, fearing an attack, had removed farm equipment from the buildings. But the renewal of military rule and the rise of terrorist squads forced many farmers into hiding and paralyzed the group.
With Mr. Aristide back in power, association members are already talking about building four more silos, rebuilding their credit fund so they can buy more crops, and learning more sophisticated growing techniques. They have been able to store some of the sorghum harvest because they had secretly hidden away money during the military dictatorship, and they expect to be operating at full throttle in time for the corn harvest in October.
As for the grain speculators and their hired guns, they are still around, Mr. Azor acknowledged. "But they are the ones who are afraid now, and walk around with their heads down," he said with a smile. "The people are ready to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With terror gone, Haitian farmers feel free to fill their silos again. A farm leader, Jean-Remy Azor, foreground in baseball cap, stood outside a silo built after another was wrecked by local gunmen in 1987. (Larry Rohter/The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Desarmes, Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; DES MOINES (IOWA); HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GRAIN FARM LABOR (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MISC GRAIN FARMING (78%); FAMILY (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



71 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: New Homes Off in Sales In December

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Sales of new homes fell in December for the second consecutive month, the Commerce Department said today, signaling that steadily rising interest rates have brought the housing market to the verge of a slowdown for 1995.
After a strong 1994, in which sales were at a six-year high, analysts say bulging inventories of unsold homes and costlier mortgages foreshadow a sales decline of around 5 percent this year. 
 "Until the fall, sales were good because of the strong economy, but eventually these higher rates just caught up," said David Berson, an economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae.
The Federal Reserve pushed up interest rates six times last year, sending mortgage rates up more than two full percentage points. On Wednesday, the Fed raised short-term rates again, aiming to slow the economic expansion to a rate it considers noninflationary.
Real estate analysts said the move would further slow the interest-rate-sensitive housing market.
The Commerce Department said December sales eased six-tenths of a percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 637,000, down a sharp 22 percent from the rate of 817,000 in December 1993. The drop followed a big revised plunge of 9.6 percent in November to 641,000. Previously, the department said November sales were down only 2.5 percent at a rate of 693,000.
Nonetheless, for all of 1994, sales of new homes totaled 670,000, little changed from 666,000 in 1993 but still the best sales year since 1988, when 676,000 new homes were sold, the department said.
The overall economy is forecast to slow this year from 1994's 4 percent expansion rate.
However, the Labor Department's latest report on the jobs market showed little hint of an impending slowdown. It said today that new claims for unemployment pay inched up by only 1,000 last week to 326,000.
"As of late January, we are seeing the same kinds of employment opportunity that we saw late last year," said Dan Seto, an economist with Nikko Securities.
The January employment report, to be released on Friday, is expected to show that 230,000 new jobs were created, following 256,000 in December.
Inventories of completed but unsold new homes have begun to grow. At December's sales rate, 6.7 months' worth of homes were available to prospective buyers, the department said, the biggest supply since September 1991's 7.4 months.
"With the prime rate rising with every Fed hike, this spells trouble" because it raises builders' costs, said David Seiders, economist for the National Association of Home Builders. Most banks raised their prime rates by half a percentage point, to 9 percent, immediately after the Fed's move on Wednesday.
Mr. Seiders said sales of new homes were likely to drop between 4 and 5 percent this year, while construction of houses would shrink about 8 percent.
Long-term mortgage rates have risen from 6.74 percent in October 1993 to 8.94 percent this week. However, that is down from 9.13 percent last week, according to a national survey released today. The decline was the first retreat below 9 percent in more than three months.
One-year adjustable-rate mortgages had an average initial rate of 6.75 percent, unchanged from last week, according to the figures from the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac.
Fifteen-year mortgages averaged 8.59 percent this week, down from 8.76 percent last week.
The rates do not include add-on fees known as points.
December sales of new homes weakened in every region except the South, where they gained 15.1 percent, to 312,000 a year. In the Northeast, they plunged 23.4 percent, to a rate of 49,000, and in the Midwest they fell 8.9 percent, to 123,000 a year. In the West, sales dropped 11.6 percent, to a rate of 152,000 a year.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "New-Home Sales" shows new private homes sold suring month from July '93-Dec. '94. (Source: Commerce Department); "Prices of New Homes" shows median price for new homes in thousands of dollars from July '93-Dec. '94. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; SALES; INTEREST RATES; PRICES; INDUSTRY PROFILES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRIME RATES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); 

PERSON: DAVID SEIDERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



72 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: A Makeover for Electric Utilities;
Power Industry, Facing Competition, Struggles With Change

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
The prospect of declining utility bills, along with the examples of successful deregulation in airlines and long-distance telephones, is powering a drive to introduce real competition to electricity production around the country.
With many power users capable of going around the system to cut costs, this revolution already brewing in several states seems inevitable and, to many economists, quite desirable. 
 But transforming "this staid, old industry into a nimble giant," as Irwin Stelzer, director of regulatory policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, put it, will require wrenching changes and challenge a variety of interests, from environmental groups to utility stockholders to traditional power plant builders.
"We're cutting through 100 years of sedimentary layers in trying to make the market for power work better," said Gary J. Lavine, senior vice president at the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation in Syracuse.
The central quandary is that much of the existing investment in electrical power -- on everything from bread-and-butter coal and nuclear plants to exotic windmill farms and high-efficiency light bulbs -- is more expensive than the cost of starting over with a clean sheet of paper. As a result, utilities contend, the only way to provide big electricity savings quickly would be to deny investors a fair return on hundreds of billions of dollars of financial commitments that with hindsight should never have been made. That, they say, would be unconscionable.
"Regulators made promises to investors, and government has a moral obligation to honor them," said Alfred E. Kahn, an economist at Cornell University and a former chairman of the New York Public Service Commission.
Other problems flow from the same central challenge. The big industrial users of electricity would be in a position to "cherry pick" inexpensive sources of power, leaving small business and residential consumers with even higher monthly bills to support the existing grid.
Similarly, competition could undermine energy efficiency efforts that had been shielded from market forces. "Conservation doesn't sell unless it pays back the cost in a year or two," said Ralph Cavanagh, an economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
Nearly all electric utilities are state-regulated monopolies, and have been so for most of this century. Electricity was a "natural monopoly," it was assumed, where a single enterprise could produce and distribute power more inexpensively than many different competitors for the same customers. That meant regulation would be needed to protect consumers from price gouging. In turn, investors needed laws guaranteeing a fair return on investments deemed necessary and prudent.
The idea of realistic alternatives is relatively new. The economists Paul Joskow and Richard Schmalenzee of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology made the case in the 1970's that power generation, in contrast to long-distance transmission and local distribution, would benefit from new entrants. Congress inched in this direction after the energy crisis hit, requiring utilities to buy power from independent producers at what was assumed was the relatively high "avoided cost" of producing it themselves from a new power plant. That led to some extravagant investments in futuristic but costly alternatives like windmills and solar energy.
But today new power plants can be much less expensive than many old ones. Most utilities get the bulk of their power from large coal and nuclear operations at costs that are two or three times as high as power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both make use of waste heat and take advantage of the current glut of natural gas. Thus neither the utilities nor their customers are currently getting the windfall from better technology and cheaper fuel.
The dam may be about to break, though. In upstate New York, the Alcan Aluminum Corporation won permission to buy electricity directly from a nearby independent supplier building a gas-fired plant. Long Island is pressing a more radical approach, hoping to create a government-owned power company that could buy electricity from independents at a third of the price charged by the Long Island Lighting Company.
Meanwhile, California state regulators, the source of much of the innovation in the field, are considering the most systematic assault on the retail electricity monopolies. Egged on by large industrial electricity buyers, the California Public Utilities Commission proposed last April to free power generation from regulation.
And the resulting controversy, which may force California to slow its timetable, is a preview of what is likely to happen in New England and the mid-Atlantic states, where there are also high electricity rates and many price-sensitive customers.
Some environmentalists fear that worthwhile goals will be lost when short-term bottom-line calculations rule. For instance, the failure of consumers to invest in cost-effective energy conservation ranging from commercial lighting to home insulation led regulators in several states to allow utilities to subsidize individual improvements and then pass on the cost as a surcharge on all consumers' bills.
That would not be possible in a world of free markets, said Mr. Cavanagh of the Natural Resources Defense Council, unless the commission added systemwide "green charges" to the cost of using the utility wires.
At the same time, stockholders in the regulated utilities have good reason to fear a full-scale deregulation of power production. Consider Southern California Edison, which serves much of the huge Los Angeles-Orange County-San Bernardino metropolitan region outside the city of Los Angeles itself from its home base in Rosemead. It is one of the three big California utilities caught between the rock of old commitments to high-priced electricity and the hard place of low competitive prices.
Southern California Edison is locked into long-term contracts from independent producers of everything from co-generation plants to geothermal operations to wind farms that oblige the utility to buy a third of its power at nearly 9 cents a kilowatt-hour. And it is allowed to charge roughly 5 cents a kilowatt-hour to earn a fair return on its own investment in power production, including part of its investment in nuclear operations. All told, the cost of power to Edison today is about 7 cents a kilowatt-hour.
Thus Edison estimated that it would take a one-time payment of $9.3 billion -- or the equivalent plus interest for many years -- to honor its long-term power contracts, provide acceptable dividends to its stockholders and still sell power at a competitive price that could be as low as 4 cents.
That $9.3 billion is double the stockholders' stake in the company. Unless regulators or the courts permit Southern California Edison to break its contracts with high-cost independent suppliers or pass on much of the $9.3 billion bill to captive customers, the utility would be technically bankrupt. While no one expects the state to push its utilities to the wall, the economic consequences are real.
And Southern California Edison is not alone. William Hogan of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government estimates that the transition cost for electric utilities nationwide could exceed $200 billion, or more than double the total equity in the industry.
Regulators could -- and those in both California and New York have hinted that they would -- pay off the utilities by imposing hefty surcharges on the use of the utilities' distribution systems. Peter Bradford, the recently retired chairman of the New York Public Service Commission, envisions a "grand bargain," in which stockholders would be assured most of their money that way in return for cooperation in restructuring the industry.
A heated debate has already begun over whether a restructured power market should look more like today's long-distance telephone market, with big companies wooing individual retail customers, or like today's commodities exchanges, with anonymous buyers and sellers setting the competitive price paid by all.
But even the grand bargain is no panacea. For one thing, it would defeat what economists see as a primary objective of deregulation. "Prices should fall to reflect actual costs," said Mr. Stelzer of the American Enterprise Institute. Otherwise, he said, consumers will continue to have perverse incentives to use the wrong sources of energy.
More to the political point, shuffling the "stranded costs" to the distribution system would not satisfy customers who care how much they pay, not whom they pay. It would not stop big industrial customers from threatening to move to lower-cost states if they are denied inexpensive power. Nor would it inhibit the push for municipal electricity companies able to bypass the regulated monopolies.
Is there any way through the thicket of competing interests? To Mr. Bradford, all this points toward a compromise in which utilities are paid part of their stranded costs, but "not 100 cents on the dollar." Utilities may have a strong moral case for full compensation, he says, but the only realistic hope is to allow "a lot of room for judgment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wind turbines at Altamont Pass, Calif., are among the alternative means of generating electricity. Such futuristic but costly devices would be threatened if utilities are deregulated, as many are demanding. (Mickey Pfleger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (69%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (69%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); NEW YORK PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MONOPOLIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PUBLIC UTILITIES ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (93%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (93%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); MONOPOLIZATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



73 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Report Details Brush With Insolvency

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Haunted by lingering investor uncertainty, Mexican financial markets lost ground today as a central bank report showed how close the nation had come to insolvency before a new international assistance package was announced in Washington earlier this week.
The peso, after gaining strength for the last two days, weakened slightly to 5.455 to the dollar, down from 5.375 on Wednesday. The Mexican stock market, unable to sustain a rally, slumped a further 2.7 percent today to close just under 1,944 -- 56 points below the 2,000 level many investors consider an important indicator of market health. 
 The Mexican central bank reported late Wednesday night that its foreign currency reserves had dwindled during January to $3.48 billion, a drop of more than 43 percent since the end of December, when reserves totaled nearly $6.15 billion.
The Government had previously denied a report in The International Herald Tribune on Monday that the reserves had fallen to $2 billion.
However, financial analysts here and in New York say that the $3.48 billion figure does not truly represent the central bank's current assets because some of the money may be tied up in accounts with restrictive terms. Furthermore, the bank reported that last month it had to draw down $2.1 billion from the lines of credit made available by the United States, Canada and other nations on Jan. 3.
The report made clear that Mexico had come close to going broke before President Clinton announced the new rescue package on Tuesday. Economists said the $3.48 billion in remaining reserves would have been enough to cover only two and a half to three weeks of imports. In addition, the Government knew that it was obligated to pay off more than $1 billion worth of short-term bonds this week. The bonds, called tesobonos, are indexed to the value of the dollar.
Alluding to Mexican economic officials, Jorge O. Mariscal, vice president of the Latin American equity group at Goldman, Sachs, said: "They were very close to having to really come up with something else. This week they may have solved half of the problem, which is the financing of tesobonos. But the other half is the lack of credibility of Mexican institutions."
By Monday, Mexico will have available the first installments of more than $50 billion in assistance brokered by President Clinton. This money is expected to come from the first part of a $17.8 billion line of credit approved by the International Monetary Fund late Wednesday.
[European financial officials were quoted in Frankfurt as saying Thursday that five leading European nations had abstained from the approval vote as a sign of displeasure at being given only an hour's notice of the new rescue plan by the United States.]
Investors will be watching next Tuesday's regularly scheduled auction of Government bonds to see whether the new assistance helps Mexico's credit standing. The Government canceled this week's auction after President Clinton declared that he was abandoning his efforts to get a Mexico rescue package through Congress, but before he announced his alternative.
Interest rates for the bonds had reportedly risen above 30 percent on Tuesday morning, persuading officials to cancel the sale.
The auction next Tuesday will be seen as a test of investors' confidence, both in terms of how many bonds are sold and the kind of inter est rates that investors demand. The current interest rate for the 91-day bond is 24.98 percent.
While the markets calmed down this week, financial analysts said they were unsure about the willingness of Mexico to tighten its budget and monetary policies, and uneasy that the Government had not yet announced a new policy for setting the peso's exchange rate.
American depository receipts of Telefonos de Mexico, a bellwether for the Mexican equity market, closed today at $33.50 a share, down 75 cents, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The continuing uneasiness was apparent in a move Wednesday by Standard & Poor's to lower its ratings one notch on Mexico's long-term foreign-currency debt, to BB, Mexico's peso-denominated debt was similarly lowered, to single-A.
However, S.& P. also removed Mexican debt from the credit watch it had imposed on Dec. 23, three days after the Government set off the current crisis by devaluing the peso. "The removal of all ratings from credit and the stable foreign currency outlook are based on the stabilizing effect of the $51 billion multilateral financial support agreement," the rating agency said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); APPROVALS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



74 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Report Backs U.S. Program For Computer Development

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
A Federal program begun three years ago to support the development of advanced computers and computer networks is essential to the nation's half-trillion-dollar information technology industry, a report to be issued today by the National Academy of Sciences contends.
The Government is spending $1.1 billion annually on the program, known as the High Performance Computing and Communications Initiative, which has been cited by Congressional Republicans as a program that could be eliminated to offset proposed tax cuts. 
 But some of the nation's leading computer researchers at corporations and universities, who prepared the report, argue that Government support for research is crucial for the American economy to remain competitive.
"There is a great threat to the economic future of the country as corporations continue to retract their research horizons," said Larry Smarr, director of the National Center for Supercomputer Applications and a member of the committee that prepared the report.
The panel gives credit to the Federal program, which began in 1992 and is planned to continue for two more years, for having helped bring about wide acceptance by the industry of massively parallel computers and for having built the advanced computer networks that are the backbone of the Internet, a collection of computer networks used for research, education, commerce and entertainment.
Among the recommendations of the panel was that financing be focused on a new class of distributed information systems that would allow people around the country to manipulate large data bases that might be spread over various sites.
The panel also recommended that support be continued for a series of research goals known as Grand Challenges -- thorny scientific problems that are intended to push the limits of computer technology.
In light of the debate over national industrial policy, the panel called for the elimination of direct project financing for the development of commercial hardware by computer vendors.
That has been a bitterly contested issue: The critics of Government support for new technology development have said that it amounts to handing out "pork barrel" contracts to various Congressional districts.
One prominent critic of the program said he was pleased with the shift in direction.
"Part of what's wrong with this program is that we absolutely should not be funding any commercial development of any kind," said T. J. Rodgers, chief executive of the Cypress Semiconductor Corporation in San Jose, Calif. "We're hurting American companies."
But Mr. Rodgers said he agreed with the idea of financing dozens or hundreds of small research programs at universities to support advanced education and research.
But Mr. Smarr, the committee member, said he was worried about the "slash and burn" approach to Federal support for scientific research and technology development. He said it could be decades before the country realized what had been lost.
"If we lose the information technology, and all we do in this country in the future is flip hamburgers, no one will remember the reason why it happened," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CY (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (62%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); FEDERAL AID (US); RESEARCH COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN T J RODGERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



75 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Withdraw Funds From Journalism Center in Budapest

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
The United States Information Agency has moved to stop financing a journalism training program in Budapest that has been run by an American university for four years.
The decision has led to complaints by American journalists and the program's administrators that the agency is infringing on academic freedom and journalistic independence. 
The program, administered by the College of Journalism of the University of Maryland, is one of several in Eastern Europe aimed at developing an independent press.
They are administered by the American sponsors but financed largely with United States Government funds channeled through private agencies.
The college in Maryland said this week that it had notified its employees in Budapest that it would have to close the center because of the U.S.I.A. action.
Joseph D. Duffey, director of the agency, denied that he was interfering with academic freedom. He said he moved to cancel Government funds for the program last week after receiving complaints from the United States Embassy in Budapest.
"I don't think the issue is academic freedom," Mr. Duffey said. "There are questions about whether the quality of the program is up to the standards that were set in the early years. They are fair questions in terms of accountability to the Congress and the American public."
Because of the college's response, however, Mr. Duffey plans to review the facts and ask a respected journalist to evaluate the program, the American Journalism Center in Budapest.
Reese Cleghorn, the journalism dean at the University of Maryland, said the university had been forced to close its center because Mr. Duffey had withdrawn the funds.
On Wednesday Mr. Cleghorn sent government officials and journalists a statement protesting the U.S.I.A.'s decision, calling the move an attempted "takeover" of the center that "would be an infringement upon academic freedom and the independence of a journalism center."
Mr. Cleghorn included a copy of a letter protesting the action from Gregory Favre, president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Mr. Favre said he was registering a "vigorous protest" on behalf of his organization, which represents more than 850 editors.
Kati Marton, the chairwoman of the Committee to Protect Journalists, also wrote to urge Mr. Duffey to reconsider because of the "danger that government intervention in any aspect of our profession represents."
Mr. Cleghorn's statement included a detailed response to assertions by officials at the Embassy in Budapest. Among other things, documents released by both sides showed that the Embassy had complained in January that the university had run the center with "long-distance management" and then installed new managers who "lack competency."
The statement denied those assertions and said U.S.I.A. and the Agency for International Development "made a clumsy effort in the fall of 1994 to take direct control of our center." The complaints began when that effort failed, the statement added.
Mr. Duffey said the Government was not assuming control over the center but was merely withdrawing government funds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (95%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY; UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (94%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY; UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (94%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY; UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (95%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FOREIGN AID; JOURNALISM SCHOOLS JOURNALISM (91%); WRITERS (90%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; DUFFEY, JOSEPH D JOSEPH D DUFFEY (95%); REESE CLEGHORN (85%); GREGORY FAVRE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



76 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Benetton Touches a Nerve and Germans Protest

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KASSEL, Germany

 BODY:
The windows of Heinz Hartwich's four clothing stores here have blood-red tape blocking out the name of his former supplier, the Italian clothing manufacturer Benetton Group S.p.A.
At the center of the X's formed by the tape, a sign says in German: "No more Benetton, because we condemn the scandalous advertising using misery, war, sickness and death." 
 Benetton's advertisements, which have shown, for example, a man's arm tattooed with the words "H.I.V. positive," have also prompted protests in France, Italy, Britain and the United States in recent years. But they provoked the most conspicuous backlash in Germany recently, reflecting this country's intense sensitivities -- and guilt -- over war and death.
Because of the company's provocative print and billboard advertisements, Mr. Hartwich says that customers have boycotted his store and cost him almost $600,000 in lost sales in the last year. That is why, he said, he refused to pay for an equal amount of merchandise from Benetton and tried to sever relations with the company.
"If I continue selling Benetton clothes, I would go bankrupt," said Mr. Hartwich, who has been sued by the giant clothes maker for not paying his bills.
Mr. Hartwich was one of about 70 German Benetton licensees who met in the city of Mainz in January to discuss what to do about a drop of more than 30 percent in sales at almost 150 Benetton outlets licensed among them. They blamed public protests over Benetton's advertisements, which mix tragedy with mercantilism, for the fall-off.
The company's advertisements, which are produced in-house, have in recent years included photographs of a war cemetery, an oil-soaked sea-bird, a dying AIDS patient, children laboring in South America, and most recently the bloody uniform of a Croatian soldier. Some of the ads have appeared in Europe but not the United States.
Some other Benetton store owners from Italy, Spain, France and Sweden also attended the meeting of the "rebels," as members of the group called themselves.
"It is using human tragedy and suffering to sell clothes; I think that's totally cynical and without feeling," said Ulfert Engels, a Kassel lawyer who is defending Mr. Hartwich against the lawsuit by Benetton. "If you are against child labor, poverty, war, fine, take out all the ads you want. But don't put your company logo on it."
Mr. Engels now represents more than 50 rebellious Benetton retailers in Europe, most of them German, and said he added about two new clients daily. He said some of his clients had received death threats or had their store windows smashed with rocks.
"Mr. Engels is trying to generate a trial by media," said Maria Galante, a spokeswoman for Benetton. She said other loyal Benetton store owners in Germany were complaining that the bad publicity was hurting their sales.
"We're getting 10 phone calls a day by store owners who do not agree with this media circus," Ms. Galante said. "The silent majority is being ruined by the press."
Benetton officials at the company's home offices in Treviso, Italy, contend that the retail uprising in Germany was provoked by the store owners' own financial problems and business mismanagement, and not Benetton's advertisements. Sales have not fallen as far as the licensees report, the company said, but have actually risen when measured by the number of items bought.
Mr. Hartwich said his troubles began in March 1993, when he arrived at his store on Wilhelmsstrasse to find it spray-painted in red with the words "No business using sickness and refugees." In the following months, he said, he found the door locks to his stores filled with glue and protesters passing out leaflets with such slogans as "I buy at the United Colors of Benetton because I'm crazy about war."
It is not difficult to understand why many Germans object to Benetton ads. Fifty years after the end of World War II, Germany remains haunted by the two world wars it started and of the deaths of millions of Jews in Nazi concentration camps. Germans also complain that the nation's international image is tarnished by a tiny minority of neo-Nazis and skinheads.
A poll last year by the German weekly magazine Der Spiegel found that 84 percent of Germans surveyed considered Benetton's ads distasteful. Mr. Hartwich showed a typical letter he had received.
Albrecht A. Reinhold wrote that his family had spent up to $2,400 a year on Benetton clothing, but no longer. "Because of the aggressive, tasteless and largely damaging advertising," he wrote, "we have decided not to buy any more Benetton products."
One ad Mr. Hartwich cited for insensitivity showed the "H.I.V. Positive" tattoo.
"This reminded us of the number they tattooed onto Jews in the concentration camps," he said. "How can you combine such horrible tragedies with trying to sell clothes?"
Mr. Hartwich also accused Benetton of hypocrisy in its ad featuring a bird drenched with oil during the Persian Gulf war. "At the same time," he said, "it was spending millions of dollars funding Grand Prix racing that is polluting the atmosphere."
For Benetton, the protests and prospect of a long court battle come as the company's profits have been dampened by price-cutting and the larger recession on the Continent. Germany, which is its largest European market, had about 600 shops as recently as three years ago. There are now about 500, according to the dissident store owners, and with the drop in demand some say the German market will only be able to support 200 stores.
Four other lawsuits have now been filed in German courts against other Benetton store owners for nonpayment, Mr. Engels said. Benetton licensees say another four lawsuits have been filed in France and more are expected in Spain and Italy.
Mr. Hartwich and Mr. Engels contended that Benetton did not care that much about the protests because its corporate strategy was to reduce the number of outlets in Germany. In the United States and Britain, Benetton has switched from a vast network of small franchises to fewer, larger stores, many owned by the company itself.
"Small shop owners are being squeezed like you'd wring out a washcloth," Mr. Hartwich said. "We're trying to get together because we now see it as our only chance to survive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advertisements by Benetton, the apparel maker, like this one showing a man tattooed "H.I.V. positive," have drawn an outcry in Germany. (Benetton) (pg. D1); "If I continue selling Benetton clothes, I would go bankrupt," said Heinz Hartwich, who posted signs at his stores assailing Benetton's ads. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BEN (BIT) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MAINZ, GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: BENETTON GROUP SPA BENETTON GROUP SPA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENETTON GROUP SPA

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MAINZ, GERMANY (56%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; ADVERTISING; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); SALES AIDS & HIV (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); BOYCOTTS (70%); LAWYERS (67%); CHILD LABOR (67%); 

PERSON: HARTWICH, HEINZ; ENGELS, ULFERT; NASH, NATHANIEL C HEINZ HARTWICH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



77 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Close Mixed On Slow Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Government securities traded mixed yesterday in thin volume as investors remained worried about inflation despite the Federal Reserve's increase of short-term interest rates by half a percentage point on Wednesday.
Traders fretted about whether the rate increase, the seventh in a year, would be enough to subdue future inflation. And there was caution ahead of the scheduled release today of the latest national employment data, along with a heavy supply of $40 billion in new Government debt coming up at next week's auction. 
 The 30-year bond rose 2/32 , to a price of 978/32 to yield 7.74 percent, unchanged from Wednesday. Shorter maturities were mixed, with the rate on a three-month security down seven basis points and a six-month unchanged at 6.16 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, described the market yesterday as "moving sideways, with very small price increases and decreases across the various maturities." He added: "We saw the market make major adjustments after the Fed move on Wednesday, and today there was a little bit of fine-tuning taking place after some early data. But really, the market is looking ahead to the employment report."
He also said heavy supply could be a concern when the Treasury's refunding got under way next week.
The forecast for today's employment numbers is in the moderate range, but the market will probably focus on any increase in wages, Mr. Alexy said, adding that "there is a seasonal bias for wages to go up at the beginning of every new quarter."
Traders said the market might have been a little overextended before the Fed rate increase was announced on Wednesday. Even though the move had been widely expected, bonds sold off.
While some investors sold to take profits, others suggested that there was also selling on the terse policy statement that accompanied the Fed's announcement, which signaled that more monetary tightenings were almost certain to come later this year.
The Fed said yesterday that it was adopting a policy of making formal announcements of decisions at meetings of its Federal Open Market Committee.
In when-issued trading late yesterday, the three-year note was offered at a price to yield 7.54 percent, a slight improvement over the previous day, while a 10-year note was unchanged at 7.66 percent. The when-issued long bond also improved a bit, as the yield dropped a basis point, to 7.69 percent.
Yesterday, the Treasury sold $17.25 billion of new one-year bills at an average rate at auction of 6.59 percent, down from 6.86 percent last month, and the highest yield since Nov. 11, when it was 6.09 percent.
In the municipal bond market, where investors are beginning to find prices a little too rich as a result of a supply squeeze, prices dropped and yields, which move in the opposite direction, rose for the first time in days.
The Bond Buyer's index of 40 municipal issues showed the average yield to maturity up a basis point, to 6.65 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a new one-year bill:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 93.337
Discounted Rate . . . 6.59%
Coupon Yield . . . 7.03%
High Price . . . 93.357
Discounted Rate . . . 6.57%
Coupon Yield . . . 7.01%
Low Price . . . 93.337
Discounted Rate . . . 6.59%
Coupon Yield . . . 7.03%
Accepted at low price . . . 76%
Total applied for . . . $51,324,370
Accepted . . . $17,331,346
Noncompetitive . . . $1,643,903
 
The one-year bills mature on Feb. 8, 1996.
 
Graphs: "Tax-Exempt Yields"shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Oct. '94-Feb. '95.;j "1-Year Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate in percent from Oct. '93-Feb. '95. (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; AUCTIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CLARE SHORT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



78 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Will Slow Output and Cut 7,000 Jobs

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
Buffeted by continued weakness in the airline industry, the Boeing Company said yesterday that it would reduce production of two models of jetliners and eliminate 7,000 more jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force.
Both the production cuts and the job cuts had been widely anticipated. In the last two weeks, USAir Group, Continental Airlines, Air France and All Nippon Airways all said they would either cancel or delay orders. But the number of job cuts exceeded most estimates, even though analysts said the production cutbacks were smaller than expected and appeared to mark a bottom for Boeing. 
 The company's work force will be reduced over the course of the year, mainly through layoffs, while the production cuts will occur toward the end of the year.
Most of the cuts will be at Boeing's plants in the Seattle area, where the company will eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 7.9 percent of the work force there. But local economists predicted that the cuts would slow but not stop economic growth in the Puget Sound area, which is no longer dominated by Boeing as it was in the 1970's and earlier decades.
Boeing's shares rose 37.5 cents yesterday, closing at $46.25 on the New York Stock Exchange. Aircraft industry analysts said the company's fortunes should improve as the airline industry picks up worldwide and as United States airlines are forced to replace aging jets because of increasingly strict noise regulations.
Aside from the latest round of jobs, Boeing had already eliminated 26,000 jobs in the last two years, reducing its work force to 117,331.
"These job reductions are higher than we anticipated just a few weeks ago," Frank A. Shrontz, the chairman and chief executive of Boeing,
said in a statement. "Since the beginning of the year, several customers came to us asking to postpone airplane deliveries because of the continued softness of the airline industry. Following a series of discussions with these customers, we decided to reduce production rates on the 737 and 767 airplanes."
Boeing said it would cut production of the 737, its smallest plane, to 7 aircraft a month, starting in November, from the current rate of 8.5 a month. Production of the midsized 767 will decline to 3.5 planes a month in December after rising as planned to a rate of 4 a month in April.
But Boeing also said it planned to increase production of its 747 jumbo jet to three a month in the second half of 1996 from its current rate of two a month.
Wolfgang Demisch, an analyst with BT Securities, said many analysts had been expecting Boeing to reduce production of its 747 and 757 planes along with that of the 737, so yesterday's report was better than expected.
Around the world, airlines report record passenger traffic and, at least outside the United States, solid profits, he said. "While the domestic airlines are not yet out of the woods, the overall picture is one of strong convalescence," he added.
Steve Lewins, an analyst with Gruntal & Company, said that the canceled orders reflected problems at individual airlines and that the industry's recovery, while slow, should continue.
William B. Whitlow, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, said that he had expected job cuts of 5,000 in the Puget Sound area rather than the 6,500 that were announced, but that he thought some of the cuts reflected improved productivity.
In addition to the Seattle area cuts, Boeing said total employment at its helicopters division in the Philadelphia area would be reduced by about 800 jobs, while employment in Wichita, Kan., was expected to decline by about 500.
The work force at other Boeing sites will increase by 800, the company said, much of it related to work on the space station, the recent acquisition of Litton Precision Gear by a Boeing subsidiary, and a contract to supply communications technology to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
 
 
Trouble on Test Flight
 By Bloomberg Business News
 SEATTLE, Feb. 2 -- A new Boeing 777 jetliner had to make an emergency landing after a rapid loss of cabin pressure during a test flight, the company said.
The failure of an air-conditioning duct clamp was blamed for the problem, which left seven crew members with decompression sickness. Boeing said the cause of the damage was under investigation.
The test plane had logged 450 hours of flight time. Boeing said the first 777 delivery remained set for May to United Airlines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (57%); AF (AMS) (57%); ANA (LSE) (57%); 9202 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (96%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (57%); ANA HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NEW YORK JETS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO NEW YORK JETS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRODUCTION AIRLINES (94%); LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR FORCE (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%); NOISE POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



79 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Climb As Earnings Draw Focus

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
A day after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates, the stock market rose in earnest through most of the session, with little of the volatility of recent sessions.
Traders said yesterday's stock session was an extension of the rally in the last half-hour of trading on Wednesday, which followed the Fed's announcement that it was raising the Federal funds rate by half a percentage point, to 6 percent. Market speculation has already turned to what the Fed will do next. 
 High interest rates hurt share prices by raising corporate borrowing costs and making fixed-income instruments more attractive than stocks.
But if there is only one rate increase for the rest of the year, then "that could be bullish for stocks," said Edward Laux, senior managing director at the Chicago Corporation. "People are going to conclude that the Fed thinks the economy can grow reasonably well with rates that are relatively low compared to seven years ago or even 17 years ago."
Analysts also said that with President Clinton's Mexico rescue package appearing to stabilize the peso and uncertainty over the Fed's rate action dispelled, traders could again focus on fourth-quarter corporate profits, which are being reported at unexpectedly high levels.
Frank Teixeira, vice president for market analysis at Merrill Lynch, said that from a technical standpoint the market seemed poised for a rally that could last for several days. He said that the put-call ratio, the advance-decline ratio, and the price for Standard & Poor's 500 futures all indicated that "we're set up for a nice upward move."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 23.21 points, to 3,870.77, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 2.39 points, to 472.79. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 5.33 points, to 763.64.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was below normal, with 322.1 million shares changing hands, about 3.6 percent less than this year's daily average of 334 million shares.
Bank stocks rose because of the higher interest rates banks can now charge for loans. First Interstate Bancorp, for example, rose 2 1/8, to 75 7/8. Retailers reported strong sales but in a clearance month that is unlikely to post strong profits. Still, shares of the Dayton Hudson Corporation rose 1 7/8, to 72 1/8.
Semiconductor stocks continued their gains, with the Intel Corporation's shares rising 19/16 , to 723/16 , and Texas Instruments Inc. advancing 1 3/4, to 71 3/8.
Some companies reported strong earnings. The ITT Corporation rose 3 1/2, to 92 1/2, after reporting an increase in operating profits for the fourth quarter of 19 percent. The Scott Paper Company rose for a second day after it reported a fourth-quarter profit of $1.13 a share compared with a loss of $5.01 a share. Scott rose 3 1/8, to 73 3/4.
Class A shares of Pacificare Health Systems, a chain of health maintenance organizations, rose 4, to 69 1/2, after the company reported a first-quarter rise in profit of 33 percent, to 71 cents a share.
Shares of the Times Mirror Company fell 3 1/8, to 20 1/4, after the media group reported poor fourth-quarter profit and indicated that its first-quarter earnings will decline. Times Mirror also cut its dividend.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 1.18 points, to 257.18, with advancing stocks outnumbering decliners, 1,295 to 901. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 1.53 points, to 438.45.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 22 rose, led by the International Paper Company, which rose 1, to 73 3/8. Of the 500 component stocks that make up the S.& P. 500, 289 rose, led by the AT&T Corporation, whose shares rose 3/4, to 50 1/4.
The most active stock, at 7.8 million shares, was that of the EMC Corporation, a developer of computer-storage devices, which rose 3/16 , to 171/16 , after falling sharply on Wednesday when it said it may face steep price cuts in the coming year.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (80%); WFC (NYSE) (63%); TGT (NYSE) (62%); INTC (NASDAQ) (61%); ITT (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (80%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (62%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (62%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (80%); CHICAGO CORP (69%); WELLS FARGO & CO (63%); TARGET CORP (62%); INTEL CORP (61%); SCOTT PAPER CO (60%); ITT CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); FUTURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PAPER MFG (60%); RETAILERS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



80 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
President Pressuring Baseball's Negotiators

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
A day after President Clinton emphatically stated, "I want this thing settled," the mediator in the baseball labor dispute was summoned to the White House today for an update on negotiations, then returned to the bargaining table to try to shove the owners and players toward an agreement.
Although the two sides did not move closer together on the core economic issue on the second day of their resumed talks, interested Government observers said they hoped that Presidential pressure and fear of the unknown -- what Clinton or Congress might do in the absence of a settlement -- would hasten a deal by the Monday deadline the President has set. 
 With his appointed mediator, Bill Usery Jr., empowered to wield a 40-ounce bat, Clinton has made it even clearer to top aides in recent days that he wants to see an end to the dispute, and he reiterated that desire to one of them Wednesday with his emphatic remark.
"The President wants to get an agreement here," a senior Administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said today. "He's concerned about states that have spring training. He's concerned about the cities and he's obviously concerned about the fans. He wants to move this along as quickly as possible."
The White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry, said Administration officials expect this to be a long weekend as the talks creep toward the final hours of the pre-Presidential presence in the dispute. That presence would appear in the form of a proposal made by Usery at Clinton's direction.
Usery had been scheduled to convene a bargaining session at 1:30 P.M. at the Mayflower Hotel today, but he was called to the White House for a 2:15 P.M. meeting with Bruce Lindsey, the deputy White House counsel, and Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich.
The mediator gave Lindsey and Reich a status report on the talks in their 45-minute session. Usery then returned to the hotel to meet with negotiators for both sides in a discussion of the new proposal the owners made Wednesday.
Asked what he knew about the White House session, Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, said, "The message was conveyed that the President expects and wants this to be settled."
John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, chairman of the owners' negotiating committee, was asked how serious he thought the Monday deadline was.
"My understanding," he said, "is the deadline is heavy, heavy."
The key element of the proposal, the two-tiered tax that would steeply assess payroll portions over thresholds of $35 million and $42 million, was not discussed in the three-and-a-half-hour bargaining session. Negotiators instead went over issues such as pension, international play, scheduling and changes in the uniform player's contract.
Fehr said they narrowed the differences on some of the noneconomic issues.
The union has not responded to the tax plan, but Fehr said at a news briefing this evening that the taxes -- 75 percent and 100 percent of the portions of the payrolls over the thresholds -- are "extraordinarily heavy; they would be very significant."
Individual members of the union's bargaining team have said privately that despite the different elements of the tax plan, it was no improvement over the implemented salary cap. It was premature, they indicated, to say if the union would formulate a counterproposal using the same framework. The owners hoped they would.
"Everything, I guess, is negotiable," Tom Glavine, the Atlanta Braves pitcher, said after leaving the meeting. "It's just a matter of how far you're willing to go."
Glavine said the issue of taxes always presents a problem to players, because money is taken away from their salaries. "The problem with thresholds," he added, "is what happens with them if revenues go through the roof. Every time we negotiate a basic agreement, revenues have gone up 50 percent. Who's to say that won't happen again?"
Usery will most likely take that question and others into consideration if he is called on to present his own proposal. He was said not to have anything of his own ready to present to the two sides if they pass the Monday deadline without an agreement or substantial progress toward one.
If they reach that stage of the strike, which will soon be half a year old, the owners and players would face the question of what Clinton would do if they rejected the mediator's plan. The uncertainty could impel them toward a settlement.
But if they don't settle, the President could send Usery's plan to Capitol Hill and ask Congress to enact legislation that would impose a settlement on the owners and players. Or Congress could pass a bill imposing binding arbitration on the two sides.
Representative Pat Williams, Democrat of Montana, has introduced a bill in the House calling for binding arbitration.
It would not be unusual for Congress to legislate a settlement in a labor dispute, but it would be a first for an industry like baseball that does not fall into the national-interest category of railroads and airlines.
As recently as 1992, Congress ended a labor dispute, between the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and a freight rail company, with legislation. The dispute had shut down virtually all freight traffic and threatened commuter service.
Would Congress view the baseball situation with such alarm? Its members would prefer a negotiated settlement, but if it becomes obvious that the owners and the players will not act on their own, large segments of the Senate and House could initiate action.
Harrington discovered today what steps some Congressmen might take. He had just finished giving a news briefing on a conference call of the expansion committee and walked out of the room right into the path of two Representatives from Florida, who were about to make their own appearance in the press room.
Peter Deutsch and Mark Foley expressed to Harrington their concern about the effect of the dispute on the Florida economy during spring training.
"You understand that's one of the main reasons why we're driving toward playing the season and opening spring training," Harrington told them. "We're making that commitment to you."
They proceeded to discuss for several minutes the lagging sale of tickets for exhibition games. Harrington said Red Sox sales were picking up in Fort Myers, but Deutsch and Foley said sales were "very dismal" on Florida's other coast, where their districts are.
Foley, whose district includes the Mets in Port St. Lucie, said later in the press room that no one is eager to see replacement players.
"The enthusiasm for watching minor league players is very negligible," he said.
At a later briefing, Harrington said the owners, in the pension part of their proposal, had offered to make the $8 million payment they refused to make last Aug. 1, an act that prompted the National Labor Relations Board to issue an unfair labor practice complaint against the clubs.
"We agreed we would make that payment on settlement," Harrington said. Asked if the offer was an admission the owners were wrong in having refused to make the payment, he said, "It's not an admission but a recognition that that $8 million payment would be made some day."
The N.L.R.B. has scheduled a March 14 hearing before an administrative law judge on its complaint.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Harrington, Red Sox executive and chief negotiator for the owners, speaking with reporters yesterday before meeting with players. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. B15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; SALARY CAPS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); USERY, BILL JR; HARRINGTON, JOHN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



81 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: More Open Fed On Rate Moves

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is opening the window a little wider into its inner sanctum.
Breaking eight decades of resistance to greater public disclosure, the Fed made it official this evening that it would continue to announce changes in interest rates.
The central bank's resistance to announcing policy changes had already been crumbling, and the Fed began a provisional practice of announcing rate increases last year. But until today, Fed officials had maintained that each statement could be the last and that further rate increases might not be announced. 
 In the past, bond market traders and others interested in interest rates had to surmise what the Fed was doing by watching whether rates rose or fell during the period each morning when the Fed buys and sells bonds. That arrangement was long criticized by Congressional Democrats but defended by Fed officials who contended that financial markets might be too unstable if the Fed announced its moves.
Representative Henry B. Gonzalez of Texas, the ranking Democrat on the House Banking and Financial Services Committee and a longtime Fed critic, welcomed the decision. "I consider the Federal Reserve's adoption of disclosure policies a victory," he said, "and commend the Fed for embracing some of the measures I have urged for years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FINANCIAL SERVICES MANAGEMENT CORP (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES CO SA OG (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES INCOME STREAMS CORP (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES MARKETING CORP (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, HENRY B (REPR) HENRY B GONZALEZ (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



82 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Sacrifice Profits To Enliven January Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
Christmas arrived in January for many retail chains, as sales exceeded merchants' expectations.
Shoppers turned out in force last month to snap up the bargains offered in the aftermath of the disappointing 1994 holiday sales season, when most retailers failed to post the sales gains they had anticipated. 
 Also, sales looked stronger in comparison with those in January 1994, when fierce winter storms in the East and Midwest and a powerful earthquake in California kept shoppers away from stores.
But most retailers paid for their sales with profits, which were sacrificed to price-cutting, and analysts said they had no plans to increase their estimates of fourth-quarter earnings because sales were stronger than expected. "We're calling it profitless prosperity," said Richard N. Baum, a retailing analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
J. C. Penney said yesterday that same-store sales, or sales in stores open at least one year, hopped 14.4 percent higher, and the May Department Stores Company reported a 9.2 percent jump in same-store sales at its department stores.
Federated Department Stores Inc., which operates Bloomingdale's, Jordan Marsh and Burdines, posted a 7.4 percent increase in same-store sales, and the Gap Inc., whose same-store sales have hovered in the low single digits for months on end, reported a 7 percent rise in same-store sales last month. Those companies and others slashed prices last month in an effort to clean up bloated inventories left over from weak holiday sales.
Retail industry analysts consider same-store, or comparable-store, sales figures the best measure of a retailer's performance because they factor out sales from new stores that are not necessarily comparable.
Two large retailing companies had disappointing sales in January. The Limited Inc. said its same-store sales fell 5 percent from January 1994 in spite of its efforts to clear out fall and winter merchandise, and the Woolworth Corporation reported a 3 percent decline in same-store sales.
Goldman's Composite Comparable-Store Sales Index, a weighted average of the same-store sales of 49 retail chains, climbed 4.7 percent last month compared with 3.5 percent in January 1994 and in the same range as gains retailers have posted every month since September. A similar index compiled by Salomon Brothers using sales data from 22 retailers showed a 6.1 percent increase.
Retail companies have usually used January to clear out the mistakes they made in merchandising for the holiday sales season, which is the peak sales season of their fiscal year. Only 5 percent of their annual sales come in January, and the month usually represents 15 to 20 percent of their fourth-quarter volume. Most retailers' fourth quarters run from November through January.
"January is what January is: a clearance month that really doesn't tell you much," said Robert F. Buchanan, a retailing analyst at NatWest Securities. "February is going to give us a better indication of what trends look like."
Mr. Buchanan and other analysts said that several retailers had reported strong sales of early spring merchandise that they began to put out toward the middle of the month.
Mervyn's, the Dayton Hudson Corporation's long-troubled discount department store chain, had an 11.6 percent increase in same-store sales last month, in part because of good sales of spring merchandise. Talbots Inc., a women's specialty store chain that had a 5.5 percent increase in same-store sales, reported similar gains.
But analysts cautioned against reading much optimism into those reports. The muddy picture of the overall economy, with some indicators portending solid consumer spending ahead and others pointing to a slowdown, has made many hesitate to forecast the year yet.
Many analysts expect 1995 to be a tough year for retail companies, as higher interest rates eat into discretionary income. Real wage growth is slowing, housing sales have been slowing and installment credit is reaching a level that many economists consider unsustainable.
"Year-over-year growth in consumer spending is going to slow in 1995," Mr. Baum said. "That said, the retail stocks may be finished with their period of underperformance."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Chain Stores' Sales in January" shows year-over-year change in Goldman, Sachs' Comparable-Store Sales INdex, which reflects same-store sales at 49 retail chains and is weighted to account for national chains and smaller regional ones. (Sources: Goldman, Sachs; company reports) (pg.D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (94%); FL (NYSE) (84%); GPS (NYSE) (82%); LTD (NYSE) (65%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (84%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (65%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (65%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO MACY'S INC (94%); FOOT LOCKER INC (84%); GAP INC (82%); L BRANDS INC (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CHRISTMAS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); INDUSTRY PROFILES RETAILERS (98%); RETAIL SALES (93%); SAME STORE SALES (93%); CHRISTMAS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRICE CUTTING (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



83 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Steady After Scare On Mexican Aid Package

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar was steady against most leading currencies yesterday after a brief selloff prompted by a a challenge to President Clinton's aid package for Mexico.
A small group of right-wing House Republicans proposed a bill to block the package of $20 billion in loan guarantees. 
 The dollar stumbled on the news, but recouped some of its losses when Republican and Democratic legislative leaders, including the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, stood by the President's plan.
"It gave us some knee-jerk selling," said Win Thin, senior international economist at IDEA, a research institute in New York. "If Mexico doesn't do something in the next couple of weeks we're going to see some more selling pressure. The Mexican Government has to reassure the financial markets that it's ready to do the painful policies necessary."
Anxiety in the currency markets over the Mexican aid package has underscored the perception that the United States is vulnerable to the Mexican financial crisis.
Aside from a flurry of selling after the Republican proposal, the dollar traded in a narrow range with little volume yesterday.
In New York late in the day, the dollar edged up to 1.5185 German marks from 1.5180 marks on Thursday. It fell to 1.2815 Swiss francs from 1.2840 francs. The dollar rose to 99.43 Japanese yen from 99.20 yen.
By the afternoon, most currency dealers seemed resigned to a quiet day and began to focus on today's employment report for January.
"The market is now waiting to see the payroll numbers to begin assembling its expectations whether yesterday's rate hike is all that the Fed will do," said David De Rosa of the Swiss Bank Corporation, referring to the Federal Reserve's action on Wednesday raising both the Federal funds rate and the discount rate.
In other currency trading, the British pound was little changed after the Bank of England raised interest rates in an effort to restrain inflation as a recovery picks up steam. The British central bank raised its base lending rate by half a percentage point, to 6.75 percent, the highest level since November 1992.
Higher interest rates typically bolster a currency by making deposits denominated in it more attractive to foreign investors. Britain's increase, the third since September, had been widely expected by the financial markets. In New York trading, the pound fell to $1.5815 yesterday from $1.5827 on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT CURRENCIES (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRENDS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



84 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: For Arts, State Budget Less Than Reassuring

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

 BODY:
The state budget released by Gov. George E. Pataki this week answered a question that had been worrying arts organizations around New York City: would it include the second slice of $5 million in matching funds to arts groups promised under the Cuomo Administration?
The answer, buried in the two volumes of budget figures and notes released on Wednesday, was yes, but the news did not bring much relief to those who work in the arts. That is because overall financial support for museums, theaters, dance companies and other arts groups had been cut to $25.8 million from $32.6 million, a 21 percent reduction. 
 And with the cut, the challenge-grant program has become a mixed blessing for arts organizations.
The challenge grants were initially welcomed last year as an innovative way to stretch government dollars. They allowed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani a politically palatable means of restoring cuts he had made to the city's Department of Cultural Affairs, by demanding state and private matches for $5 million in municipal grants and setting conditions for the use of the money.
Norma P. Munn, chairwoman of the New York City Arts Coalition, a nonprofit organization representing arts groups, said, though, that last year's challenge-grant money came from a state budget that had grown about $6 million over the amount recommended by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. With this year's decrease in the state arts budget, the challenge grants would come from a shrinking pie.
Amid deep cuts in the state budget and an austere climate in Albany, the setting aside of $2.5 million for challenge grants to the city -- and the start of another $2.5 million matching program for the rest of the state -- means the state money would lessen the discretionary funds that would otherwise be used to help defray the basic costs of creating art. The city and state challenge grants would reduce the amount left for general subsidies to $20.8 million, a level not seen since 1973, according to state figures.
"What you have is the impact of squeezing less and less money out of individual discipline programs," Ms. Munn said. This process, she contends, would disproportionately hurt New York City, because that is where arts groups are concentrated and where the economy is most dependent on tourists drawn to the arts.
"As you put these special programs into effect, you're increasingly not supporting the central mission of arts organizations, which is to create art," she said, noting that financing for some groups had to go for reaching new audiences, a requirement that museums, for example, met by using the money to extend hours or re-open galleries.
"If that discipline internally no longer has $1 million to spend, but $500,000, it is cut from somewhere."
Schuyler G. Chapin, the City Commissioner of Cultural Affairs, said he was saddened by state cuts but pleased to see the second half of the $5 million included in the budget package. "It means the full completion of the challenge grant," he said. He said he did not expect the state's cuts to influence Mr. Giuliani in putting together the city budget, because New York's economy depends so heavily on the arts.
The setting aside of $2.5 million to start a similar challenge grant program for New York State would, theoretically, depend upon the ability of local governments and private donors to match the funds. Yesterday, some state arts officials expressed concern that groups in rural areas especially might have a hard time finding the matching money.
"The challenge makes it difficult," said Kitty Carlisle Hart, chairwoman of the New York State Council on the Arts. "In the past, we've given our money to institutions that we thought were worthy. It's like saying: 'You know, the thing worked very well in the city. Why not upstate?' But the situation is different there."
Mrs. Hart said the cuts to the council's budget were in line with reductions at other departments, but she noted they came on the heels of a severe cut to $27 million from $54 million in 1990, which led arts groups to drop some of their activities and staff. "They're already so close to the bone, with this extra cut, they're going to go out of business," Mrs. Hart said.
Reductions in administration would also mean the laying off of at least 9 of the council's 45 employees. The Pataki budget presumes $345,000 in support from the National Endowment for the Arts, which has been under attack in Congress, and whose fate appears uncertain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MATCHING GIFTS (95%); BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CUOMO, MARIO M; SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



85 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
 Europeans are uneasy over President Clinton's Mexican rescue plan. Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland withheld their support from an American-backed loan package approved by the International Monetary Fund. [Page A1.] 
 Mexico's foreign-currency reserves shrank by more than 43 percent last month, the country's central bank reported, showing how close the nation had come to insolvency. [D2.]
 
Companies
 Salomon lost $122 million in the fourth quarter, a performance some analysts called embarrassingly bad. The loss capped the firm's first unprofitable year since 1981, when it went public. [D1.]
 Boeing plans to cut 7,000 more jobs and reduce production of two models of jetliners. While the number of job cuts exceeded most estimates, analysts said the production cutbacks were smaller than expected and appeared to mark a bottom for Boeing. [D1.]
 Intel is cutting chip prices by 7 to 40 percent. The company hopes the cuts will win a bigger market for its Pentium chips. [D5.]
 Delta Air Lines won approval for an alliance with Virgin Atlantic that will give it access to Heathrow Airport in London. [D5.]
 Wellcome cited strong earnings as evidence that Glaxo's $14 billion hostile takeover bid undervalues the company. Wellcome released its 1994 results a month ahead of schedule. [D5.]
 A Saudi prince is expected to reduce his stake in Euro Disney. The Prince helped bail out the theme park last summer. [D5.]
 Donald J. Trump hired BT Securities and Rothschild to create a plan to persuade bondholders of the Trump Taj Mahal to return their 50 percent ownership of the property to him. [D5.]
 
The Economy
 Retail sales gains came at a price in January. While many chains posted strong sales, the gains reflected price-cutting made to clean up bloated inventories left over from weak holiday sales. An analyst called it "profitless prosperity." [D1.]
 New competition in electricity production will require wrenching changes, challenging interests ranging from environmental groups to utility stockholders to engineers. Nearly all existing investments in power production are more expensive than what it would cost to start from scratch. News Analysis. [D1.]
 Sales of new homes fell 0.6 percent in December as higher interest rates continued to slow the housing market. [D2.]
 A Federal program supporting the development of advanced computers is crucial to the economy, a new report contends. [D2.]
 
Markets
 Treasury prices were mixed in thin trading ahead of today's employment report and next week's supply of new debt. [D6.]
 Stocks rallied in moderate trading on relief that the Federal Reserve has finished raising interest rates for the moment. [D8.]
 The dollar was little changed after a brief scare over President Clinton's rescue package for Mexico. [D17.]
 Gasoline prices tumbled on a move by New Jersey to switch grades sooner than expected. Cotton prices rebounded. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
 Benetton's provocative ads are under fire in Germany. A number of store owners are angrily contending that the print advertisements -- they have shown, for example, the words "H.I.V. positive" tattooed on a man's arm -- have led to public protests that caused their sales to tumble. Advertising. [D1.]
 Roadmaster has expanded beyond bicycles, a development that could revive its stock. Some big investors, including John W. Kluge, are paying attention to the company. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); GSK (NYSE) (55%); GSK (LSE) (55%); BIOC (EGX) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); EDL (PAR) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BELGIUM (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%); INTEL CORP (56%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (55%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); EURO DISNEY SCA (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BELGIUM (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); BONDS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



86 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON'S BUDGET FALLS WELL SHORT OF G.O.P. DEMANDS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton will propose $1.6 trillion of spending in his 1996 budget, and he would more than offset the cost of a middle-class tax cut with savings in other areas of the budget. But he still falls far short of Republican demands for a balanced budget in the year 2002.
Mr. Clinton's budget request, to be submitted to Congress on Monday, shows a deficit of $196.7 billion for the 1996 fiscal year, up slightly from the $192.5 billion that he projects for this year. Although his Budget Message boasts that his economic policies have sharply reduced the deficit from record levels, he says the deficit will probably stay in the range of $190 billion through 2005. 
 The budget is always a political document, and a theme of Mr. Clinton's 1996 budget is that he wants to "work with Congress," now controlled by Republicans. Indeed, he appears to be in a race with them as he tries to eliminate or consolidate programs or transfer them to the states or to private industry.
Parts of the Clinton budget echo Speaker Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia. "The American people remain deeply dissatisfied with how their Government works," the budget says. "Many programs, perhaps even whole agencies, have outlived their usefulness."
In confidential page proofs of the budget, Mr. Clinton says he can "save $2 billion by ending more than 130 programs" and "provide better service to Americans by consolidating more than 270 other programs."
For example, he asks Congress to abolish the Interstate Commerce Commission and to eliminate the role of the Army Corps of Engineers in smaller projects like the control of beach erosion, "local flood protection" and the construction of recreational harbors.
He says private meteorologists should take over some functions of the National Weather Service. He would rely on private businesses to track and communicate with spacecraft like the space shuttle. And he asks Congress to terminate 37 "low-priority" education programs.
But budget documents show that Mr. Clinton will propose a major increase in his national service program, Americorps, which has been denounced by Mr. Gingrich as a form of "coerced volunteerism."
The number of participants, now 20,000, would rise to 33,000 at the end of this year and 47,000 next year under Mr. Clinton's proposal. For the corps' parent agency, which operates several volunteer programs, he requests $1 billion in 1996, an increase of $290 million over this year's appropriation.
Mr. Clinton says his economic policies have slashed the deficit from the record $290 billion in 1992. Still, his proposals would require additional Federal borrowing of nearly $1 trillion over five years, and the Federal Government would spend $194 billion more than it collects in revenue in the year 2000. The House Republicans' Contract With America calls for eliminating the deficit by 2002, but the Republicans have not specified the cuts needed to do so.
The President's $1.6 trillion budget for 1996 breaks down this way: $262 billion, or 16 percent of the total, for the military; $351 billion, or 22 percent, for Social Security; $271 billion, or 17 percent, for Medicare and Medicaid, and $257 billion, or 16 percent, for interest on the Federal debt, the accumulated total of Federal borrowing.
International activities, including foreign aid, would receive $21 billion, or 1.3 percent.
The President and the Republicans have agreed that Social Security is off limits in their quest for savings, and Mr. Clinton has said he would not tamper with Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly or disabled.
That means that a large share of the cuts must come from domestic programs subject to annual appropriations, including law enforcement, scientific research, highway construction and environmental protection. These account for $266 billion, or 17 percent of the budget.
The remainder -- $184 billion, or 11 percent of the total -- is for benefit programs like welfare, food stamps, Civil Service pensions and veterans' benefits, which are automatically available to people who meet certain eligibility criteria.
In his Budget Message, Mr. Clinton says: "Now that we have brought the deficit down, we have no intention of turning back. My budget keeps us on the course of fiscal discipline by proposing $81 billion in additional deficit reduction through the year 2000."
Mr. Clinton estimates that his tax cut, including a new tax credit for children and a new deduction for college expenses, will cost the Treasury $63 billion over five years. But he says, "I am proposing enough spending cuts to provide more than twice as much in budget savings -- $144 billion -- as the tax cuts will cost."
He says the net effect would be to save $81 billion over five years.
The savings fall into four categories: $26 billion from radically reorganizing three Cabinet departments and two agencies; $81 billion from extending a cap on military and other discretionary spending through the year 2000; $32 billion from benefit programs, and $5 billion from lower interest payments on the Federal debt.
Here are other highlights of the President's budget:
*The Federal deficit would rise to $213 billion in 1997, drop back to $196 billion in 1998 and then "fluctuate in a narrow range" around that level for several years. But the economy would continue to grow, so the ratio of the deficit to the gross domestic product would be lower than at any other time in two decades.
*Mr. Clinton proposes an across-the-board pay raise of 2.4 percent for Federal civilian employees and military personnel. The budget includes $3 billion for the raises, which would take effect in January 1996. There would be raises of 3.1 percent in 1997 and 2.1 percent in each of the next three years.
*The President proposes to increase fees charged for registration of securities and other activities at the Securities and Exchange Commission. New revenue is expected to total $1.7 billion over five years.
*Mr. Clinton would require the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve to charge fees for examination of state-chartered banks and bank holding companies. This proposal is expected to raise $500 million over five years.
*Medicare, for the elderly, and Medicaid, for poor people, are growing more slowly than predicted in previous budgets. But the growth is still phenomenal. Over the next five years, Medicare outlays are expected to rise 9.1 percent a year, while Medicaid grows 9.3 percent a year.
The President's budget says that health programs account for almost 40 percent of the total increase in Federal spending over the next five years. He says the deficit could be eliminated in less than a decade if per capita spending on Medicare and Medicaid increased no faster than consumer prices in general. But Mr. Clinton, battered by his experience with health care legislation last year, offers no major proposals to rein in the cost of Medicare.
The budget provides details of Mr. Clinton's previously announced plan to "reinvent" the Departments of Energy, Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, the Office of Personnel Management and the General Services Administration.
Mr. Clinton said the staff of the personnel agency, which now has 5,400 employees, would be cut by a third. And the staff of the General Services Administration, the central housekeeping and supply agency for the Government, with 16,800 employees, would be halved.
In keeping with the new spirit of federalism, Mr. Clinton proposes to consolidate scores of Federal grants and let local officials decide how to use the money. The Transportation Department now has 30 grants for construction and repair that would be merged into one of $10 billion a year.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development would merge 60 programs into eight worth $26 billion next year. He proposes to "demolish thousands of severely deteriorated, mostly vacant units," and he says that "by 1998 no housing authority will receive funds directly from HUD." Instead, tenants will get vouchers that they can use to pay rent in any public or private housing.
Like Ronald Reagan in 1986, President Clinton proposes to sell four Federal agencies that provide electric power at subsidized rates to millions of people in the West and South. He proposes to convert a fifth such agency, the Bonneville Power Administration, to a Government corporation, so it could "operate more efficiently."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The budget director, Alice M. Rivlin, looked at a copy of the budget for fiscal year 1996 yesterday at the Government Printing Office. (Reuters) (pg. B10)
 
Graphs: "LEDGER: Borrowing by the Government" tracks the deficit, annually, from 1991 through 1994 and provides estimates through 2000. Also tracked annually is the federal debt during 1991 through 1994. (Source: President Clinton's proposed budget for fiscal 1996) (pg. B10)
 
"BY THE NUMBERS: The President's Proposal"
 The Budget calls for $1.6 trillion in Federal spending in fiscal 1996, which begins in October. Graph shows breakdown. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION; NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; AMERICORPS GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (59%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (59%); GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION; NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS; AMERICORPS GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (59%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (59%); GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRIVATIZATION; WEATHER BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WEATHER (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (86%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); ARMIES (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); EROSION CONTROL (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); ENGINEERING (68%); EROSION (63%); BEACHES (63%); METEOROLOGY (63%); SPACE EXPLORATION (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); RIVLIN, ALICE M (DIR) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



87 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
UNEASINESS OVER AID TO MEXICO
Reflecting uneasiness over President Clinton's plan to rescue Mexico's economy, financial officials disclosed that several European countries withheld their support from a U.S.-backed loan package. A1
 
MIDEAST SUMMIT MEETING
The leaders of Israel, Egypt, Jordan and the P.L.O. agreed to talks to overcome an impasse in progress toward peace in the Middle East. A1 

BURUNDI MAY FOLLOW RWANDA
Violence and uncertainty have been common in Burundi for more than two years, and diplomats worry whether the country can avoid the bloodshed that befell Rwanda. A3
 
FRAGILITY OF ULSTER PEACE
News analysis: The furor over a document hammered out by British and Irish officials that was leaked to a British newspaper shows just how fragile are the peace efforts in Northern Ireland. A9
 
DUTCH FLOODWATERS RECEDE
The Dutch authorities said that flooding had slowly begun to recede, but they warned that the country's dikes could still crumble and that the crisis was not yet over. A12
 
FAITH IN SERBIAN LEADER FADES
News analysis: The West has placed its faith in President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia to bring peace to the Balkans. This week, Mr. Milosevic snubbed the American Ambassador to Croatia. A12
 
Peru and Ecuador engage in the heaviest fighting in a week. A8
 
A Haitian official says Haiti's security is still threatened. A5
 
Desarmes Journal: Haitians find it is finally safe to store crops. A4
 
National A14-17, B8-10
 
$1.6 TRILLION BUDGET PLANNED
Planning a tax cut for the middle class and reductions of other spending to offset it, President Clinton will propose spending $1.6 trillion in the 1996 fiscal year. A1
 
A CHURCH TRANSFORMED
On the South Side of Chicago, the Progressive Community Church is less a place of worship than a community center for its neighborhood, like many other churches in urban areas that now face heavy costs just to stay open. A14
 
NOMINEE INTRODUCED
Man in the News: Dr. Henry W. Foster Jr., a specialist in the prevention of infant mortality and teen-age pregnancy, was introduced by President Clinton as the nominee for Surgeon General. A14
 
FINDING PERFECT PITCH
Researchers have found that a mound of tissue on the left side of the brain is where the rare talent of perfect pitch seems to reside. A16
 
AIDS STRATEGY TO BE REASSESSED
The director of the AIDS research for the National Institutes of Health said needed study was being discouraged because too much money was tied up in clinical trials. A17
 
OPPOSITION TO TERM LIMITS
Speaker Newt Gingrich said two parts of the Contract With America, term limits and rules governing lawsuits, would face significant opposition in Congress. B8
 
SHUTTLE IS LAUNCHED
The shuttle Discovery, with its first woman pilot and second Russian cosmonaut, was launched on a mission to rendevous with a Russian space station for the first time. A16
 
A senator planned a to check public radio workers' backgrounds. B9
 
Law Page B20
 
O. J. Simpson's lawyers pressed the attack on a prosecution witness.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
OBSTACLES TO POLICE INQUIRY
Senior Police Department officials and prosecutors said that representatives of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association made aggressive efforts to thwart corruption inquiries in two precincts. A1
 
WHITMAN BACKLASH OVER SCHOOLS
Last week Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said that she would cut aid to some New Jersey school systems. Suddenly, the much praised Governor is being assailed. A1
 
HOMELESS LIVING AT AIRPORTS
About a dozen people live permanently at Kennedy International Airport, settling down at night in the cavernous international terminals that never close. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-28
 
Bar bands offer music with grit. C1
State budget less than reassuring for arts. C3
For Children C5
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"The Moliere Comedies." C1
Film: "Boys on the Side." C3
"Martha and Ethel." C8
"The Secret of Roan Inish." C12
"In the Mouth of Madness." C17
Music: Soprano in debut. C5
Dance: "To the Pointe." C8
Restaurants C20
Art: Horace Pippin show. C1
Max Beckmann at the Modern. C23
Inside Art C24
Works by William Baziotes. C25
Art in Review C27
Photography: The changeless poor. C23
Books: Voyaging into the past. C28
Television: TV Weekend D26
Home Video D25
 
Sports B12-19
 
Baseball: Pressure from the White House. B13
Columns: Vecsey on Joyner-Kersee B13
Football: Eagles tap Rhodes. B13
Hockey: Rangers and Lightning tie. B13
Islanders edge Flyers. B14
Two in a row for Devils. B14
 
Obituaries D19-20
 
Donald Pleasence, actor. D19
Evelyn Tripp, fashion model. D19
Fred Perry, the finest male tennis player in Britain's history. D20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Tackling the fish market mess.
Cold-war nostalgia.
"Comparable" for women?
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Tilting the scales.
A. M. Rosenthal: Jihad in America.
William Greider: The Fed's rubber dollars.
Garry Trudeau: My tryout.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle B11
 
Crossword C28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (94%); HAITI (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); RWANDA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BURUNDI (92%); JORDAN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRELAND (79%); PERU (79%); CROATIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: C8 RESTAURANTS C20 (62%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); HAITI (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (92%); RWANDA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BURUNDI (92%); JORDAN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRELAND (79%); PERU (79%); CROATIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); BUDGETS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); RELIGION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (65%); TAX LAW (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); LITIGATION (60%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (52%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



88 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Western Allies Rebuff Clinton In Mexico Vote

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 2

 BODY:
In an extraordinary sign of the European uneasiness over President Clinton's plan to rescue Mexico's economy, financial officials disclosed today that six European countries withheld their support from an American-backed loan package approved by the International Monetary Fund.
Although the $17.8 billion package was accepted late Wednesday, the fact that six key Western nations -- Britain, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland -- abstained from approving the Clinton plan was taken as a rare rebuff of American leadership in the handling of an emergency. 
 The six countries complained that they had not been consulted on the $10 billion increase in loans to Mexico, which was announced by President Clinton on Tuesday evening as part of an emergency package to bolster confidence in the falling peso.
"There is a feeling of unease among Europeans that the whole thing was not handled very well at all," said one European official whose country abstained.
European financial officials, none of whom wished to be named, said the plan was pushed through too quickly, without regard to whether it might dry up I.M.F. funds, including those for big developing countries with debt problems and the formerly Communist countries of East Europe.
"We think the package was put together with too much haste and that the member countries did not have enough time to evaluate it," said a German Government official.
Some European financial officials said France would also have abstained were it not that the managing director of the fund, Michel Camdessus, is French.
European officials said that not only were they caught by surprise on Tuesday when President Clinton announced the increase of I.M.F. aid, to $17.8 billion from the previously announced $7.8 billion, but that they received the documents detailing the agreement less than an hour before the meeting on Wednesday to vote on the package.
"For many countries, this package came out of nowhere," said one French official. "There was no prior consultation. This was done totally outside standard procedures. No one wanted the package to collapse, but countries wanted to make a point."
A German official added: "We normally have two to three weeks to approve such aid packages. When there is an emergency, we usually have two to three days. On this one, we had less than an hour."
An American official at the I.M.F. acknowledged that the United States had not consulted its European allies before announcing the decision to go ahead with the Mexico plan.
"There wasn't really time for consultation," said Karin Lissakers, the United States executive director at the I.M.F. "The Europeans aren't wrong about the lack of consultation and we understand fully their frustration."
She said the Administration made the decision in order to stop what was clearly a growing crisis of confidence in Mexico. She added that despite criticism that too much money was offered in the package to Mexico, "it was better to err on too much rather than too small."
European officials said the size of the I.M.F. loan for Mexico left them concerned about aid requests from other countries, particularly Russia, which is currently negotiating a $15 billion package.
They said such a huge injection of funds into the Mexican economy, while not jeopardizing the liquidity of the institution, would make it more difficult to provide loans to other countries. The officials also warned that as a result of the Mexican crisis, countries like Brazil may need additional assistance and will come to the fund expecting larger loans.
The $17.8 billion is part of a package of about $50 billion in assistance for Mexico announced by President Clinton after he failed to muster support in Congress for $40 billion in United States loan guarantees.
European central banks will put up $10 billion in loans from the Bank for International Settlements, based in Basel, Switzerland, and the United States has promised $20 billion from its Exchange Stabilization Fund.
Of concern to European financial officials was the fact that such large loans represent a change in the fund's lending policy. Usually, approval of I.M.F. assistance -- along with agreement by the receiving country to institute fiscal and monetary reforms -- is meant to cover a small portion of the monetary needs of a country in financial straits. Then the country can seek more help from commercial banks or other countries.
"This amount greatly exceeds what would traditionally be the amount of I.M.F. lending, and we think it is a bad precedent," said a Dutch official. "The fund is supposed to play a catalytic role."
European officials said the $17.8 billion was several times what Mexico would qualify for under normal circumstances.
Fund officials said no formal vote is normally taken on such loans, and none was recorded Wednesday night. But several European countries warned ahead of time that they would abstain and formally made that position clear today.
European officials said that despite their ire at what they regarded as being railroaded, the aid was needed and thus they did not vote against the program.
Assistance packages like the one for Mexico require only a majority vote for approval. Voting power in the I.M.F. is weighted according to the relative financial contributions of the member countries, with greater voting power in the hands of wealthy industrial countries.
If the fund's reserves drop and officials deem that a new injection of money is needed from member countries, a vote of at least 85 percent is required.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); DENMARK (93%); BELGIUM (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) EUROPEAN FINANCIAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; DENMARK; ; NETHERLANDS; BELGIUM; SWITZERLAND; FRANCE; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); DENMARK (93%); BELGIUM (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NASH, NATHANIEL C BILL CLINTON (97%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (96%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



89 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET;
Budget-Cut Target Has 9 Lives Plus

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton's budget includes one item that is a hardy perennial on the list of programs to cut: "impact aid" to school districts having sizable numbers of military personnel or other Federal employees.
The program is intended to compensate school districts for revenue lost because of their inability to tax Federal property. President Ronald Reagan tried to reduce these payments in 1981, when they totaled $706 million, and he had some success. But they have since climbed back, reaching $728 million this year. 
 Under current law, some districts get aid even though large numbers of Federal workers there live on private property. Critics say there is no particular justification for such payments because those parents usually pay state and local income and property taxes and contribute to the local economy by buying goods and services.
The future of the program may suggest how serious Congress is about reducing the budget deficit.
Carroll Dexter, director of program operations at the impact aid office of the Education Department, said, "They've been trying to eliminate this program since Eisenhower in 1954."
The program, Mr. Dexter said, has enjoyed bipartisan support because every one of the 435 Congressional districts has had some children whose family connections to the Federal Government generated Federal aid for local schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FEDERAL AID (US) BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



90 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET;
Excerpts From President clinton's 1996 Budget Message to the Congress

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from page proofs of President Clinton's Budget Message, which he will send to Congress on Monday:
The 1996 budget, which I am transmitting to you with this message, builds on the Administration's strong record of economic progress during the past two years and seeks to create a brighter future for all Americans. 
 Our economic plan helped bring the deficit down from $290 billion in 1992, to $203 billion in 1994, to a projected $193 billion this year, providing three straight years of deficit reduction for the first time since Harry Truman was President.
Now that we have brought the deficit down, we have no intention of turning back. My budget keeps us on the course of fiscal discipline by proposing $81 billion in additional deficit reduction through the year 2000. I am proposing to save $23 billion by reinventing three Cabinet departments and two other major agencies, to save $2 billion by ending more than 130 programs altogether, and to provide better service to Americans by consolidating more than 270 other programs. Under my plan, the deficit will continue to fall as a percentage of G.D.P. to 2.1 percent, reaching its lowest level since 1979.
 
Standard of Living
 To build a more prosperous America, one with rising living standards for all Americans, we must turn our attention to those who have not benefited from the current recovery. My budget proposes to do that.
I am proposing a middle class bill of rights, which will provide tax relief to middle-income Americans. The middle class bill of rights includes a $500 per child tax credit for middle income families with children under 13; expands eligibility for Individual Retirement Accounts and allows families to make penalty-free withdrawals for a range of educational, housing and medical needs, and offers a tax deduction for the costs of college, university or vocational education. Also, I am proposing to revamp our confusing array of job training programs by consolidating some 70 of them. In my G. I. bill for America's workers, I propose to offer dislocated and low-income workers skill grants through which they can make their own choices about the training they need to find new and better jobs.
And I am proposing to pay for this middle class bill of rights with specific spending cuts. In fact, I am proposing enough spending cuts to provide more than twice as much in budget savings, $144 billion, as the tax cuts will cost, $63 billion, over five years.
 
Creating Opportunity
 By itself, the Federal Government cannot rebuild America's communities. My national service program provides incentives for Americans of all ages to volunteer their services in local communities across the country and earn money for their own education. The budget proposes to invest more in our urban centers as well as in rural areas. And I will work with Congress to enact comprehensive welfare reform that embodies the principles of work and responsibility for able-bodied recipients while protecting their children.
I am proposing new funds with which states and localities can hire more police, build more space in prisons and boot camps, invest in prevention programs and provide drug treatment.
While working to fulfill the Federal Government's responsibility to secure our borders against illegal immigration, the budget also proposes funds to assist states that are unduly burdened with the health, education and prison-related costs associated with illegal immigrants.
I am seeking significant new funding for the Advanced Technology Program at the Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology, NASA's New Technology Investments, the Defense Department's Technology Reinvestment Project, biomedical research at the National Institutes of Health, and research and development at the National Science Foundation.
 
American Leadership
 We have begun the post-cold war era and welcome one of its most significant fruits -- the continuing efforts of Russia and the newly independent states to move toward democracy and economic freedom.
We are redoubling our efforts to promote an open trading system in Asia, as well as in Latin American and the rest of the globe. I am proposing increased funding for our trade promotion agencies.
Our military strength works in synergy with our foreign policy. My defense funding initiative, a $25 billion increase in defense spending over the next six years, marks the third time that I have raised defense spending to support and maintain the most capable military force in the world.
 
Effective Government
 In the coming months, the Vice President will lead Phase II of our crusade to reinvent Government -- an effort to identify other agencies and programs to restructure or terminate, to sort out responsibilities among the Federal, State and local levels of government and to choose functions better performed by the private sector.
 
Conclusion
 Our agenda is working. By cutting the budget deficit, investing in our people and opening world markets, we have begun to lay the foundation for a strong economy for years to come. And by reinventing the Federal Government, cutting red tape and layers of management, we have begun to make Government more responsive to the American people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); CHILDREN (69%); STUDENT EXPENSES (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (63%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



91 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: 3 City Employees Among 14 Arrested in Loan-Sharking Scheme

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
At 7:30 yesterday morning, three F.B.I. agents entered the Yonah Schimmel Knish Bakery on the Lower East Side just as Alex Wolf, the manager, was starting coffee. "I thought maybe taxes," he said. The agents ruffled through business papers and removed from the window a photograph of Sheldon Keitz, who Mr. Wolf said has operated the legendary 85-year-old establishment for the last five years or so.
The agents left the smiling photo of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. 
 Mr. Keitz was one of 15 people, including three employees of the city's Human Resources Administration, who law-enforcement officials said were part of a loan-sharking ring.
After a yearlong investigation sparked by a tip from an informer within Human Resources, the authorities arrested 14 of the suspects yesterday. Mr. Keitz was not arrested because he was out of the country. Mr. Wolf said his employer was on one of his frequent trips to Russia, where he says Mr. Keitz is in the casino business.
Federal and city investigators said the ring loaned money at exorbitant interest rates of 120 percent or more a year -- loans received and paid back at a variety of places across the city, including at least two Human Resources offices and the knish bakery, at 137 East Houston Street.
Part of the loan-sharking activity was said to have taken place at an H.R.A. office in downtown Brooklyn, at 80 DeKalb Avenue, and one at 115 Chrystie Street in lower Manhattan. Both housed operations of the agency's Office of Child Support Enforcement.
The ring had been operating for as long as 10 years, investigators said. They estimated that close to $500,000 in loans were outstanding during the investigation.
The inquiry began early last year, when an H.R.A. employee went to the city's Department of Investigation with stories about loan-sharking at the downtown Brooklyn office.
The informer was not without self-interest. Facing criminal charges of bilking H.R.A. clients by pretending to be a lawyer who could help them with their problems, he hoped to gain leniency by reporting the loan-sharking operation, the authorities said.
The employee reported that 30 workers at the Brooklyn office had taken loans at usurious interest rates from two men known as Harvey and Turk, and that an H.R.A. supervisor was the men's representative and would arrange the illicit transactions for a commission of $20 for every $500 borrowed.
The loans to H.R.A. employees were usually between $500 and a few thousand dollars, the authorities said. The victims, whose names were withheld, were described as modestly paid people with financial problems but without the credit rating that would permit them to borrow from legitimate lenders.
Investigators said they believe employees at other H.R.A. offices may have borrowed from the ring.
Zachary W. Carter, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said that the investigation involved the use of an undercover New York City police detective who posed as a borrower and wiretaps on the telephones of some of those arrested.
Mr. Carter said the leader of the ring was Harvey Olchin, a 61-year-old retired butcher from Forest Hills, Queens, and that he was the "Harvey" the informant had referred to. Mr. Carter called him the "banker for the operation," the source for the loaned cash.
Mr. Olchin's wife, Ruth, was also arrested, and his brother-in-law, Jack Levy of Bayside, Queens, was described as the "Turk" of the operation. Mr. Levy, who was among those arrested, was one of the people "used as collectors and enforcers by Olchin, threatening violence and property damage if loans were not paid back with the extortionate rates of interest," Mr. Carter said.
Also arrested was Inez Bridges Richardson of Far Rockaway, Queens, an H.R.A. supervisor who the informer had reportedly identified as the person who represented the lenders at the Brooklyn office. Alfred DiStefano of Manhattan and Marvin Parker of the Bronx, both employees of the H.R.A.'s Chrystie Street office, were also arrested.
The three H.R.A. employees "were all involved in making loans to and collecting money from subordinates and coworkers in the H.R.A.," Mr. Carter said.
The suspects were arraigned yesterday on loan-sharking conspiracy charges in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. Reached after being freed on bail, they declined to comment.
Specifics about the Schimmel knishery's purported role in the case were provided in affadavits filed in court by James Hylton, a city police detective supervising the inquiry.
He said that on Dec. 26, Mr. Keitz, in an apparently wiretapped phone call, "told Olchin that he would collect the envelopes and hold them for him, or meet him at the store."
The investigation, Detective Hylton wrote, "has revealed that 'envelope' refers to money from loan proceeds" and "store"' refers to the Schimmel.
Last June, the detective said, the informant and Mr. Olchin agreed to meet at the knishery so that the informant could pay Mr. Olchin some of the loan money he owed. But Mr. Olchin was not at the knishery when the informant arrived, according to the affidavit, so the informant "gave the $200 for Olchin to a woman at the bakery."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The owner of the Yonah Schimmel Knish Bakery at 137 East Houston Street was implicated in a loan-sharking scheme that involved employees of the Human Resources Administration. The bakery was said to be one place where loans were repaid. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: LOAN-SHARKING SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BAKERIES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; KEITZ, SHELDON HARVEY OLCHIN (78%); ZACHARY W CARTER (73%); SHELDON KEITZ (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



92 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Washington Mayor Seeks Fiscal Help From the U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. outlined an ambitious plan today to save Washington from fiscal disaster, but he wants Congress to pay for a big part of it.
His proposal to eliminate the city's $ 631 million deficit would cut an unspecified number of jobs, require wage reductions and scale back city services like garbage collection and health care without raising taxes. But it also asks Congress to assume responsibility for the city's growing Medicaid costs -- an estimated $ 267 million this year, or 42.3 percent of the deficit. 
 James T. Walsh, the New York Republican who heads the House subcommittee for the District of Columbia, said he would not respond to Mr. Barry's plan until a Federal audit of city finances had been completed. And that is being held up, Mr. Walsh said, by unanswered requests for more documents.
Still, Mr. Walsh described the city's current state as "a serious fiscal crisis," and he said that if Mr. Barry could not correct the situation, Congress would, using whatever tools necessary, including a bailout. This would mean taking control of city finances from District leaders -- something Mayor Barry wants to avoid.
Jim Jeffords, a Vermont Republican who heads the Senate subcommittee on the District, sounded a cautionary note. "I cannot be optimistic that Congress will be willing to take extraordinary steps to help the District with problems that are all too ordinary across the country," he said in a statement
At a news conference today, Mr. Barry dismissed the suggestion that his request for money from a Republican-led Congress was fanciful. He said he was optimistic that Federal lawmakers would understand the city's predicament and be willing to help.
Mr. Walsh said nothing would happen anyway until the city meets the requirements Congress had set forth last year, to cut the budget by $ 140 million and eliminate 2,000 positions from the city government.
"I've got to see that happen; that's very important," Mr. Walsh said, a caution to any favorable consideration of the city's latest request. "They need to make those cuts."
Mr. Barry said that he had prepared a contingency plan in case Congress denied the city's request for help. But he declined to say what the plan is, adding that "it would be irresponsible to assume we won't get what we want."
The plan presented today, Mr. Barry said, would save $ 224 million in reduced city services, $ 70 million through layoffs, furloughs and wage cutbacks of up to 10 percent and another $ 70 million in restructuring of debt on loans, as well as the help from Congress to offset problems with Medicaid spending, the biggest drain on the budget.
Facing the largest of the proposed cuts, $ 68 million, the Department of Human Services would eliminate benefits for 19- and 20-year-olds and for pregnant women in the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program. Five local health clinics would be closed or consolidated.
The public school system, which has already canceled seven days of classes and 300 teaching positions, is being asked to cut spending by $ 45 million. The Department of Corrections is facing cuts of $ 25 million. And the Mayor's proposal also includes plans to lay off 90 doctors at the city's largest hospital, end tree trimming and reduce garbage pickups.
As part of the plan, the District would seek to transfer some services, like administering Medicaid and running a prison in Lorton, Va., to the Federal Government.
He said that a projected $ 91 million cash shortfall for the year, which was not addressed in his proposal, would be dealt with in some other way. But he did not elaborate.
Many of the workers who could be affected by the layoffs and furloughs were among the thousands Mr. Barry hired during the economic boom of his previous administrations from 1978 to 1990.
Advocacy groups for the poor and city unions condemned the planned cuts in services and jobs. The labor leaders argued that they were unfair because they did not appear to affect city employees at the management level. They also called for more taxes on business.
"The sacrifices cannot be one-sided," said Gizaw Gessesse, executive director of an American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees local. "Management cannot be spared at the expense of front-line workers. The wealthy cannot dump their responsibility on the city's poor."
Ron Richardson, the executive secretary-treasurer of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union, said the Barry plan did not make sense.
"It only apportions the pain," he said. "It affects everybody in the city. But the business community isn't being touched."
Mr. Barry, who has enjoyed strong support from city unions, said that he agreed with the labor leaders but that he had been powerless against the constant opposition to new taxes by the city's business leaders.
"Get them to stop opposing taxes," he said. "I can't."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); MEDICAID; MEDICINE AND HEALTH MEDICAID (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); AUDITS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: BARRY, MARION S JR (MAYOR); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL JAMES T WALSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



93 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Plans A Sharp Cut In Rental Aid

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
As part of his plan to cut the budget and restructure the state's welfare system, Gov. George E. Pataki wants to cut assistance to the poor in myriad ways, including reducing rent allowances and cutting emergency money for utility bills.
On Monday, Mr. Pataki proposed the deepest cuts in the state's 60-year history of welfare programs. But it was not until late Wednesday, when he presented a package of bills to the Legislature that will enact his budget, that some of the specific cuts became clear. 
 They include sharp reductions in housing subsidies for 21,000 welfare recipients, as well as the elimination of monthly allowances for pregnant women on welfare and money for welfare recipients to buy basic items of furniture like mattresses or cribs. Emergency payments of bills for welfare recipients facing utility cutoffs would also be eliminated.
The cost of these programs is shared by the Federal, state and local governments. The state cuts could result in cuts in matching local funds. In fact, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has also proposed eliminating city payments for several of the programs.
As advocates for the poor said the Governor's plan could leave thousands of families homeless, Mr. Pataki worked yesterday to sell his budget in Manhattan.
The Governor defended his $343 million in welfare cuts, saying that the program had grown out of control and that his efforts to cut payments and require work would help break what he called a cycle of dependency "from year to year and generation to generation."
"You have heard and I'm sure will continue to hear," he told a business group during a luncheon at the New York Hilton, " 'Oh, isn't this attacking the poor, or isn't this an effort to balance the budget or cut taxes on the backs of the poor?' "
"The people now trapped in that welfare system," he said, "have the same desires for themselves and their children and their grandchildren: to see them get a decent education and build a better life and have the opportunity to become active and successful participants in the American dream. The system now traps them and penalizes them for doing that."
Mr. Pataki's emphasis on welfare yesterday underscored its importance in his overall budget and the importance of drumming up public support. Today, he is scheduled to fly to Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse to speak to other groups.
As the Governor was speaking at the Hilton, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, chief among his Democratic opponents, was meeting with Mr. Giuliani at City Hall.
Mr. Silver said that he told the Mayor he believed the budget proposals would hurt the city. "The City of New York appeared to be a target, whether it was education aid, or other areas," Mr. Silver said. Mr. Giuliani, on the other hand, has said that the budget appears to help New York City.
Several advocates for the poor said yesterday that the details of the Governor's cuts for welfare recipients showed that he had gone further than he had originally outlined. The plan would eliminate emergency assistance for recipients who are disabled or blind and end the payment of brokers' and finders' fees for government-subsidized apartments.
"It says that his welfare bill is far more conservative and budget-driven than we ever would have expected," said Russell Sykes, deputy director of the State Communities Aid Association and a welfare expert.
Mr. Pataki's plan on housing allowances would have the broadest effect in New York City, and is aimed at settling a question that has been tied up in court since 1987: Is the state allowance for housing welfare recipients adequate? For years, advocates have argued, and state data has confirmed, that the subsidies often do not come near the rents that landlords charge.
If Mr. Pataki's proposal is approved by the Legislature and survives a likely court challenge, 21,000 people would lose a court-ordered subsidy that bridges the difference between their basic housing allowances and their actual rents -- a move that could cause more people to become homeless, advocates say. The proposal would save the state $25 million this fiscal year, and $50 million in the next fiscal year. New York City would see a similar but smaller savings.
The legislation would set into law rates that the state considered adequate for shelter allowance. That measure is missing in current law, and has prompted complicated litigation on the issue.
But advocates complain that the rates in Mr. Pataki's proposal, which were initially set in 1988, are far too low. For example, the Governor's plan would set the average monthly housing allowance for a family of three on welfare in New York City at $270. Outside of New York City, the average assistance would be $260.
Shelly Nortz, director of state policy for the New York State Coalition for the Homeless, said the help for the poor would be "torn to pieces with these proposals." And in the long run, she argued, the government might have to pay more, because emergency shelter and services for the homeless are far more expensive than paying money to keep people in their own homes.
"I don't think the Governor understands that the consequence isn't just borne by the people who lose their income and lose their housing, but also by society as a whole," she said. "There is a reason that public welfare programs were created in the first place, and that is that the public conscience would not tolerate the existence of poor houses and soup lines."
Claudia Hutton, a spokeswoman for the state budget division, said that the proposal was aimed at setting what the state considered adequate rents and stopping the growing number of people applying for the allowance over the basic rate.
Under a 1992 State Supreme Court order, welfare recipients whose rent is higher than their payments can apply for the extra supplement. Miss Hutton said the number of people who received the extra money had doubled since last year and was expected to double again next year.
"What has happened in the last few years is that we have encouraged a system to develop in which people on welfare could fall behind on their rent and know that the state would come in at the last minute, cover their arrears and pay future rent for them," Miss Hutton said.
Meantime, she said, "their more responsible neighbor next door could continue to pay rent on a monthly basis and not get this extra money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki with his spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, at a lunch yesterday. With him were Bernard H. Mendik, a businessman, left, and Charles A. Gargano, the Commissioner of Economic Development. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); HOUSING; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; RENTING AND LEASING INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MAYORS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); CITIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (70%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (69%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



94 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: THE POLITICS
Big Bargaining Chip;
President's Budget May Be Dead, But He Can Use It to Make a Deal

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Presidential budgets are seldom more than the opening ante in an annual poker game between Capitol Hill and the White House. But President Clinton's proposals for scattered spending cuts and modest tax breaks are even more preliminary than usual: He is sending them off to a hostile Congress not only ready to match his bet, but eager to raise him.
If the budget is always more a political statement of executive priorities than a reliable guide to legislative reality, this one is at once a dead-letter and an airmail special. The Republicans who control both houses for the first time in 40 years have vowed to use the Democratic President's plan as the basis for even greater spending cuts and tax reductions. 
 "I can't think of anything that Clinton could do, short of subscribing to the Contract With America, that would get the Republicans to say that he's done enough," said Allen Schick, a student of the budget process and a professor at George Mason University. "When you hear the phrase 'dead on arrival,' what that really means is not that it's dead, but that it's a document for bargaining. His real budget is still in his back pocket."
Accordingly, the President's advisers say he has tried to define himself as much by the programs he will seek to preserve -- nutrition grants for women and children, Head Start, national service, immunization, community development banks -- as by those he is willing to cut.
And in proposing to eliminate about 130 programs -- whether old chestnuts like the Interstate Commerce Commission and the strategic helium reserve, or new sacrifices like some smaller educational programs -- Mr. Clinton is both striving to signal that he, too, is serious about shrinking and reshaping the Government, and trying to keep his powder dry for the fights he cares most about.
"We have a lot of budget cuts that are very important and significant in this budget," Mr. Clinton told reporters today. "And I'm looking forward to working with Congress to see how we can do even better. And I think that -- I'm encouraged by what they said, that they want to pay for their tax cuts. And so I think when I submit the budget, I think it will be the beginning of a very positive thing. I don't have bad feelings about it."
James C. Miller 3d, who as Ronald Reagan's budget director often saw his work torn apart by a Democratic Congress's demands to increase domestic spending and Mr. Reagan's insistence on expanding the military, said Mr. Clinton's proposals would be far from irrelevant.
"Let me tell you something," Mr. Miller said. "If I'm old Newt Gingrich or Bob Dole, I'd be very anxious to see a list of the President's 50 biggest proposals, because there'll be things on there that look good to them."
One of the President's senior economic advisers, speaking on condition of anonymity, put it another way: "The budget's hardly D.O.A. They're looking to see what cuts we're going to do, because they'd like to take a lot of our cuts and say, 'Thank you very much.' So as we were doing cuts, there was not a sense of, 'This is false, it's not going to happen.' Just the opposite."
In fact, the White House's main goal so far has been to stay in the game. The broad details of the budget Mr. Clinton will submit on Monday have been known for weeks, since his address to the nation in December proposing new tax credits for families and deductions for college and technical education.
Unlike 1993, when Mr. Clinton's economic plan utterly dominated the debate in a Democratic Congress, or even last year when his budget message was eight bound pages chockablock with headings like "The Year Ahead" and bold, specific prescriptions for health care, crime and welfare, his letter to Congress this year is just over three pages, featuring headings like "Creating Opportunity and Encouraging Responsibility" and "Making Government Work."
The aim has been to position Mr. Clinton as the champion of working middle-class families, while painting Republican proposals for much deeper tax breaks or cuts in capital gains taxes as too soft on the rich, and warning that the Republican-backed balanced-budget amendment could place new burdens on the states or force cuts in programs like Social Security and Medicare.
"We have to put our cards on the table when we submit the budget proposal to the Congress," the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry said this week. "Congress can choose to do with that what it will."
What Congress is likely to do with it in the short term is wait just a bit. The Republicans are intent on passing the broad, 100-day promises provided in their Contract With America before delving too deeply into the messy and painful specifics of actual program cuts.
Mr. Clinton, too, is saving the specific proposals for how he would generate some of the most significant savings -- more than $50 billion over the next five years -- for springtime, when Vice President Al Gore is to present his second round of proposals for "reinventing" government by shedding and shrinking functions.
That is tricky for the President, since it will put him in the position of amending and revising his own proposals even as Congress is picking them apart. Mr. Clinton also faces the dual challenge of appeasing the Republicans in Congress, and moderates among the electorate, by showing his willingness to cut, without unduly alienating core Democratic constituencies likely to be hurt by such cuts.
In the end, Presidential advisers say, the challenge might not be vastly worse than dealing with a Democratic Congress that either passed some of Mr. Clinton's biggest initiatives by the barest majorities, or failed to approve them at all.
"There's no question this provides some opportunity for us," one senior aide said. "The President came here from Arkansas, and he wasn't someone who was wedded to a million different protected programs on the Hill. Now the Administration has a little more power with constituency groups to say, 'Hey, we want to protect some of these things, but they have to be reformed.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (91%); WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (91%); WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



95 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Tackling the Fish Market Mess

 BODY:
Ending half a century of abdication by New York City -- and delivering on a promise he made a year ago -- Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has announced plans to impose municipal control on the mob-dominated Fulton Fish Market. This is welcome news for wholesalers who have suffered decades of bribery and extortion; for consumers forced to pay prices inflated by shakedowns and other transactional costs of crime, and for the city's economy as a whole. Over the years, the market's volume has shrunk dramatically as racketeers have driven suppliers and their refrigerated trucks to satellite markets elsewhere on the East Coast.
With $800 million in annual revenues, Fulton remains the country's largest fish and seafood market and the third-largest in the world. To visitors who take the early-morning tours, it still conveys the romance and energy captured in Joseph Mitchell's New Yorker essays years ago. To insiders, however, it is a place where fraud and payoffs are routine costs of daily business. And to the city and Federal prosecutors, it has been a source of constant frustration. 
 Fifty years ago, Thomas E. Dewey sent the infamous "Socks" Lanza to prison for using Seafood Workers Local 359 as an instrument of extortion and a personal piggy bank. In 1982 Federal authorities imprisoned Carmine Romano, a union official, for essentially the same reasons. Nevertheless, the market has remained the private turf of New York's leading Mafia families.
Mr. Giuliani, who is not a romantic when it comes to crime, now proposes to change all that. Under his plan, part of which will require City Council approval, the city for the first time would investigate, license and regulate all the market's businesses and its 800 or so workers. Any company with criminal ties would be denied a license and kicked out.
Mr. Giuliani also proposes to renegotiate the leases of wholesale dealers, who have been allowed to pay bargain-basement rents and to sublease space without city permission to "phantom dealers" who often disappear after running up big bills with out-of-town seafood suppliers. A 1992 study estimated the fair-market rental value of the leases at about $3 million -- fully $2.7 million more than the city now receives. Any increased income could be used to help pay for an overdue modernization of the market that will help entice business.
Mayor Giuliani has also targeted the strong arm tactics of the market's unlicensed unloaders who demand outrageous fees for prompt handling of perishable goods, as well as so-called "loaders" who purport to provide parking-lot security.
In a sense, Mr. Giuliani has come full circle. His investigation of Mafia influence eight years ago led to the appointment of a temporary Federal administrator. The administrator, Frank Wohl, made some progress but it has long been clear that only City Hall could finish the job.
Will Mr. Giuliani succeed where so many others have failed? Gerald McMahon, a lawyer for most of the unloading and loading companies, dismisses the plan as just another transitory scheme "to clean up the market when it does not need to be cleaned up."
But this is not a Mayor to be underestimated when he sets his mind to a problem. Council Speaker Peter Vallone has given his tentative approval to the fish market initiative. He can help fight corruption and generate badly needed revenue for the city by promptly rallying Council colleagues to approve whatever legislation is required.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); MAFIA FULTON FISH MARKET (70%); CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); MAFIA FULTON FISH MARKET (70%); CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ORGANIZED CRIME; EDITORIALS FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); BRIBERY (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



96 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Cold-War Nostalgia

 BODY:
As part of their Contract With America, House Republicans are pressing ahead with a mischievous piece of legislation that would undo the Clinton Administration's modest efforts to adjust U.S. national security policy to post-cold-war realities. The bill, H.R. 7, has cleared three committees and seems headed toward House passage.
The legislation would increase pressure for higher defense spending, revive efforts to develop "star wars" missile defense systems, encourage reckless expansion of NATO defense guarantees to Eastern Europe and hobble U.S. participation in United Nations peacekeeping. It would also undermine Presidential authority by creating an unnecessary national security commission designed primarily to amplify the voice of the Republican Congressional leadership. 
 Despite the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the bill is built around the dubious assumption that a decade of modest defense cuts under Presidents Reagan, Bush and Clinton have seriously weakened American security.
At a time when no great power poses an immediate military threat to the United States and Republicans are poised to make deep cuts in domestic programs, there is no justification for increased defense spending. Certainly not on a missile defense system that is impractical, wildly expensive and designed to defeat a threat greatly diminished by the demise of the Soviet military.
Beyond these budgetary follies, the legislation takes a dangerously simplistic approach to expanding NATO by encouraging the early inclusion of East European countries. For now, these countries need help building democracy and market economies, not a military shield against a hollow Russian Army. The timing and pace of NATO expansion are delicate questions that cannot be micromanaged by Congress.
The drafters seem to view U.N. peacekeeping primarily as a danger to American lives and policies, rather than a cost-effective way to share the burdens of policing cease-fires and enforcing international resolutions. The bill would restrict American participation by limiting the kinds of missions Washington could join, reducing U.S. financial support and tightening the terms for American involvement when peacekeepers are under foreign command.
There is little need for that. When the U.S. contributes large numbers of troops to a U.N. operation, as in Haiti, an American military officer is generally in overall command. Participation in these missions, large or small, only takes place with the approval of Washington, and any enforcement operations ordered by the Security Council are subject to U.S. veto.
The bill does make a useful contribution by stipulating that American equipment contributed to U.N. operations be counted against the regular U.S. peacekeeping assessment. There is no reason for the U.S. to pay a hidden subsidy on top of an already excessive share of the costs.
President Clinton and Congressional democrats are understandably preoccupied with the Republican legislative march on domestic issues, but they cannot afford to ignore the advancement of this bill. House committee action eliminated some of its most egregious features, but much mischief remains. Without considerable further revision, it will undermine deficit-reduction efforts, twist defense strategy and project Congress into areas of foreign policy management best left to the President and his Cabinet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (56%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NATIONAL SECURITY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NATIONAL SECURITY (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); VETO (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); APPROVALS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



97 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Tilting the Scales

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
Prevent victims of securities fraud from suing. Immunize company officials who manipulate the price of stock by false statements. Stop lawsuits against accountants and lawyers who were involved in savings-and-loan scams.
Good ideas? Not many Americans would think so. But those are some of the things that would result from passage of a bill, H.R. 10, that is expected to reach the House floor in about two weeks. It would carry out point 9 of Newt Gingrich's Contract With America. 
 "The Common Sense Legal Reform Act," it is called -- another of the wonderfully Orwellian names coined for provisions of the contract. A more accurate title would be the Protect the Wrongdoers Act.
Title I of H.R. 10, on tort reform, makes proposals to limit ordinary damage suits, especially those over faulty products. Title II, which has had less attention, would make drastic changes in securities law.
Under present law, for example, an investor who claims he was a victim of securities fraud must prove that the defendant he is suing had a reckless disregard for the truth. H.R. 10 would impose an even higher standard of proof: that the defendant knowingly engaged in securities fraud. That would be extremely hard for victims to prove, perhaps impossible in many cases.
The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Arthur Levitt Jr., said last week that the standard of knowing fraud "could create a legal incentive [for company officials] to ignore indications of fraud. The phrase 'ignorance is bliss' could take on new meaning."
Another provision of Title II would make the loser in any private lawsuit over securities pay the lawyers' fees of the winner. This would be extremely intimidating to small, middle-class investors -- because company defendants could run up huge legal bills and an investor who sued would risk bankruptcy if he or she lost.
Utah's securities director, Mark Griffin, warned last week against the loser-pay rule. He is the spokesman for all 50 state securities regulators on the pending legislation.
"If we make the courts the playground for the very rich," Mr. Griffin said -- "that is, those who can afford to pay the expenses of the other party -- we have profoundly changed our judicial system."
Title I of H.R. 10, on tort suits, would also make losers pay the winners' legal fees. That rule, used in England, has been a rallying cry for conservative tort reformers in this country.
But now a powerful English voice has been raised against the English rule. The Economist, a conservative magazine skeptical of lawyers, urged in its Jan. 14 issue that Britain abandon the loser-pay rule.
"Enormous numbers of mostly middle-class people" simply cannot use the courts, The Economist said, because they must pay for the other side's lawyers if they lose. "For most people this means that they are risking financial ruin."
Today in Britain, The Economist said, "only the very wealthy can afford the costs and risks of most litigation. This offends one of the most basic principles of a free society: equality before the law."
Some proposals for reform of American tort law make good sense. One is to limit punitive damages. The Supreme Court has just agreed to review the award of $2 million to a man who bought a car without being told that its paint had been refinished to correct a defect. Such absurdities should not happen.
But H.R. 10 sweeps far more broadly than what could be called reform. As Mr. Griffin of Utah put it, in the name of stopping "frivolous lawsuits" it sees to it that "there are no lawsuits at all."
The bill might well kill the suits filed on behalf of pension funds and other entities that hold Orange County, California, bonds -- suits against Merrill Lynch, the firm that gave the county investment advice. Wall Street firms, not surprisingly, are among the enthusiastic supporters of H.R. 10.
Accounting firms, too. Some had to pay heavy damages for their failures in the S.&L. scandal. Their political action committees have given $4.4 million to Congressional candidates in the last four years, and they are pressing for "reform."
The effect of H.R. 10, and its real purpose, are to insulate the rich and powerful from being called to account at law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (51%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (51%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); LITIGATION (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); TORTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US STATE SECURITIES REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY NEWT GINGRICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



98 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: California Looks To Era of Growth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Leaders in States Pledge to Reduce Taxes This Year" (front page, Jan. 30) contains a flagrant error, which strongly prejudices the argument for Gov. Pete Wilson's 15 percent cut in California's personal and corporate income tax rates. You state that "many are based on optimistic economic assumptions," and "Gov. Pete Wilson's proposed 15 percent cut in personal and income tax assumes 5.9 percent annual economic growth in the state and a victory in California's lawsuit against the Federal Government to recover costs related to illegal immigration." 
 Nothing could be further from the truth. As chairman of the Governor's task force on tax reform and reduction, I can assure you that the 5.9 percent figure is for nominal income growth, the sum of economic growth and inflation. This includes slightly under 3 percent real growth, and slightly over 3 percent inflation. The real growth assumption is below that of the Congressional Budget Office for the entire economy.
The growth of nominal income is more than 3 percentage points below that of the most widely quoted state economic forecast, that of U.C.L.A.'s business forecasting unit. Their real growth is more than twice that assumed for 1995 by our task force.
The economic assumptions were designed to be cautious. Virtually every economist would agree that a state or region coming out of a deeper recession than the national average would catch up over time. California's unemployment rate is still over 7 percent, compared with the national rate of 5.4 percent.
Hence, most private analysts, in academe or Wall Street, believe on balance California should grow more rapidly than the national average over the next few years.
While California and other states are suing the Federal Government for reimbursement for providing federally mandated services for illegal immigrants, and should prevail in court, the state's budget balance, or ability to reduce tax rates, does not depend on full reimbursement of these costs.
 
MICHAEL J. BOSKIN
Professor of Economics
Stanford University
Stanford, Calif., Jan. 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RECESSION (75%); TRENDS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: BOSKIN, MICHAEL J (PROF) PETE BARTON WILSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1995



99 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
Job growth was surprisingly weak in January, with the unemployment rate rising to 5.7 percent, the Government said. The report provided the clearest sign yet that the economy is cooling off. For all practical purposes, the rise of three-tenths of a point in the jobless rate last month was the first real increase in unemployment in two and a half years. The latest figures indicated that the interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve may have done their job. [Page 1.] In New York State, unemployment rose to 6 percent. The jobless rate jumped to 7.7 percent in New York City and 7.2 percent in New Jersey. [44.]
President Clinton proposed an increase in the minimum wage, by 90 cents, to $5.15 an hour, over two years. [1.] 

Markets
 
Stocks surged after the weak employment report suggested that the Federal Reserve might curb its policy of raising interest rates. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 5.86 points. [33.]
The dollar gained against other leading currencies, bolstered by rallies in bond and stock markets in the United States. [43.]
Heating oil and natural gas prices climbed after forecasts showed a cold week ahead in the Midwest and Northeast. [43.]
Treasury bonds staged a strong rally, with the yield on the 30-year bond falling to its lowest level since September. [44.]
 
International
 
The Mounties are in hot pursuit of their royalties. To raise money, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police plans to license the image of the Mountie in his scarlet tunic and wide-brimmed hat. [33.]
 
Companies
 
The F.T.C. cleared a $1.42 billion takeover of QVC by Tele-Communications and Comcast, even though agency lawyers had recommended blocking the deal. The decision crowns Tele-Communications the undisputed king of TV home shopping. [33.]
Sea-Land Service plans to resume shipping out of Kobe, Japan, months earlier than had been anticipated. No containers or other goods have been flowing through the port -- Japan's largest -- since the devasting earthquake on Jan 18. [33.]
Ford Motor said sales rose 2.9 percent last month, led by light-truck sales. The increase suggested that demand in the auto market is stronger than previously believed. [33.]
Quaker Oats agreed to sell its European pet foods division to Dalgety P.L.C. of London for $700 million in cash. [35.]
An investment group is planning to buy the No. 2 supermarket chain in Chicago. The group, led by Yucaipa, will pay $750 million for Dominick's Finer Foods, a person close to the deal said. [35.]
Polaroid plans to dismiss up to 5 percent of its work force. It also plans to increase a stock buyback program by $100 million. [35.]
I.B.M. is moving away from its old corporate culture: the company will sell its 30-year-old headquarters building in Armonk, N.Y., and ditch a dress code that called for dark suits and starched white shirts for men, dresses or skirts for women. [24.]
 
Your Money
 
The right time to make smart choices about financial goals is at the early stages of a career. Two young professionals received the recommendations of financial advisers on how to build their savings and investments for the future. [31.]
A bit of studying is needed when parents invest in zero-coupon bonds to save up college tuition for their children. [31.]
This year, taxpayers will find it difficult to obtain loans against their expected tax refunds because the I.R.S. will no longer tell lenders whether there are claims against the refunds. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (62%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DALGETY PLC (62%); DOMINICK'S FINER FOODS INC (61%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); ROYALTIES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); HEATING OIL PRICES (69%); HEATING OIL (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); CORPORATE CULTURE (60%); PET FOODS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



100 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Weak Employment Report Helps Dollar Rise Broadly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose broadly yesterday, gaining on the strength of rallies in the bond and stock markets after a weaker-than-expected January employment report diminished fears of inflation by suggesting slower economic growth.
A sustained rally in American stocks and bonds would bolster the dollar, attracting money from overseas markets. Investors who cash out abroad and purchase stocks and bonds in the United States must first buy dollars. 
 "If the capital flows come back, you're going to see the dollar start to edge up," said Earl Johnson, a vice president at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.
But some analysts noted that the dollar made only moderate gains yesterday in less-than-robust trading. They said the currency remained under pressure from Mexico's troubles, an expected leveling-off of American interest rates and other factors.
"Over all, it was a very good day for the dollar," said Gary Sakamoto, vice president at National Westminster Bank P.L.C. in New York. "But it was a very civilized move; it didn't take off. We're far from a bullish trend."
In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.5267 German marks from 1.5185 marks on Thursday. It also rose to 1.2905 Swiss francs from 1.2815 francs and to 99.85 Japanese yen from 99.43 yen. The British pound fell to $1.5635 from $1.5815.
The dollar fell in early New York trading after the Labor Department reported that the economy created just 134,000 jobs last month, far fewer than analysts had expected.
The data suggested that the Federal Reserve had succeeded in slowing the economy and reducing the threat of higher inflation with seven increases in short-term interest rates over the last year.
"Many people think we're getting close to a peak in interest rates," Mr. Johnson of Harris Trust said. "We could get a stock and bond rally that would attract foreign money into U.S. markets and discourage U.S. investors from going abroad."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWBD (LSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (84%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); BRITISH POUND (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



101 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: WEAKNESS IN JOBS SIGNALS A SLOWING OF THE ECONOMY

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3

 BODY:
In the clearest sign yet that the economy is cooling off, the Government reported today that job growth was surprisingly weak in January and that unemployment rose to 5.7 percent.
For all practical purposes, the three-tenths of a point rise in the jobless rate last month was the first increase in unemployment in two and a half years. There was an artificial jump, which made comparisons invalid, when a new method of computing the jobless rate was introduced at the beginning of 1994. 
 The latest figures, while subject to quirks of weather and statistics that bar definitive conclusions, reduced the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates again soon, private analysts said. The Federal Reserve has been lifting rates in its effort to prevent inflation from accelerating as the economy advances closer to the low unemployment rate and tight labor market conditions that have historically led to higher wages and prices.
"The burden of proof is going to be on those who believe additional tightening is needed," said Richard B. Berner, chief economist at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
Securities markets seemed to share the view that the Federal Reserve's yearlong ratcheting up of interest rates could well be finished for now. Bond prices soared enough to push long-term rates down to 7.62 percent, the lowest level since September, and stocks surged as the Dow Jones industrial average rose 57.87 points, to 3,928.64. [Page 33.]
The Federal Reserve had noted earlier signs of an emerging slowdown, but labeled them "tentative" when it raised rates this week for the seventh time in a year. The signs included soft spots in housing and vehicle sales and a buildup of inventories in warehouses and on store shelves.
Today's report showed that the weakness in the job market last month was widely scattered, with joblessness rising to 8.2 percent in California, from 7.7 percent, and from 4.7 percent to 5.3 in Illinois. Unemployment in New York rose to 6 percent and it jumped to 7.2 percent in New Jersey. [Page 44.]
A Federal Reserve spokesman said today that the central bank had not yet seen the Labor Department's report on the January job market when it took action on Wednesday. He said the customary procedure was followed in which the Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, receives economic reports less than 24 hours before their official release, in this case on Thursday evening.
But not all of the evidence pointed in the same direction. Indeed, analysts said that even if Fed officials had known the contents of today's report it probably would have made little difference. Despite the rise in the unemployment rate and a payroll expansion of only 134,000 -- about half what had been anticipated -- the report showed the economy was still quite healthy.
The latest reading on consumer confidence also showed that the economy retains considerable momentum. The University of Michigan's final consumer sentiment index for January rose to 97.6 from 95.1 in December. The university also said its index of current economic conditions rose to 112, from 104.9 in December.
"Strength remains," John E. Silvia, an economist at Kemper Financial Services, told his clients. "The economy is not falling off a cliff and the unemployment rate is not rising rapidly."
Echoing that point, the Commerce Department, in a separate report, said factory orders rose 1.7 percent in December and jumped 10.2 percent for all of 1994. The yearly advance was the biggest since 1979 and was nearly double the increase of 1993.
"It confirms other information suggesting the manufacturing sector has good momentum," Carl Palash, an economist for MCM Moneywatch, a market research and analysis firm, told The Associated Press.
Indeed, in what Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, called the "brightest spot" of the jobs report, manufacturing employment climbed 39,000 in January. That is the fourth straight monthly gain, for a total increase of 161,000, in part reflecting the nation's powerful export drive of recent months as Europe and other areas of the world gathered economic strength.
An official said 15,000 of last month's 39,000 increase in jobs were in export-sensitive industries, defined as those in which at least 20 percent of their output is shipped abroad.
Another sign of vigor was an expansion by 18 minutes in the private-sector workweek and a six-minute expansion of factory overtime to a record 4.9 hours. Workers in the automotive industry averaged a high 46.6 hours a week last month, the report also showed.
Construction jobs grew 27,000, aided by unseasonably warm weather throughout the country, though this took a toll on jobs in other endeavors, like ski resorts. Employment in retailing was little changed.
Reflecting the lengthened workweek and buoyant factory sector, the index of aggregate weekly hours climbed 1 percent, to 132.3. Payroll jobs were revised down over all by 46,000 for December, but this was exactly offset by an upward revision for November.
The department's survey of households, on which the unemployment rate is calculated, showed people losing jobs but remaining in the work force, which swelled a substantial 411,000 last month.
The newly unemployed, those jobless for less than five weeks, jumped by 350,000 last month. But Government and private analysts caution that January figures are particularly hard to interpret because of the inflows and outflows of holiday workers.
On the other hand, it has become very clear that people of Hispanic origin are finding the nation's job market increasingly difficult; the Hispanic unemployment rate rose 1 point in January to 10.2 percent, the first time it has been as high as the rate for blacks since these statistics began in 1973. As recently as 12 months ago, the black rate was 2.5 points higher -- 13 percent compared with 10.5 percent.
In January 1985, the black rate was 4.7 points higher than the Hispanic rate.
By region, the worst performance last month was in the Northeast, where the jobless rate climbed three-tenths of a point, to 6.1 percent. The rate edged up a tenth of a point in the West, to 6.7 percent, and declined in the South (to 5.3 from 5.4) and in the Midwest (to 4.3 from 4.5).
Before rounding, the national jobless rate last month was 5.6741 percent, up from 5.4318, a change just above the threshold for statistical significance.
Ms. Abraham played down the rise in hourly earnings by noting that it reflected the fact that job gains were more concentrated than usual in industries with high earnings and long workweeks and that this series has historically shown substantial month-to-month variation.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
One Dissent in Fed Vote
 WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 (Bloomberg Business News) -- Federal Reserve policy makers were nearly unanimous in their decision to leave interest rates unchanged at their final meeting of 1994, according to minutes of the Dec. 20 session, which were released today.
The 11-to-1 vote of the Federal Open Market Committee more than a month ago left the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks at 5.5 percent. The lone dissenter, John P. LaWare, favored an immediate rate increase. "In his opinion, the expansion remained quite strong," the minutes said. "He saw a serious risk of rising inflation."
The Fed's decision to stay on the sidelines lasted until Wednesday when the committee raised the Federal funds rate by half a point, to 6 percent. The full Fed board also voted 7 to 0 to raise immediately the mostly symbolic discount rate on loans to its member banks by half a point, to 5.25 percent. The continued strength of the economy was cited by the policy makers as one reason they increased rates for the seventh time in less than a year.
The committee meets eight times a year, at intervals of five to eight weeks. Deliberations are held in secret and the minutes of the meetings are released on a delayed basis several weeks later.
The committee comprises the seven Fed governors and the presidents of the Fed's 12 district banks, five of whom can vote at any one time.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Out of Work" shows number of jobless from 1/90 to 1/95 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); 'Factory Orders' shows manufacturers' total new orders from 7/93 to 1/94 (Source: Commerce Department); "The Labor Picture in January" shows unemployment rate, average weekly hours worked and type of work over the last 12 months (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BONDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); BOND MARKETS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



102 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Jump on Evidence Of Slowing Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The bond market rallied sharply yesterday on fresh evidence that the economy is slowing, leading some investors to speculate that the Federal Reserve will slow or halt its policy of raising interest rates.
 A weaker-than-expected employment report yesterday was the clearest sign yet that the Fed had done its job in keeping inflation subdued. The rally showed that investors are willing to lock into longer maturities if they are confident that the economy has cooled and that lower rates lie ahead.A flurry of buying sent the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond down to its lowest level since Sept. 8. Yields and prices move in opposite directions. Other maturities also rallied strongly.
 The price of the 30-year bond jumped 1 9/32 percentage points, to 9817/32 , for a yield of 7.62 percent, down from 7.74 percent on Thursday. For bondholders, it meant that for every $1,000 invested, they made $12.81.
 The Labor Department reported yesterday that the nation's unemployment rate rose to 5.7 percent last month from 5.4 percent in December as the economy created the fewest jobs in nearly a year. Only 136,000 jobs were added to the payrolls outside of the farm sector, the smallest number since the 101,000 gain in January 1994.
 The report, analysts said, provided compelling evidence that the economy was finally beginning to lose momentum, dragged down by the cumulative weight of the Fed's seven increases in short-term rates since a year ago.
 Analysts and traders said they saw less need for the Fed, which raised rates on Wednesday by 50 basis points, to move again. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
 "We all recognize they're going to step back a little bit," Richard Schlanger, who helps manage $1.5 billion of bonds at Pioneering Management in Boston, told Bloomberg Business News.
 Indeed, the spread between the yield of the 2-year note and that of the 30-year bond was 48 basis points yesterday, up from 38 basis points Thursday. A widening spread indicates that the market does not expect another Fed rate increase for some time.
 The weakness of the employment report caught some investors by surprise, causing some large market participants to cover short positions.
 Short-covering occurs when traders buy back borrowed securities they had previously sold short in the hopes of profiting from lower prices. But if prices begin to rise, instead of fall, short-sellers needs to cover their positions by buying back securities to limit their losses.
 While the employment report cheered a battered bond market, economists noted that the data also disclosed some signs of inflation, which could halt the rally, or limit follow-through buying in the next session.
 Eugene J. Sherman, director of research at M. A. Schapiro & Company, noted that the report showed substantial increases in the workweek and in hourly earnings. "So, if you combined the hourly earnings with the lengthened workweek, and the additional number of people working," he said, "you'll find a big increase in personal income for the month." Such data suggest then, he said, that the economy is still very strong.
 Analysts also noted that the market faces a difficult task of absorbing a heavy supply of new securities next week. The Treasury is selling $40 billion of new 3-year, 10-year and 30-year debt securities as part of its quarterly borrowing needs, on top of the $27.6 billion in bills that it sells regularly each week.
 "Next week's refunding will be more difficult to sell," Mr. Sherman said, "because investors would be buying securities after a very substantial rally. And history shows that is not a good time to buy, especially if there are no changes in the fundamentals of the market. You still have several months before the last tightening by the Fed takes effect."
 In when-issued trading, the 3-year note to be sold on Tuesday was being offered at a price to yield 7.34 percent, while the 10-year note to be sold on Wednesday was offered at a price to yield 7.50 percent. The 30-year bond, the final leg of the refunding on Thursday, was offered at a price to yield 7.58 percent.
 Robin Mesch, chief analyst for Thomson Research in Boston, saw yesterday as a good opportunity for a bear market rally. "I think the market has been overdone all week long," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT BONDS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); EVIDENCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



103 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Big Rally For Stocks And Bonds

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Wall Street rejoiced yesterday as Main Street showed signs its economy was slowing and unemployment was rising.
In the sixth-busiest trading day on record, the Dow Jones industrial average staged its biggest one-day gain so far this year and its largest jump since last summer. The Dow rose 57.87 points, or 1.5 percent, to 3,928.64, finishing above 3,900 for the first time since Jan. 18. 
 Government data on employment in January brought new hopes that inflation would not rise so sharply in 1995, as traders once feared. Inflation would hurt stocks, bonds and the value of the dollar. Now, the Federal Reserve may curb its policy of raising interest rates, traders are starting to speculate.
"This is it," said Ray Hines, editor of Marketmetrics, a technical-analysis newsletter in Sarasota, Fla. "The Fed's through tightening money."
The employment report also set off a strong bond rally, sending the price of the 30-year Treasury bond up and its yield down to its lowest level since September. [Page 44.]
A few analysts are going so far as to say that the Fed, having succeeded in its inflation fight, may even cut rates later this year. Such a development would be sure to send the Dow soaring. Mr. Hines, who sees a chance that the Fed may cut rates as early as midyear, said the Dow could rise as high as 4,500 to 5,000 by the third quarter.
Traders often react in a seemingly paradoxical way -- buying stocks, bonds and dollars -- when bad news is reported about American businesses having trouble making sales and thus hiring fewer people.
Although the so-called headline economic indicators, like the Consumer Price Index, may so far indicate little inflation, analysts say, many fine-print indicators, like rising prices for raw materials, have implied for months that a rise in inflation is all but inevitable.
To try to hold down the overall price rise, the Federal Reserve had held to a stern policy of raising interest rates, which hurts job creation and growth of business profits.
Neal M. Soss, co-founder of Cotton & Soss L.P., an economic consulting firm, said that Wall Street was reacting so favorably to yesterday's job-creation report because it came on the heels of reports of sluggish housing sales and signs of a slowdown in automobile showrooms.
It was just such a report on Jan. 13 of an unexpected slump in December retail sales that prompted a 49.46-point rally in the Dow. Moreover, other reports, like the Producer Price Index next Friday and the Consumer Price Index on Feb. 15, may extend the rally.
The Labor Department reported yesterday that January job creation was 134,000, little more than half the 238,000 that Wall Street expected and the smallest gain since last January, when 101,000 jobs were created. Unemployment rose to 5.7 percent, the first increase in a year, and was far above the expected 5.4 percent.
"We're not talking about a recession here," Mr. Soss said. "The Fed is not aiming for a recession, and Wall Street is not looking for one, either. But they are looking for an economy with sustainable growth with low inflation."
Other measures of the market showed strong gains. The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index rose 5.86 points, to 478.65, and the smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 8.42 points, to 772.06.
But technical factors may also lead to a rally. Mr. Hines of Marketmetrics said, "There is just one massive amount of shorts in this market, and they could drive this market on any given day."
Mr. Hines referred to professional short-sellers who sell borrowed shares in the expectation that the price will fall, enabling them to profit by repaying their loans with lower-priced shares. When prices do not fall as they expect, the market is squeezed into what is known as a short-covering rally, jargon for professional traders being forced to buy stocks to stem their losses.
Still, any number of negative factors could also slow any rally. Yesterday's job report showed a large jump in hourly earnings, the largest gain since October, and higher wages often lead to higher prices. Moreover, factory-use figures will also be reported on Feb. 15, and those figures are likely to show continued strength.
Yesterday, the Dow rose as much as 51.48 points shortly after noon, touching off circuit-breaker rules on the New York Stock Exchange, which are intended to slow high-speed computer-guided trading.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange passed the 200-million- share mark at noon, when volume of fewer than 150 million shares is more typical. By the end of the day, 441 million shares changed hands, just below the 449.3-million-share figure posted on Oct. 21, 1987, in the aftermath of the stock market crash.
Cyclical stocks and stocks sensitive to interest rates generally benefited. For example, the Aluminum Company of America rose 3 1/4, to 83 7/8, and Allied Signal rose 1 1/2, to 37 1/4. Boeing, despite recent announcements of layoffs, may be set for a recovery, analysts said, so its stock rose 3/8, to 46 5/8.
And banks and financial-services companies also rose. Travelers Inc. rose 2 1/4, to 39 1/2, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, better knonw as Freddie Mac, which packages mortgages as securities, rose 3 1/2, to 57 5/8. First Interstate Bancorp rose 2 3/8, to 78 1/4, and Nationsbank Corporation rose 2 1/2, to 49.
The most active stock, at 8.9 million shares, was Intel, which hit a 52-week high of 74 1/2, before closing at 73 1/2, up 15/16 .
Earlier yesterday, stocks ended lower in Tokyo. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed down 65.33 points, or 0.35 percent, at 18,538.97.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARASOTA, FL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INFLATION (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (63%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY RAY HINES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



104 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: After Delay, F.T.C. Allows QVC's Takeover

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3

 BODY:
In a decision that will make Tele-Communications Inc. of Denver the undisputed ruler of television home shopping, the Federal Trade Commission voted unanimously today to allow it and the Comcast Corporation to take over QVC Inc. for $1.42 billion.
The 4-to-0 vote came after a four-month investigation, during which staff lawyers at the agency had recommended blocking the deal. Tele-Communications already owns a controlling stake in Home Shopping Network, the only other nationwide television shopping channel, and some agency lawyers argued that the Denver cable television giant would stifle competition. 
 Comcast and Tele-Communications already own 35 percent of QVC, and have been seeking to gain complete control. Under the deal, an all-cash sale that is scheduled to close by midnight Thursday, Comcast will increase its stake to 57 percent and Tele-Communications will end up with 43 percent.
Executives involved in the acquisition said they were pleased by the decision, though they sharply attacked the agency for delaying the deal.
"I don't want to appear to be ungrateful for a positive resolution, but this cost shareholders interest on their money for a full third of a year," said Barry Diller, the head of QVC. "This cost Comcast, T.C.I. and QVC millions and millions of dollars over a case that could have been resolved in a few hours of direct conversations. This is a case of staff gone mad."
The executives argued that the F.T.C. investigation effectively tied up the money of shareholders in QVC. The two cable television companies had agreed to pay $46 a share, a premium of several dollars over its trading value, so people who wanted to receive the selling price had to hold their stock for four months.
Agency officials refused to discuss their decision in public. In a letter to the companies, the F.T.C. merely said that "it now appears that no further action is warranted" and closed its investigation.
Staff lawyers at the commission's Bureau of Competition had recommended several weeks ago that the deal should be blocked because Tele-Communications would have a major stake in both of the companies that now dominate the $2 billion-a-year home shopping industry.
But the two cable companies persuaded senior officials that the staff recommendation was wrong, arguing that the F.T.C. should examine the deal against the backdrop of the entire retailing market and not just the television shopping market. They also pointed out that antitrust lawyers at the Justice Department had approved the purchase of the Home Shopping Network by Tele-Communications in 1993, even though Tele-Communications already owned part of QVC at that time.
As a result, the staff recommendations were opposed by the directors of both the Bureau of Competition and the Bureau of Economics. After meeting with company executives earlier this week, the commissioners decided to follow suit.
Today's decision removes the last obstacle to consummating the deal. The companies had originally set Monday as a deadline for closing the transaction, but said today they had extended the deadline until midnight Thursday in order to complete the final details.
Robert Thomson, senior vice president of Tele-Communications, said he was pleased but frustrated. "This has been one of the most unfortunate experiences we've ever had with the Federal Government -- and that's saying a lot," he remarked this evening.
The F.T.C.'s approval was announced after the stock market closed. Earlier, Tele-Communications ended Nasdaq trading up 25 cents at $21.875, while Comcast gained 50 cents, to $15.25, and QVC rose 37.5 cents, to $45.875.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC); TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; COMCAST CORP; HOME SHOPPING NETWORK INC COMCAST CORP (93%); QVC INC (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: QVC INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC); TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; COMCAST CORP; HOME SHOPPING NETWORK INC FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L BARRY DILLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



105 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Up to 600 Jobs May Be Cut At Polaroid

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The Polaroid Corporation said yesterday that it would dismiss up to 5 percent of its work force, sell $50 million in real estate and push consumer products harder in developing countries like India and China. ,
The company, which has been under pressure from institutional investors to improve its profitability, said the new program would result in annual cost savings of $25 million to $35 million. But the stock market reacted coolly to the announcement, sending the company's shares down 12.5 cents, to $30.875, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Polaroid also said it would designate $100 million to repurchase about 7 percent of its own stock on the open market. That is in addition to the $20 million still remaining on a previous buyback plan.
"Polaroid's profitability is improving and time is validating the soundness of our strategic business plan," I. MacAllister Booth, the company's chairman, said. "Despite these encouraging developments, we need to manage our profitability over the short term more aggressively if we are to attract and retain investors."
Last month, the company, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., acknowledged that it would not meet its own goals for improving earnings and that it was reviewing a range of steps to improve earnings this year. The company agreed to form a committee of outside directors that would meet at least three times a year without Mr. Booth, who is also chief executive.
The purpose of these committees is to review management actions and act as advocates for shareholders' interests.
In yesterday's announcement, Polaroid said it would cut its worldwide work force by 400 to 600 employees and take a charge of $40 million to $60 million to cover the costs of severance. It said that some manufacturing plants would be consolidated and product-development plans would be altered.
Polaroid also said that it would scale back incentives and promotions aimed at dealers and direct them at customers to increase sales of instant photographic products. The likely result is that dealers will reduce inventories and factory orders, producing an operating loss of about $20 million in the first quarter of this year in addition to the restructuring charge, the company said.
As sales of its instant photography products slow in the United States, Polaroid is turning its focus overseas. In China, the company will establish three regional sales offices and expand its sales force and distribution to increase sales of cameras and instant film to the increasingly prosperous Chinese. The company hopes to increase sales quickly in areas where there are few processors of conventional film.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PRD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP POLAROID CORP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLAROID CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; CHINA; INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LABOR FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN I MACALLISTER BOOTH (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



106 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Jumps in New York Region

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
As bleak as winter, regional employment figures for January arrived yesterday from the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Labor Department.
 While the national unemployment rate was climbing last month to 5.7 percent, from 5.4 percent in December, New York City's unemployment rate surged a full percentage point, to 7.7 percent, as did New Jersey's, which reached 7.2 percent. In New York State, the rate rose to 6 percent, from 5.7 in the previous month. 
 "I think basically these first 1995 readings on the regional labor market show an economy that's slipping, with unemployment moving upward, erasing the December improvement that we had seen briefly," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The recovery, which seemed to be moving ahead through midsummer of last year, has faltered in recent months, and the January figures provide evidence of a further weakening.
 "So January doesn't mark a change in direction," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "It tends more to confirm the problems we've seen in this region in recent months. It has been a slowing recovery that slowed further in January. In New York State, it stalled."
 Connecticut is not among the 11 states for which the Labor Department provides separate figures when it releases the national jobs data each month.
 Illustrating how the region has lagged behind the national recovery, Mr. Ehrenhalt said the United States had made up all of the 1.8 million jobs lost during the recession and added 5 million more.
 In New York State, where the downturn began in 1989 and reached bottom in November 1992 with a loss of 600,000 jobs, only about 125,000 have been recovered.
 In New Jersey, where the depth of the recession was reached in March 1992 with a loss of 260,000 jobs, about half of the lost jobs have been recovered.
 "New York City is at the heart of New York State's problem, although there are problems upstate, too," Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
 The proportion of the population of working age -- from 16 up -- that is active in the city's labor market, either by being employed or seeking work, fell below 54 percent in January. Nationally, the comparable figure is 66.8 percent.
 "Here, employment has been on a fairly consistent downswing since last July," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "We have a shift from growth to decline in construction and in finance."
 In addition, he said, job growth in the service industries came to a halt; jobs in city government are in decline; erosion of factory jobs is continuing, and cuts are impending in health care, the city's No. 1 employer, with 300,000 jobs.
 Mr. Ehrenhalt, who, at 69, is to retire at the end of February after 39 years with the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said he was reluctant to leave on a negative note.
 "The city has a lot of things going for it," he said, expressing confidence in its potential for recovery and economic growth.
 And, he added, "It's got this marvelous capacity for surprise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (77%); 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE SAMUEL M EHRENHALT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



107 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Forecasts of a Cold Week Drive Up the Prices of Fuel

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Heating oil and natural gas prices rose sharply for a third day yesterday on forecasts for a cold week in the Midwest and Northeast.
Gasoline prices also surged, after the New York Mercantile Exchange announced measures that allayed traders' fears of falling demand for the current gasoline contract. 
 The trend on other markets was lower, with steep losses in copper, coffee and cotton prices. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities fell 1.02 point, to 232.29.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, wholesale home heating oil for March delivery jumped 0.89 cent, to 49.44 cents a gallon, while March natural gas leaped 4.7 cents, to $1.482 for 1,000 cubic feet, a four-week high.
Meanwhile, March crude oil rose 24 cents, to $18.78 a barrel, and March unleaded gasoline soared 1.4 cents, to 57.35 cents a gallon.
Heating fuels have been extremely weak, with natural gas trading near three-year lows, because of unseasonably mild weather this winter in the Midwest and Northeast.
A change is coming, though, with below-normal temperatures forecast for both regions for at least the next 10 days.
Gasoline prices recovered after the exchange said it was devising a second gasoline futures contract, representing fuel with a minimum 1.5 percent oxygen content. Such a formulation would match a grade that New Jersey wants to be allowed to sell.
Traders had feared the New Jersey plan would result in lower demand for the higher-oxygen fuel traded on the exchange.
Copper prices hit a new two-month low as traders continued their retreat from base metals.
"They're reading the higher interest rates as going to cool the manufacturing portions of the U.S. economy," said Richard Hirsch, a vice president of Deutsche Sharps Pixley Metals Inc. in New York.
The March copper contract fell 2.45 cents, to $1.3125 a pound on the Commodity Exchange of New York.
Coffee prices extended their recent decline on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York as speculators exited the market. Coffee for March delivery plunged 3.85 cents, to $1.5435 a pound, a six-week low.
March cotton ended 1.96 cents lower at 92.14 cents a pound on the New York Cotton Exchange after hitting a new 14-year high of 95.25 cents. Analysts said the volatility could mean the market was peaking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (93%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; HEATING FUEL; GAS (FUEL); PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE MARKETS (93%); FUTURES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE (89%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); WEATHER (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



108 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Do Tuition Bills Loom? Here's Your Homework

BYLINE: By Francis Flaherty 

 BODY:
AS the Federal Reserve raises rates yet again, parents may be drawn even more strongly to zero-coupon bonds, a favored way to turn today's money into tomorrow's tuition. But to earn high marks, buyers must crack the books.
Unlike regular bonds, which give investors periodic interest payments, zeros plow the payments back into the investment and pay the investor everything at maturity. Their charm is certainty. Used for retirement, cruises and down payments as well as school expenses, these bonds "give you a known amount at a known time," said James Lebenthal, a municipal bond dealer in New York. For a set sum now, he said, "parents know that come the year 2006 they'll have Princeton paid for," assuming college costs follow a predictable path. 
 Zero bonds are good for savers, too; no one can fritter away interest payments not received. And, especially for longer maturities, interest can be a big part of the pie. "A $10,000 municipal zero due in 11 years would now sell at around $5,000," Mr. Lebenthal said.
Zeros also have zippier yields than coupon-bearing bonds because of the deferred interest payments, said Mark Wright, an analyst with Morningstar, the fund research company. While a regular Treasury due in 2004 yields 7.57 percent, the zero-coupon version returns 7.71 percent.
But zeroes have limits.
Consider inflation, said John Markese, president of the American Association of Individual Investors in Chicago. "You may get $10,000 in the future for $5,000 today, but that $10,000 is not adjusted for inflation." Investors can project inflation, though such estimates can err greatly, particularly for long time periods.
Such time spans reveal another limit of zeros. "If you have 18 years to get the tuition, use equities, not bonds," Mr. Markese said. Long horizons give stocks growing power and reduces their risk, he said.
Then come the zigzags in zeros' prices as interest rates move. "Zeros are very volatile," Mr. Wright warned. A Treasury due 2016 has a duration of 10.3, meaning its value will rise or fall 10.3 percent with each 1 percent fall or rise, respectively, in rates. But if that same bond is a zero, duration jumps to 20.5.
Zeros' odd traits can trip up even studious investors. One common misconception concerns taxes.
Many people believe that no taxes are owed on zeros until maturity, said James Flynn, a vice president at Chase Manhattan. But they are wrong. If the zero is neither tax-free nor in a tax-deferred account, "people must pay tax on the 'phantom income' during its life," he said.
Investors must also be wary of volatility. In theory, as "buy and hold" investors, most holders of zeros need not worry about price shifts; if the bonds are held to maturity their owners will receive the principal and interest, wherever prices have gone. But investors who plan to buy and hold may find that they need the money before maturity. The lesson: Given zeros' extreme volatility, be sure you can buy and hold unless you are a speculator.
Jeffrey Tyler, who oversees several zero-coupon funds run by the Benham fund family in Mountain View, Calif., has another lesson for the buy-and-hold set.
Called the Benham Target Maturities series, his funds invest in Treasuries of a designated maturity. Mr. Tyler is pleased at the funds' recent turnabout. After heavy 1994 losses, 1995 returns so far range from a healthy 1.71 percent to 3.93 percent. Yet, he shoos those who buy and hold away from his funds.
The funds' yearly fees of about 0.6 percent of assets make them costly for such investors, who will pay less by buying the bonds directly, he explained. His funds work best for active traders who are lured by the zeros' volatility. For them, the fund expenses are low compared with the broker bills that their frequent transactions would otherwise incur.
And Mr. Lebenthal waved investors away from tax-free bonds. "The supply of zeros is so thin in the municipals market that prices are out of whack," he said. Indeed, contrary to the normal situation, coupon-bearing municipal bonds are now yielding more -- and thus costing less -- than comparable zeros.
In buying zeros directly, investors confront more complexities. Banks often charge a flat fee, from $50 to $100, for these bonds. Brokers impose a markup, which is keyed to the bond's face amount and which rises as maturities lengthen. Merrill Lynch charges $1 for every $1,000 of bonds for maturities of three months or less and up to $7.50 per $1,000 for longer terms. Discount brokers? They often mix these approaches.
How can investors compare apples with oranges with a blend of both? They cannot. Instead, they must get a uniform measure of cost.
First, select an appropriate bond -- say, $10,000 of a Treasury that matures in 2005. "Then call three or four sellers and ask for the net yield," which factors in any fees, Mr. Flynn advised. The higher the yield, the better the deal. Many brokers always provide this net, or true, yield, but some may need to be asked.
Alternatively, ask the sellers what the cash outlay for the bond is. The seller with the highest yield should also require the smallest outlay.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "When They Are Good. . ." shows total returns for the Benham Target Maturities series of mutual funds. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTORS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; TUITION; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, FRANCIS BENHAM TARGET MATURITIES (58%); JEFFREY TYLER (56%); JOHN MARKESE (56%); MARK WRIGHT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



109 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: HOW THEY DO IT;
Surviving a Stolen Car Ordeal

 BODY:
On the Sunday after Thankgiving, LaRae Mardesic of Los Angelas discovered that her 1988 Nissan Sentra had been stolen from the carport at her apartment. She alerted police then her insurer, Farmers Insurance Group. "My greatest fear was that they would low-ball me, and I was very cautious when I started to negotiate," she said.
 
Rental -- As an account executive for the United Way who visits companies constantly, Ms. Mardesic needed a replacement qiuckly. Her insurance policy required her to pay for a rental car for the first two days -- $16.99 a day at a special insurance rate. After that, she paid $1.99 a day and the insurer paid the balance until the claim was settled.
 
REIMBURSEMENT -- Ms. Mardesic began working with her insurance claim adjuster. Using a car appraisal service, the adjuster placed the car's value at $4,488. After producing recent receipts for repairs and maintenance, she was credited for 20 to 25 percent of those bills. Farmers also covered the sales tax, the remaining time on the car registration and some contents. Ms. Mardesic received a check for $5,033 on Dec. 21.
 
CAR RECOVERED -- The day she received the check, the police found her car. Ms. Mardesic had the option of keeping the cash or taking her old car back. She did not owe any money on the old car, but she decided to keep the money and trade up to a more reliable car.
 
REPLACEMENT CAR -- She settled on a 1993 Sentra, paying $9,990 including tax and licence. Rather that using the insurance check as a down payment, Ms. Mardesic paid down credit card debt that carried a high annual interest rate, 15.15 percent. She borrowed the full cost of the car with a five year loan at 10.5 percent. Over five years, she will pay $13,083 for the car.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MaRae Mardesic of Los Angelas in her Nissan 1993 Sentra, which has 30,000 miles.
 
Graphs showing what the insurer paid out to Ms. Mardesic and what she paid throughout the stolen car ordeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARMERS GROUP INC (58%); POLICE FOUNDATION (55%); POLICE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (55%); POLICE FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; AUTOMOBILES VEHICLE THEFT (90%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SALES TAX (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); 

PERSON: LARAE MARDESIC (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



110 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Some See a Better Year for Domestic Bonds

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:
The last shall be first.
That's the story behind a rally in municipal bond funds this year. Their bonds were pummeled in 1994 by a confluence of factors: limited supply, rising interest rates, some exposure to high-risk derivative investments and a thin market. Come 1995, the prices were so beaten down that municipal bonds looked good again. 
 Worldwide bond funds, still staggering from problems last year in Europe, are struggling with the recent devaluation of the Mexican peso. Short-term world income funds are in a similar boat, though the losses are less grievous because of their short-term holdings. Because worldwide interest rates generally follow those of the United States, there is apt to be a continuing ripple effect from higher rates here.
Domestically, it's fair to expect a better year in 1995 for bonds, said Jeff Kelley, associate editor, Morningstar Mutual Funds. Interest rate increases should be less drastic, and "I think fund management will be more conservative, because they've been reminded of what rate rises can do to share prices," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); DEVALUATION (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE JEFF KELLEY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



111 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Owners Scrap Salary Cap to Create a Ray of Hope

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3

 BODY:
As baseball's striking players and owners moved in slow motion toward President Clinton's Monday deadline for a settlement, the National Labor Relations Board made its move today, inducing the owners to rescind the salary cap they implemented six weeks ago.
The board, through its general counsel, Fred Feinstein, achieved that feat by informing the owners that it would issue an unfair labor practice complaint against the owners on a charge the players filed Dec. 27, five days after the clubs declared an impasse in negotiations and imposed the cap. 
 "They prematurely imposed a salary cap and other measures," David Parker, the board's information director, said in a news briefing tonight. "There was no legal impasse."
It was unclear if the action would hasten an agreement. The two sides remained far apart in their positions on the game's economic system. The owners want a cap or a payroll tax that would control player salaries; the players are willing to have a tax, but such a slight one that it wouldn't have the owners' desired effect.
Such a tax would be one imposed on team payrolls that exceeded certain thresholds.
However, the Presidential deadline has lent an urgency to the negotiations, and it played a role in the N.L.R.B.'s decision to make its offer to the owners. "Mr. Feinstein was well aware of the President's desire to get an agreement," said Parker, adding that the deadline speeded up the board's process.
If the owners had not agreed to remove their implemented system, the board also was prepared to seek an injunction blocking it in United States District Court. "The owners were aware of that possibility," Parker said.
Although club representatives welcomed the opportunity to "clear the decks" as they try to meet the President's deadline, the union greeted the development as a victory for the players.
"We're back under the old system," Donald Fehr, the union leader, said late tonight. "As of Monday, players will start signing. If the clubs don't sign free agents, they'll be guilty of collusion." The union had imposed a freeze on signing contracts once the owners installed the salary cap system.
Because they became involved in the N.L.R.B.'s maneuver, the two sides did little negotiating today. A small group discussed noneconomic issues, but an evening session that had been scheduled with larger groups was not held. The union was expected to make a counterproposal when negotiators meet Saturday.
Today's action returns the owners and players to their status before the owners imposed the new system Dec. 23. Back then, though, they did not face the Clinton deadline.
The union, for its part, at least does not face the prospect of having the owners declare an impasse and implement the cap in the immediate future because the deadline and a possible third-party settlement could come first.
In a statement, Feinstein said that he would "continue to insist that no unilateral action be taken before the parties are at an impasse."
A lawyer familiar with the negotiations and the President's interest in pushing the two sides toward an agreement said the board was "playing into Clinton's game, putting pressure on the parties to resolve this dispute."
The lawyer acknowledged, though, that the development doesn't do anything to hasten an agreement. But, he said, "The players are in a better situation because the owners no longer have the threat of implementation."
Although union officials said they were not prepared to discuss whether or not they would recommend the end of the strike, that possibility at least existed if the union was confident the players did not have to fear impasse and implementation again.
However, if the players decided to go back to work without a new agreement, the owners most likely would lock them out because they are determined, one management official said, not to play the 1995 season under the old system.
The players struck Aug. 12 because they said they did not want to enter the off season facing the possibility of the implementation of a salary cap. If they went into the off-season without a new collective bargaining agreement, they said, they would lose their leverage.
Besides installing the salary cap, which would have placed a maximum on club payrolls, the owners eliminated salary arbitration and created a new category of restricted free agency. Under that system, players with four or five years of major league service would have been eligible to be free agents, but their clubs could have retained them under the right of first refusal.
Even though the union had placed a freeze on signings, about half a dozen of the 38 restricted free agents had negotiated tentative agreements with clubs that would have become official only if the freeze were lifted. Those players now remain property of their 1994 clubs.
The clubs' revocation of the imposed system officially won't take effect until Monday. John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, the chairman of the owners' negotiating committee, said he believed today's development "will intensify the collective bargaining effort between the two parties."
Although the owners were told they illegally declared an impasse, in one way they welcomed the development. They felt the union has been delaying in the talks, waiting for a positive ruling from the board. That step now is behind both sides.
Each side filed unfair labor practice charges against the other Dec. 27, but the board did not find cause to issue a complaint against the players.
If the board had issued a complaint against the owners, then sought and got an injunction, the clubs could have appealed it to the circuit court of appeals. If an administrative law judge, after a hearing, had upheld the board's complaint against the owners, they could have appealed it first to the five-member board and then, if that appeal were unsuccessful, to the circuit court of appeals and on to the United States Supreme Court, if necessary.
Those procedures would have taken several years, with the ultimate outcome unknown perhaps until 1997 or 1998.
The union, in its charge, said that the clubs had "interfered with, restrained and coerced" players in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. Specifically, the union said the the clubs had refused to bargain in good faith and should not be permitted to make changes unilaterally in the working conditions.
The clubs charged that the union had violated the labor act by, among other things, refusing to negotiate wages on a collective basis and instead insisting on "the individual negotiation of wages and salary arbitration."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) R B I (51%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (93%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (93%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; STRIKES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INJUNCTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; FEINSTEIN, FRED BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



112 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Government Magic: Cap Disappears

BYLINE: By Claire Smith 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Never mind.
That's how easy it is, apparently, for a government to remove a portion of the bad dream that is major league baseball. 
 Nobody removed the strike, mind you. But the National Labor Relations Board did remove, or "encourage," the removal of the owners' 1 1/2-month-old salary cap.
The cap went the way of daytime World Series games and the 154-game schedule after the clubs were informed that the Federal agency was likely on the verge of bringing an unfair labor practices complaint against them.
The owners, spinning well in this capital of spin controllers, praised the decision, as if baseball had stumbled onto its own V-E Day. The labor board has enabled the two sides to remove distractions by clearing the decks of N.L.R.B. charges, according to John Harrington of the Red Sox, the owners' chief negotiator, and the owners' lawyer, Chuck O'Connor.
Still, both those gentlemen admitted that Fred Feinstein, the labor board's general counsel, had indicated that based on the information he has in hand, he would have been inclined to find against the owners. It seems, Feinstein concluded, you can't impose a cap based on the supposition that there is an impasse at the negotiating table when there isn't, in fact, an impasse.
That's just what the striking players asserted Dec. 23, the day after the clubs declared the impasse and slapped a salary cap on the sport.
So it was that while the sport was warily awaiting a body blow from President Clinton, the top guy in the Administration, another top gun, the labor board, got the drop on at least one-half of baseball's recalcitrant negotiators.
Make no mistake. The board's action carried a wallop felt throughout the major leagues. It had to because of the message sent: that the owners were edging dangerously close to being slapped with a complaint by the labor board and that the board was intending to pursue an injunction against the cap if the owners had not removed it first.
The owners say they had removed it, anyway, when they put a new proposal on the table Wednesday. It did not contain a cap, but rather a luxury tax.
The labor board's action brought muted response from the players, the one group it all but cleared of any wrongdoing in the labor-practices area. These are sensitive days, after all, what with the 5 1/2-month-old strike still raging and spring training camp openings less than two weeks away.
In a sense, the board action represents a second chance, if not a victory for both sides. Yes, the owners were given an out, a very generous out. Withdraw the cap, they were told by Feinstein. The owners get to make like Bill Murray in "Groundhog Day" and just relive Dec. 22 all over again -- without the part that ended in a cap. Just pretend that the five weeks that followed the imposition didn't exist.
Yes, the charges -- and threat of penalties -- still exist. But they are being held in abeyance. Believe Harrington and O'Connor when they say they see those charges never re-emerging, because of the settlement both sides now openly pray for. Feinstein has given both sides that chance. The Federal Government, wielder of many swords, sheathed one mighty one last night.
But the Government did so, it seemed clear, with the understanding that baseball will now respond in a most positive way -- with a weekend of reasoned bargaining, a weekend devoid of the writing of briefs, a weekend devoid of lobbying, a weekend devoid of distraction.
President Clinton did not bring the parties back to the table in the shadow of his White House to watch posturing and case-building. The labor board got that message from the ultimate Washington bigwig loud and clear and did its part to clear the incredibly muddied waters that constantly swirl around baseball labor relations.
And Clinton wants those waters cleared. And the game played, with major leaguers and without strife. In Clinton's mind, replacement baseball may not represent a threat to national security. But it obviously represents a threat to the national pastime, not to mention the economies of 26 major league cities and the spring-training states of Florida and Arizona. Those threats alone are obviously enough to have caused Clinton to seize the issue and refuse to let go.
Will the action that walks like a pardon and talks like a pardon do more than allow the owners a sigh of relief? Will it, in fact, breathe even more life into a sport that all but put itself on a respirator? Everyone should know by Monday -- the day Clinton has said the game must settle or else.
One gets the feeling that baseball's owners and its players better start providing some positive answers to such questions on their own. Because the Government still has a lot of bite left in it. And agencies such as the labor board can obviously take themselves out of the game, but they can put themselves right back in, if need be, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) R B I (54%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (93%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (93%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; STRIKES BASEBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); LAWYERS (66%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



113 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON ASKS RISE IN MINIMUM WAGE

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3

 BODY:
Challenging skeptical Republicans with a popular pocketbook measure that he knows is unlikely to pass, President Clinton today proposed a 90-cent increase in the minimum wage, to $5.15 an hour, over two years.
"The only way to grow the middle class and shrink the underclass is to make work pay," the President said in a Rose Garden ceremony at which he was joined by a number of Congressional Democrats, many of whom had urged him to fight for a higher rate than the $5 figure he originally favored. "And in terms of real buying power, the minimum wage will be at a 40-year low next year if we do not raise it above $4.25 an hour." 
 But, in a sign of the proposal's dim prospects on Capitol Hill, not a single Republican attended the ceremony despite the White House's efforts to attract some.
Speaker Newt Gingrich and the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, both promised to hold hearings and review the proposal, though Mr. Gingrich suggested the leadoff witness on the House side might well be Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader.
Mr. Armey, a former economics professor at the University of North Texas in Denton, has vowed to fight an increase in the minimum wage with "every fiber" of his being.
Mr. Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, expressed a similar view. "I personally am very skeptical of it, and I think it will kill jobs, and particularly will kill jobs for minority teen-agers," he said. "But I think we owe it to the President to have hearings."
Mr. Gingrich said he might prefer to create new "enterprise zones" in poor urban areas, Indian reservations and parts of Appalachia, in which employers who hired disadvantaged local workers would pay "zero capital gains" taxes.
In his State of the Union Message last week, Mr. Clinton said he favored raising the minimum wage but did not say by how much. His aides said later that he was leaning toward an increase of 75 cents an hour, but wanted to see if he could build Congressional support for a compromise. By today, the only compromise he could reach was with Democrats who had wanted an increase of $1.50 or more.
While the White House expects it will lose the fight to increase the wage, it is one that Presidential advisers say they are happy to make because they believe it puts Mr. Clinton on the winning side of public opinion on an issue that has had bipartisan support in Congress.
In 1989, President George Bush proposed the last increase, also 90 cents over two years, from $3.35, to a Democratic Congress, and it passed with the support of both Mr. Dole and Mr. Gingrich. Presidential advisers said Mr. Clinton had settled on the 90-cent figure in part to make the point that what was good policy for Mr. Bush then was good policy now.
But the Republicans control both houses of Congress now and have deep tax and spending cuts on their minds, so the White House cannot be assured that a wage increase will even be brought to the floor, where Republicans could face pressure from constituents to support it.
"It'd be nice to say, 'Let's just have a vote for the symbolism of it,' " said a Democratic aide in the House. "But we can't even schedule a vote. We might have to attach it as some wacky amendment."
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the chairman of the House Republican conference, said he was concerned that an increase in the minimum wage could cost hundreds of thousands of jobs, the most common argument cited by opponents.
But several recent independent studies tend to show that such assumptions about job losses resulting from a wage increase may be overstated. Robert B. Reich, the Secretary of Labor, and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, said today that any losses would be minimal.
Mr. Reich, the biggest backer of an increase among the President's senior advisers, displayed a chart at the White House today showing that, adjusted for inflation, the minimum wage was worth far less now than it was in 1968, when it would have been $6.29 in 1994 dollars. "We have fallen behind in our national goal to make work pay," the Secretary said.
About 11 million Americans now earn between the existing $4.25 minimum and the proposed $5.15, and would probably benefit from the increase, along with about 3.5 million others who earn within 50 cents of the proposed new minimum and could see a ripple effect, Secretary Reich said.
Mr. Clinton promised in the 1992 Presidential campaign to increase the minimum wage, but deferred action after he was elected, in part because he wanted the support of business leaders for his health care plan, which would have required employers to bear new insurance costs for their workers and would have amounted to an increase in earnings for hourly workers.
Today, many of the same groups that played a central role in defeating the health care plan vowed to fight the wage increase. Jack Farris, president of the National Federation of Independent Business, the small-business lobby, called the proposal a "regressive and job-killing scheme which will put a big dent in small-business hiring."
Mr. Clinton had been wary of proposing a wage increase lest he be seen as a captive of Democratic interest groups like organized labor. But in the end, aides said, he was comfortable proposing it as part of a package of spending cuts and middle-class tax breaks, and arguing that it was consistent with the bipartisan goal of overhauling welfare.
At the ceremony today, the President said that goal could not be met "unless the people we are asking to work can be rewarded for their labors."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton greeted Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich at a minimum wage ceremony yesterday. In the rear were Vice President Al Gore, left, and Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader. (Reuters) (pg. 8)
 
Graph: "The Minimum Wage, Over Time" shows the minimum wage and inflation rates from '50 to '90 and the percentage of workers making minimum wage over that same time period (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); DOLE, BOB (SEN); ARMEY, DICK (REPR) ; PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



114 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: HOUSING PROJECTS TO GIVE PRIORITY TO THE EMPLOYED

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
For the first time in decades, the New York City Housing Authority will soon give preference to working people over welfare recipients in filling many vacancies at its apartments, a move officials hope will restore economic and social stability to the projects.
The rule change is part of an extensive campaign, including advertising and recruiting potential tenants at their workplaces, that the authority plans to attract more working families for the authority's 180,000 apartments. In the last decade, the agency has seen the number of working families drop from 46 percent to 32 percent. Now only 8 percent of the applicants for housing are working families. 
 "Projects that are economically integrated just work better," said Martin Pestreich, assistant general manager with the Housing Authority. "That has been demonstrated in city after city throughout the country."
The change breaks a long-standing Housing Authority policy of giving equal weight to applications of families on public assistance, the elderly and working people. In reality, though, over the past decade most vacancies have gone to welfare recipients as fewer and fewer working families applied for public housing.
Coming at a time when the city, state and Federal governments are pushing a wide array of cuts in public assistance to poor people, advocates for welfare families and minorities worry that the policy changes could cut off a critical housing option for them.
"I am going to watch this carefully," said Hazel Dukes, president of the New York State chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. "I do feel that it is important to give the working poor some help, and I know that residents of public housing want it. But it does raise a red flag. It has to be done fairly and in a way that will not discriminate against welfare families."
But housing officials and some tenants' advocates argue that housing projects around the country have become dumping grounds for the poorest families who are increasingly isolated from the mainstream and who often bring with them problems of crime and drugs.
In fact, the new policy follows other moves that the Housing Authority has made in recent years to screen new tenants, including criminal background checks, home visits and interviews.
In New York, the policy change will be felt most profoundly at Beach 41st Street Houses, a 712-unit development in Far Rockaway, Queens, where the authority will create a separate waiting list composed almost exclusively of working families and the elderly.
The 20-year-old complex recently received $48 million in Federal money for physical and social-service improvements over the next five years, including high-tech security systems for lobbies, full-time day care, the creation of an alternative high school for adults, a small-business loan program and the construction of a community center with performance arts space, a gymnasium and a library.
But the authority is not stopping with Beach 41st Street. Reuben Franco, chairman of the Housing Authority, said this week that the agency would soon give working families preference for up to 50 percent of vacancies as they come up in public housing developments.
"Beach 41st Street is a very important experiment," Mr. Franco said. "We expect it to be a showcase that we can repeat in other parts of the city. But we have all recognized the importance of a diverse population. We need to start on that now."
In recent years, the Housing Authority's efforts to maintain a balance among working families, elderly people and welfare recipients has been compromised. Because of fears of crime and the overall decline of some housing projects, officials say, fewer working people have sought public housing and more families on welfare were forced to turn to it.
In addition, during the late 1980's, the Housing Authority was called on to give apartments to homeless families as a way of reducing the population at city shelters. A spokeswoman for Joan Malin, Commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services, said she did not expect the new policy to reduce housing opportunities for the homeless. The authority's current obligation is to house about 1,400 homeless families, which is less than the 2,000 families the agency was taking in four years ago.
"A very small percentage of homeless clients go the Housing Authority," said Susan Wiviott, a spokesman for the agency. "We do not expect the change to impact our efforts."
The policy changes in New York, which have been endorsed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, are part of an overall shift in the way public housing is administered throughout the country. Officials of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development say they are hoping to encourage other housing authorities to adopt similar procedures.
"The goal is to do away with the concentration of poverty that public housing has become," said Joseph Shuldiner, assistant secretary for Public and Indian Housing at H.U.D. "We believe that fostering an economic mix is the most direct way of achieving that through a combination of modernization and changing the rent rules."
The money that H.U.D. has provided for the Queens complex is part of $350 million that the agency has provided to upgrade distressed housing developments in New York and seven other cities.
When the Housing Authority was set under Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in the 1934, it was free to set its own standards regarding tenants it would accept. Until the late 1960's, it gave preference to two-parent families where at least one parent had a job. In addition, the authority took into account what it called morality factors, such as arrest records and problems with alcoholism.
But the policies were challenged by civil rights groups, which argued that the rules discriminated against the population for which public housing was intended. The Housing Authority acknowledged that welfare families had little chance of getting apartments, and the policies were liberalized to give equal consideration to families on public assistance.
In addition, in the late 1970's, Congress began providing money to the nation's housing authorities and put in place Federal policies and income limits intended to guarantee that public housing was available to the poorest of the poor.
But last month, H.U.D. liberalized those rules, giving housing authorities in New York and in other cities the ability to set their own standards for up to half of the vacant apartments.
At Beach 41st Street nearly half of the tenants receive public assistance. About 40 percent are elderly people receiving Social Security, and working families make up about 11 percent. The average income, $10,380, is below the $12,500 average for all of public housing.
The planned renovations will require that some tenants be relocated. When new housing assignments are made, 60 percent of apartments will be filled by families earning 50 to 80 percent of median income for the New York area. Forty percent of the new apartments will go mainly to elderly applicants.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York City Housing Authority is trying to attract working people over welfare recipients in filling vacancies in its 180,000 apartments. At the Beach 41st Street Houses in Far Rockaway, Queens, the authority is to create a separate waiting list for working families and the elderly.; The Beach 41st Street Houses has received $48 million in Federal money for improvements, including a new high school for adults. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. 22)
 
Graph: "Families in Public Housing" shows those with one parent, families receiving welfare and families with two or more employed people from '84 to '94 (Source: New York City Housing Authority) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FAR ROCKAWAY (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; WELFARE (US) HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); FAMILY (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: DUKES, HAZEL N; KENNEDY, SHAWN G

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



115 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Flow of Illegal Aliens Rises as the Peso Falls

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz., Feb. 3

 BODY:
The Border Patrol senior agent surveyed the tattered border fence that separates Mexico and the United States and shook his head in consternation.
In broad daylight, as far as he could see to the east and west, people were slipping through holes and gaps in the barrier, fleeing the poverty of Latin America and making their way, illegally but unhindered, into the land of economic opportunity. 
 Some tossed the agent, Kevin Oaks, a smile and a wave as they ducked into alleys and side streets or disappeared into the tangled depths of rocky, trash-strewn desert canyons in the distance.
"Nogales is the hot spot these days for sneaking into the U.S.," Agent Oaks lamented. "We've been overwhelmed here over the past few months, ever since the special push was ordered to shut down hard on illegal crossings over at San Diego and back at El Paso. And things have only gotten worse since the peso tumbled. Now there's even less work to be had in Mexico and if the peso tumbles more -- Well, better pray."
Illegal border crossings at Nogales are already heavy. Last month the 80 overworked Border Patrol agents here arrested 10,476 illegal aliens, which was more than ever before and more than twice the 4,293 arrested in January 1994.
No one knows, of course, how many aliens slipped past without being caught. But if the scene playing out before Agent Oaks's frustrated eyes was any indication, thousands and thousands more got through than were stopped.
Those who evaded apprehension made their way to urban areas like Los Angeles, Chicago and New York with the help of friends or paid guides.
"The word is out down in Mexico that we're now the weak point in the defense," Agent Oaks said. "It used to be that two of every three illegal crossings were attempted at San Diego and El Paso. Now a lot of the people we're catching here tell us they specifically avoided going to those crossing points because of the increased patrolling. They know there are more holes in the border here than we have agents and equipment to plug them. We're something of a joke."
Unlike the Border Patrol stations at San Diego and El Paso, where the number of field agents and supply of surveillance equipment have been more than doubled recently, the station at Nogales has not been reinforced.
More people and equipment have been promised as part of an effort by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to slow what has become a costly and politically embarrassing assault on the southern border of the United States. But delivery is six months or more away.
"It's enough to drive you crazy," said R. S. Colburn, the chief patrol agent here. "The Patrol has proved at San Diego and El Paso that the flow really can be slowed and made almost manageable with the right mix of agents and equipment."
In particular, immigration officials are pleased with the results from San Diego, which was the most porous of all crossing points before the reinforcement effort.
Last fall, when the reinforcements, extra night-vision scopes, radios and all-terrain vehicles were deployed, monthly apprehensions more than tripled. Then, near the turn of the year as word began to spread among aliens that crossing at San Diego was no longer a breeze, illegal entry attempts began to fall off, followed by a decline in apprehensions.
A few days ago, Border Patrol officials proudly reported the most encouraging news to date. In January 1995, they said, there were 31,000 apprehensions at San Diego, compared with 38,000 apprehensions for the same month a year earlier, a decline of almost 20 percent.
At El Paso, monthly apprehensions are still running ahead of those for a year earlier. But as at San Diego, the gap is beginning to close.
Meanwhile, here in Nogales, outnumbered Border Patrol agents find that not only are they unable to apprehend thousands of illegal aliens but many of those they do turn back often try to cross again -- usually successfully -- within a matter of hours.
"Sometimes it seems that the biggest deterrent they face in crossing is not us but the bandits and drug dealers who sometimes ambush them in the gullies and alleys," Agent Oaks said. "We've noticed that as the number of crossings has increased recently, so has border crime, especially robbery, drug running and rape of women attempting to cross."
Late in the afternoon Agent Oaks helped apprehend a young man emerging from a cross-border drain culvert. The man reported that he had just been robbed in the dank tunnel by a group of teen-agers who had brandished knives and were high from sniffing paint fumes.
Asked why he had ventured into the tunnel, the man, an auto mechanic who identified himself only as "Osvaldo," replied that he could not find work in Mexico and was willing to risk robbery to hunt for a job in the United States.
He said he was from a farming area west of Mexico City, had spent two and a half days riding a bus to Nogales and was headed for Los Angeles.
Why, Agent Oaks asked, had he tried to cross at Nogales instead of San Diego?
"I heard that crossing at Nogales would be easier because there would be fewer border guards," he replied, a slight smile creasing his weary face.
What would he do after being returned to Mexico? Would he go home?
"There is nothing at home for me," he said. "It is worse now after the fall of the peso than it has ever been."
Would he try another crossing? Risk another robbery?
"Why not?" he replied. "I have nothing left to lose."
Another border agent moved in to lead him off. The slight smile returned.
"See you around," Agent Oaks said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Five apprehended aliens were directed yesterday to a Border Patrol vehicle at Nogales, Ariz., by an agent, Roy Pierce. Nogales is considered an easy place to cross the Mexican border into the United States.; A 12-year-old boy who acted as a guide for 29 aliens crossing into the United States at Nogales, Ariz., stood with Border Patrol agents yesterday after the group had been apprehended. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Map of Arizone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: NOGALES, AZ, USA (97%); EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; BORDER PATROL (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; BORDER PATROL (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; NOGALES (ARIZ); ARIZONA; SAN DIEGO (CALIF); EL PASO (TEX); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); ARIZONA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (97%); EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



116 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: On the Waterfront;
Investor Builds Reputation as He Develops a Recreation Complex on the Chelsea Piers

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
Roland W. Betts was inspecting construction on his sprawling West Side sports and entertainment center at the Chelsea Piers when he decided to stop by the sound stage there where NBC's "Cosby Mysteries" is filmed. The show's star, Bill Cosby, was not in. But just outside Mr. Cosby's dressing room, a middle-aged woman was hunched over a mop, dutifully cleaning floors.
 Mr. Betts, the principal owner of the Texas Rangers, the major league baseball team, financier of major motion pictures and chairman of Chelsea Piers Management Inc., rushed over to hug and kiss her. After all, it was his wife's sister. 
 "She's been down on her luck," he said later, explaining why he helped her get the job.
 In a city where real estate developers often live chauffeured life styles, with reputations as large as the edifices they build, Mr. Betts has emerged as an anomaly. Although he has amassed millions of dollars financing hit films like "Beauty and the Beast," "Pretty Woman, and "The Little Mermaid," he has remained virtually anonymous, almost humble -- even as he undertakes one of the more ambitious recent developments in New York City, a $92 million recreation complex at the neglected Chelsea Piers.
 "He's a real person," said Tom Fox, president of the Hudson River Park Conservancy, a subsidiary of the New York State Urban Development Corporation.
 Mr. Betts was not born to humility, however; he acquired it. The son of a wealthy investment banker, he grew up in Syosset, L.I., and received degrees from Yale University and Columbia Law School. But in between college and law school, moved by the idealism of the 1960's, Mr. Betts, who is white, spent seven years in Harlem that he believes changed him. There, he taught in public schools and met his wife, a teacher from a poor black family.
 It was Jessica, one of their two daughters, who eventually led Mr. Betts to develop the Chelsea Piers site, he said. Jessica was an ice skater, and Mr. Betts was searching for a site to replace the small, insufficient site where she practiced. When he saw the dilapidated piers, 840 feet long and column free, he had but one thought, he said: ideal for ice skating.
 That thought translated into an ambitious investment. Mr. Betts and his partner, Tom A. Bernstein, overcame what many saw as insurmountable environmental, zoning, and financing obstacles in their bid to develop a 1.7 million square-foot complex at the Chelsea Piers. The sports and entertainment complex, which sits on the riverfront between 17th and 23d Streets, is scheduled to open this summer.
 The four 85-year-old piers will hold two indoor, Olympic-sized skating rinks, a golf driving range, two roller skating rinks, a sports fitness center, an indoor running track, rock-climbing walls, basketball and beach volleyball courts and gymnastics equipment.
 Jutting into the water, two of the piers are covered, with two levels of indoor parking. The two others are open spaces. The headhouse leading to the piers is home to NBC's "Law and Order" as well as the "Cosby Mysteries," and more television and film production studios are under construction.
 Completed in 1910 for the grand luxury liners of that era, the Chelsea Piers were used to dock the ill-fated Lusitania, and one was the Titantic's destination when it sank in 1912. The New York State Department of Transportation owns the piers and has used them in recent years to park municipal vehicles and to impound cars.
 Under the terms of a 20-year lease, the developers will pay about $200,000 a month to rent the property, and that amount will increase each year based on inflation. The state is expected to use those revenues to design and construct the remainder of the park. Moreover, tenants are projected to generate 2,500 permanent jobs and $11.7 million annually in tax revenues.
 "The kinds of activities the Chelsea Piers provide are labor intensive but don't demand a high level of skill," said Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President. "Those kinds of developments are good for the city's economy."
 But some in the community say the development is heavy on the commercial side and short on park space. "We want bikeways, walkways, and to preserve the river," said Marcy Benstock, executive director of the Clean Air Campaign, which has successfully petitioned for studies to assess what impact development along the Hudson will have on the environment.
 Even some community leaders who originally were supporters of the Chelsea Piers complex are in a tiff over Mr. Betts's plan to lease a 42,000 square-foot space to Herman's Sporting Goods. Initial plans indicated there would only be 23,000 square feet of retail space. The critics charge that the larger store will create traffic and congestion.
 Councilman Thomas K. Duane, who represents the surrounding neighborhood, said that recent negotiations about Herman's have ended in a stalemate and he said he is considering a lawsuit to halt plans for the store. Despite his disagreement with the developers over the issue, Mr. Duane said that Mr. Betts and Mr. Bernstein are uncommonly receptive and accessible.
 "They are unusual because they come to meetings to negotiate with people who are opposed to their plans," Mr. Duane said. "Usually developers aren't at the table with the community. They just send their lawyers."
 Long before they were developers, Mr. Betts, 48, and Mr. Bernstein, 42, were lawyers themselves. The two met in 1978, when they both joined the entertainment department of the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkin, Wharton & Garrison.
 That was after Mr. Betts' seven years as a teacher and administrator in Harlem, which he wrote about in a book called "Acting Out" (Little, Brown, 1978). In the book, Mr. Betts wrote: "I have fallen in love with some children, and come close to strangling others. I have witnessed acts of rare beauty and grace, and lived through moments of violence and terror."
 While teaching, Mr. Betts also fell in love with Lois Phifer, a New York City school teacher, who grew up in a Roselle, N.J., family of 14 children. They have been married for 22 years and have two daughters in college.
 Calvin Hill, the former Dallas Cowboys football star who attended Yale with Mr. Betts, said: "On the surface, with his pedigree, he's not the type of guy you would think would have taught in Harlem, but he's driven by a lot of things other than money. More than anything, he's interested in the substance of people."
 In 1983, Mr. Betts and Mr. Bernstein formed Silver Screen Management, and, through a limited partnership, the pair raised $83 million to help Home Box Office produce feature films. Soon thereafter, Silver Screen entered a joint venture with the Walt Disney Company, and from 1985 through 1991, Silver Screen raised $1 billion for 70 Disney films.
 Three years ago, when the state awarded Mr. Betts and Mr. Bernstein the right to lease and develop the piers, many people doubted it could be done. Over the years, plans to rehabilitate the neglected shoreline had become mired in politics and opposition from the community and environmentalists.
 Obtaining the necessary permits would be a problem, they were told, but it took them only 24 months.
 And despite resistance, the developers convinced the community board and legislators that the time was right for a private investment that would focus on recreational activities rather than the high-rise office or residential buildings that have anchored other waterfront developments.
 "This is important because Betts has succeeded at going where no one else ever has," said Mitchell Moss, a professor at New York University's Taub Urban Research Center.
 Mr. Betts believes that he had an advantage as a neophyte in the real estate business. "Nobody knew us, so we didn't have any baggage," he said.
 Because they were unknown, people also doubted their ability to raise the necessary capital. However, the two men put up $17 million of their own money, and Morgan Stanley & Company issued $45 million in mortgage bonds. Also, the subtenants at the site are spending an additional $30 million improving their spaces.
 The initial reason that led Mr. Betts to the Chelsea Piers no longer exists. With Jessica now 18 and away at college, a place for her to skate is no longer an issue. However, Mr. Betts and Mr. Bernstein recently purchased Sky Rink, the rink where Jessica practiced, changed it from a nonprofit to a for-profit entity, and will relocate the facility to the Chelsea Piers later this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A $92 million, 1.7-million-square-foot recreation complex is scheduled to open this summer at the Chelsea Piers, the four Hudson River piers at left, between 17th and 23d Streets in Manhattan. (Beck's Studio); Roland W. Betts and his partner, Tom A. Bernstein, overcame what many saw as insurmountable obstacles in developing the Chelsea Piers. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map: The Chelsea Piers Complex (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (85%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHELSEA PIERS MANAGEMENT INC CHELSEA PIERS MANAGEMENT INC (85%); TEXAS RANGERS (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHELSEA PIERS MANAGEMENT INC TEXAS RANGERS (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC); HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BASEBALL (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CLIMBING (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); CITIES (68%); ICE SKATING (65%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (60%); ROCK CLIMBING (50%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; BETTS, ROLAND W BILL COSBY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



117 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

PUBLIC HOUSING TO FAVOR WORKING PEOPLE
The New York City Housing Authority will soon give preference to working people over welfare recipients in filling many vacancies at its apartments, a move officials hope will restore economic and social stability to the projects. The rule change is part of an extensive campaign the authority plans to attract more working families. Page 1.
 
A L.I. TRIAL, THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS
Day after day, the curious and the bored line up for a chance to watch the man whose own lawyers say is mad defend himself against charges of murder. They have come to see Colin Ferguson, cast in the role of a lifetime: defense counsel in the Long Island Rail Road shootings. The trial offers an eerie contrast to O.J. Simpson's. On one coast, an army of high-priced legal talent defends a sane man accused of murder; on the other, a man whose sanity is in serious doubt argues for himself. Page 1.
 
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
TRUMP DEVELOPMENT CLEARS MAJOR HURDLE
Over the strenuous objections of environmentalists, Harlem residents and some elected officials, the city gave Donald J. Trump permission to connect the first phase of his Riverside South development to the troubled North River sewage treatment plant. With the certification, Mr. Trump clears a major hurdle in his long struggle to construct 16 buildings along the Hudson River. Page 23.
 
AMID THE DUST OF TIMES SQUARE, GHOSTS
"There's no doubt we have a presence," said Maria Alvorado, the manager of the tourist office of the Times Square Business Improvement District. The office moved a few months ago into the foyer of the old Harris Theater, on 42d between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. "Lots of people have seen it," she said as she walked to the area behind the movie screen. "I was unpacking brochures in this storage area when I felt someone watching me. I looked up and there he was. A man, tall and elegantly dressed. In a second he was gone." About New York, page 23.
 
 
REGION
 
CONTRADICTIONS IN DRUG POLICY?
Governor Pataki wants to change New York law so that nonviolent offenders can avoid prison. At the same time, the budget he proposed this week cuts treatment programs that may be needed as an alternative to prison. Some see a contradiction. Page 22.
 
GOING CASUAL AT THE NEW I.B.M.
When employees at I.B.M. headquarters turned on their computers, there was an E-mail message from their boss, LVG 20. Louis V. Gerstner Jr. announced that the company was planning to sell its headquarters and build a new one where employees could work in a more intimate, collegial atmosphere. At the same time, I.B.M. managers began telling employees that they could jettison the company uniform. In essence, the message in both moves was, lighten up. Page 24.
 
TAXPAYERS CAN SUE OVER ASSESSMENTS
What's good for General Motors may or may not be good for the country, but it could be very good for New Jersey taxpayers who believe their municipal assessor has it in for them. In a lawsuit involving G.M.'s plant in Linden, New Jersey's second-highest court ruled that taxpayers can sue their assessors under the Federal Civil Rights Act. And they can collect damages if they can prove the assessor acted out of malice or prejudice. Page 24.
 
Neediest Cases...22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (56%); NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MURDER (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); FAMILY (73%); DRUG POLICY (61%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (52%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



118 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Talked Too Much

BYLINE: By Bob Bauman; Bob Bauman, a Republican, was a Representative from Maryland from 1973 to 1981.

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.

 BODY:
Until Representative Dick Armey referred to his colleague Barney Frank as "Barney Fag," I had a good impression of the new majority leader. Compared to the doctrinaire Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, Mr. Armey seemed a thoughtful if somewhat laconic sort, carefully choosing his words to convey his considered beliefs.
Mr. Armey protested that his comment was merely a slip of the tongue, a mispronunciation requiring no "psychoanalysis about my subliminal or about my Freudian predilections." Those are carefully chosen words, but I, as a gay man, shudder to think that anyone was convinced by them. Having seen the TV clips and read the transcript, I have to concur with Mr. Frank, who said, "I don't think it was on the tip of his tongue, but I do believe it was in the back of his mind." 
 A certain euphoria of self-importance can overcome a public person, surrounded by the media, thinking the world is listening. It is conducive to careless yet revealing utterances, instantly regretted because of the political consequences. With some remorse, I recall a House debate with Parren Mitchell, Democrat of Maryland, concerning economic sanctions against Rhodesia, to which I was opposed.
As our exchange became heated, I referred to him as "the gentleman from Africa." Mr. Mitchell, an African-American, instantly and rightfully objected. I withdrew my remarks with the lame excuse that in the passion of debate I regrettably had abbreviated my intended description of him as "the chairman of the African affairs subcommittee." Of course the Congressional Record was doctored to excise my racial slur.
There is much more to Mr. Armey's slur than simply the blatant disregard for the dignity of a colleague. It shows that gay people are apparently the last Americans at whom bigotry and prejudice can be aimed, even by elected officials, without fear of meaningful censure.
The episode is especially troubling because Mr. Armey comes from Texas, a state in which a recent epidemic of gay-bashing and anti-gay prejudice has led to several murders of homosexuals and at least one suicide.
Mr. Frank and I didn't choose our sexual orientation, the ignorant preaching of fundamentalists notwithstanding. I wish I could convey to my fellow Republicans the depth of despair and suffering that society inflicts on gays in a thousand subtle and, as Mr. Armey has demonstrated, not so subtle ways.
I do not mean just the denial of housing or employment or even the rejection of a gay child by his parents. Homosexuals experience a rejection of their God-given nature and being. Some are able to deal with this and live out their lives, though few ever reconcile fully to the cruelty. The less fortunate, especially the young, die by their own hands or seek escape in alcohol or drugs.
Barney Frank is a witty man and, from my political point of view, far too effective in Congress. As one who played the role, I know him to be well-suited to his current position as a scourge to the majority party. He has shown tremendous grace in this distasteful episode.
Too many Republicans are now embracing the tactics that Democrats used throughout their long domination of Congress: trying to impose their personal values through Government action. If the G.O.P. is to achieve a lasting allegiance among a majority of Americans, it must stop trying to piece together angry, frustrated constituencies with appeals to prejudice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; HOMOSEXUALITY; DISCRIMINATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RELIGION (77%); HATE CRIME (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); SUICIDE (60%); 

PERSON: FRANK, BARNEY (REPR); BAUMAN, BOB; ARMEY, RICHARD K (REPR) BARNEY FRANK (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



119 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Plans to Go Casual But Stay Put in Hometown

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ARMONK, N.Y., Feb. 3

 BODY:
When employees at I.B.M. headquarters here turned on their computers today, there was an E-mail message from their boss, LVG 20.
 Addressing each of his 700 co-workers as "Armonk colleague," Louis V. Gerstner Jr. announced that the company was planning to sell the 30-year-old concrete-and-glass honeycomb that is its headquarters building and build a new headquarters down the road where employees could do their jobs in a more intimate, collegial and state-of-the-art atmosphere. 
 At the same time, I.B.M. managers began telling employees that they could jettison the company uniform: dark suits, starched white shirts and ties for men, dresses or skirts for women.
 In essence, the message in both moves was, lighten up.
 "If you're comfortable, you can think better," Marge Robinson, an administrative assistant, said of the more informal dress code.
 The changes may seem cosmetic, but they go the heart of the company's efforts to transform itself. Mr. Gerstner, who took over almost two years ago, has been trying to reform a hidebound culture that he blames for the erosion in the company's dominance of the computer industry. He is trying to make the company more relaxed and up-to-date in the hopes that it will also become more profitable. On Jan. 23, the International Business Machines Corporation reported its first profitable year since 1990.
 His message about the new headquarters was heady news for the hamlet of Armonk and the surrounding suburban town of North Castle, which had feared that I.B.M. was thinking of leaving Armonk altogether. I.B.M. provides more than 12 percent of North Castle's tax revenues.
 "Isn't that wonderful," said Becky Kittredge, a councilwoman in North Castle, a town of 100,000 people. "Not only are we not losing I.B.M., which has been a wonderful neighbor, but we'll be receiving more taxes."
 A year ago, I.B.M. executives revealed that they were considering selling their hilltop headquarters on a 450-acre parcel. The move was seen as another wound to Westchester's economy, which then had a 27.1 percent vacancy rate in its office buildings.
 Today, Mr. Gerstner suggested that the location was not the problem, but the building itself, which, he said, "has too many offices and at the same time too little space for accommodating customer meetings."
 It is also obsolete. As leaders of the nation's computer giant, its executives often have to apologize for wiring that is too outdated to accommodate the modems needed by the building's personal computers, machines that were invented 15 years after the building was built.
 The building is also not wired for cable, video conferencing or satellite broadcasts. When Mr. Gerstner wanted to broadcast a worldwide New Year's message last month to employees, he had to go to I.B.M.'s Manhattan offices to do it.
 The new complex, which has not been designed yet, will be in a more wooded area on the same property as the existing building, near a cluster of management training buildings that will give the new headquarters a more open, campuslike setting.
 "He wants a more collegial work atmosphere," said Rob Wilson, a company spokesman.
 The new building or buildings will also be smaller and allow the company to continue to trim its staff, though Mr. Wilson said he did not know to what size. The cost of the new building, he said, would be between $ 60 million and $ 70 million, roughly the same as it would have cost to remodel the current building. I.B.M. said it hopes the complex will be completed in two years.
 I.B.M. has never had a formal dress code, but under the reign of its founders, dark suits, white shirts and neutral ties were de rigueur. Employees sensed that if they did not abide, they could run afoul of a paternalistic culture that protected their jobs for life, found them homes, secured work for their spouses and even provided them with country club privileges.
 Headquarters employees have been telling internal opinion surveys that they prefer to dress more casually, and they will now be able to wear slacks, sport shirts and loafers without fear that their jobs are in peril. Still, there is no insistence that employees dress more casually.
 "If you feel a suit is more appropriate you can wear it," Mr. Wilson said, adding: "I do have a closet full of white shirts that I'm not sure I know what I'm going to do with."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday on the decision by International Business Machines to build a new headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., misstated the population of the surrounding town of North Castle. It is 10,000, not 100,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARMONK (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; OFFICES; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (64%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (63%); TELECONFERENCING (63%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (60%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH; GERSTNER, LOUIS V JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



120 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
POLICE PROTESTS IN SOUTH AFRICA
The killing of a black police officer has fueled racial tensions among South African police.; complaints abound that not enough has been done to improve the system. 1
FLOODS BOG DOWN BUSINESS
Most of the barges on Europe's busy inland waterways lie moored along quays, harbors and levees because of river flooding, suspending many commercial links. 4
As Dutch flood waters ebb, new questions about the dikes. 4
TALES OF RAMADAN
Cairo Journal: During the holiday of Ramadan, story-telling helps envelop Egypt in a unity of purpose that briefly shuts out poverty and political unrest. 2
 
A hoped-for business boom has failed to materialize in Jericho. 3
New York Senators in agreement on the Embassy in Israel. 3
A dispute over the Bosnian Army's identification with Islam. 4
 
National 6-10
 
WEAK EMPLOYMENT GROWTH
Job growth was weak in January, with unemployment rising to 5.7 percent, providing a clear sign that the economy was cooling off. 1
PRESIDENTIAL WAGE PROPOSAL
President Clinton proposed a 90-cent increase in the minimum wage, to $ 5.15 an hour, though its prospects on Capitol Hill were dim. 1
RETOOLING A WELFARE SYSTEM
Pending legislation in Massachusetts would require many able-bodied welfare recipients to find work after 60 days and would end payments after two years. 1
NOMINEE PERFORMED ABORTIONS
The doctor who was nominated to become Surgeon General said he had performed fewer than a dozen abortions in 30 years. 1
CLINTON LEGAL FUND IS LAGGING
President Clinton's legal defense fund said it was far short of the money it needed to pay his private lawyers' bills for 1994. 8
STREISAND AT HARVARD
In a speech at Harvard, Barbra Streisand criticized the Speaker, praised President Clinton and defended the right of celebrities to speak out on politics. 9
BATTLE OVER MILITARY PANEL
A call by Congressional Republicans for a panel to study the military has angered the Secretary of Defense, William Perry. 8
WASHINGTON'S FISCAL CRISIS
Virtually ignoring Mayor Marion Barry's proposed solution, Republican Congressional leaders began exploring ways to move the District of Columbia out of debt. 6
HOT SPOT FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
The combination of a falling peso in Mexico and tighter border surveillance at El Paso and San Diego have caused a rise in illegal immigration through Nogales, Ariz. 6
CHILLING TESTIMONY OF ABUSE
Denise Brown testified that O. J. Simpson had lifted her sister Nicole, thrown her against a wall and tossed her out of their house. 7
IN PURSUIT OF JEWISH STUDIES
Religion Journal: Orthodox women are enrolling in graduate programs in Jewish Studies to break into the ranks of university professors. 10
 
The space shuttle Discovery was launched with a woman as pilot. 9
A study of health and religion concludes: faith can help heal. 10
 
Metro Digest 21
 
INSIDE THE FERGUSON COURTROOM
Colin Ferguson's trial offers an eerie contrast to O.J. Simpson's: on one coast, high-cost legal talent defends a sane man accused of murder; on the other, a man considered insane argues for himself. 1
WORKERS TO GET EDGE IN HOUSING
Changing a longstanding policy, the New York City Housing Authority will soon give preference to working people over welfare recipients in filling apartment vacancies. 1
Business Digest 33
Arts/Entertainment 11-17
A dramatic Broadway debut. 11
Film: "The Jerky Boys." 13
Music: "Siegfried" in Chicago. 11
St. Cecilia Orchestra. 15
St. Luke Chamber Ensemble. 15
Dance: Tallulah Company. 14
"Operetta Affezionata." 11
Christopher Caines. 14
Sports 26-30
Baseball: Salary cap rescinded. 27
Reluctant Showalter will manage. 29
Basketball: Knicks keep rolling. 27
Columns: Rhoden on baseball strike 27
On Baseball 29
Football: Carroll joins 49ers. 27
Indoor Track: Upsets galore in Millrose Games. 27
Tennis: U.S. and France 1-1 in Davis Cup. 29
SportsPeople 30
Obituaries 25
Jack Sendak, children's-book writer.
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
Editorials
Hasty cuts in Medicaid.
The Speaker and the ethics panel.
Mr. Vacco begins badly.
Topics: Invasive questions.
Letters
Russell Baker: Eight easy pieces.
Bob Herbert: Afflicting the afflicted.
Marvin Kalb: The state of the disunion.
Bob Bauman: The man who talked too much.
Brooke Norman: Safety school blues.
Neediest Cases 22
Chronicle 20
Bridge 17
Crossword 16

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 1995, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A News Summary entry on Saturday describing an article about Barbra Streisand's speech at Harvard University on the role of artists in politics misrepresented her use of the term "bubbleheads." She quoted others who had called Hollywood friends of President Clinton "bubbleheads." She did not use the term to describe Mr. Clinton's critics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%); 

COMPANY: SURGEON GENERAL (54%); SURGEON GENERAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (54%); SURGEON GENERAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RIVERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); RAMADAN (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ARMIES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); POLITICS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAWYERS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); BORDER CONTROL (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); ABORTION (64%); SPACE SHUTTLE (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1995



121 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 5, 1995

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	49	THE CELESTINE PROPHECY, by James Redfield. (Warner, $17.95.) An ancient manuscript, found in Peru, provides insights into achieving a fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	33	POLITICALLY CORRECT BEDTIME STORIES, by James Finn Garner. (Macmillan, $8.95.) Classic tales respun to avoid offending current sensibilities.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	3	KISS THE GIRLS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) The police detective Alex Cross pursues a serial killer and the kidnapper of his niece.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	4	SELF-DEFENSE, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Bantam, $22.95.) The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware tries to help a woman who says she is being stalked.	 	 	 	 	 5	5	3	EYES OF A CHILD, by Richard North Patterson. (Knopf, $24.) The apparent suicide of a San Francisco man leads to courtroom encounters.	 	 	 	 	 6	13	2	ACCEPTABLE RISK, by Robin Cook. (Putnam, $23.95.) A researcher's quest for the ultimate drug to treat depression has devastating consequences.	 	 	 	 	 7	6	130	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $16.95.) A photographer and a farmer's lonely wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	 8	14	2	THE MURDERERS, by W.E.B. Griffin. (Putnam, $23.95.) A series of murders and "willful deaths" beleaguers the Philadelphia police force.	 	 	 	 	 9	11	2	TRUST ME, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Pocket, $22.) A canceled wedding leads to a curious romance between the groom and the caterer.	 	 	 	 	 10*	9	18	MUTANT MESSAGE DOWN UNDER, by Marlo Morgan. (HarperCollins, $18.) In Australia's outback, an American woman learns about aboriginal philosophy.	 	 	 	 	 11	8	23	DEBT OF HONOR, by Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $25.95.) Jack Ryan and C.I.A. agents vs. a Japanese plot to strike America's territory and economy.	 	 	 	 	 12	7	10	WINGS, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $23.95.) A woman pursues her ambition to become a record-setting aviator in pre-World War II America.	 	 	 	 	 13	12	13	THE LOTTERY WINNER, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) Stories about a couple who win a lottery and devote themselves to solving crimes.	 	 	 	 	 14	10	16	INSOMNIA, by Stephen King. (Viking, $27.95.) A widower and a widow, victims of sleeplessness, behold sinister forces at work in their small Maine town.	 	 	 	 	 15		1	ALWAYS A RECKONING, by Jimmy Carter. (Times Books/Random House, $18.) A collection of poems by the former President.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	2	17	THE HOT ZONE, by Richard Preston. (Random House, $23.) The discovery of a lethal virus, more infectious than H.I.V., and the efforts to keep it from spreading.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	14	CROSSING THE THRESHOLD OF HOPE, by John Paul II. Edited by Vittorio Messori. (Knopf, $20.) The Pope discusses matters of belief, suffering and hope.	 	 	 	 	 3	6	6	SISTERS, by Carol Saline. Photographs by Sharon J. Wohlmuth. (Running Press, $27.50.) The relationships of 36 sets of sisters of varied callings and backgrounds, reported in words and pictures.	 	 	 	 	 4	3	18	DON'T STAND TOO CLOSE TO A NAKED MAN, by Tim Allen. (Hyperion, $19.95.) Meditations on life by the star of "Home Improvement."	 	 	 	 	 5	15	2	INSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE, by Ronald Kessler. (Pocket, $23.) Anecdotes about events at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue during the past 30 years.	 	 	 	 	 6	7	59	THE BOOK OF VIRTUES, by William J. Bennett. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Moral stories adapted from the Greeks, the Bible, folklore and elsewhere.	 	 	 	 	 7	4	22	COUPLEHOOD, by Paul Reiser. (Bantam, $19.95.) Essays on the ups and downs of marriage by the television star and stand-up comedian.	 	 	 	 	 8	5	10	THE WARREN BUFFETT WAY, by Robert G. Hagstrom Jr. (Wiley, $24.95.) An account of the career of the man said to be the world's most successful investor.	 	 	 	 	 9	8	48	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, by John Berendt. (Random House, $23.) The mysterious death of a young man in Savannah, Ga.	 	 	 	 	 10	16	2	ALL MY CHILDREN, by Gary Warner. (General Publishing, $25.) A scrapbook of photographs and mementos about the long-running television show.	 	 	 	 	 11	9	19	JAMES HERRIOT'S CAT STORIES, by James Herriot. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A collection of tales by the Yorkshire veterinarian.	 	 	 	 	 12	10	14	THE BELL CURVE, by Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray. (Free Press, $30.) Ways in which differences in intelligence affect American life.	 	 	 	 	 13	11	16	NO ORDINARY TIME, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The roles of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt during World War II.	 	 	 	 	 14		2	LONG WALK TO FREEDOM, by Nelson Mandela. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) The autobiography of the first freely elected President of South Africa.	 	 	 	 	 15	14	17	DOLLY, by Dolly Parton. (HarperCollins, $25.) The autobiography of the country singer.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	2	89	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $23.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	41	IN THE KITCHEN WITH ROSIE, by Rosie Daley. (Knopf, $14.95.) Recipes by Oprah Winfrey's cook.	 	 	 	 	 3	4	3	FOOD, by Susan Powter. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Information about recipes, nutrition and diets.	 	 	 	 	 4	3	6	ILLUMINATA, by Marianne Williamson. (Random House, $20.) A celebration of the power of prayers, with examples of those fitting a variety of situations.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending Jan. 21, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
And Bear in Mind
(Editor's Choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
ADMITTING THE HOLOCAUST: Collected Essays, by Lawrence L. Langer. (Oxford University, $23.) Mr. Langer, a retired professor of English, illuminates the literature of the Holocaust -- the chronicles of ghetto and camp, the fiction and poetry wrought out of the horror, the representations in film and on television. Mr. Langer is also the editor of ART FROM THE ASHES: A Holocaust Anthology (Oxford University, $30), a remarkable collection of personal accounts, both by well-known survivors and by victims otherwise obscure, and of fiction, poetry and art related to the cataclysm.
 
ALL THE DAYS AND NIGHTS: The Collected Stories of William Maxwell. (Knopf, $25.) Stories, balanced, gentle and humane, concerned above all with reconciliation, from six decades of work by a master writer and editor who is now 86.
 
ANGEL ANGEL, by April Stevens. (Viking, $19.95.) A strangely persuasive novel about a family petrified by a father's desertion, then restored to humanity by an ebullient young woman with enough excess mental health to go around.
 
ANTARCTIC NAVIGATION, by Elizabeth Arthur. (Knopf, $25.) A first-person novel, alive with feeling and animated energy, whose heroine's aim is to vindicate by imitation the vision and morals of Scott of the Antarctic.
 
DEMOCRACY ON TRIAL, by Jean Bethke Elshtain. (Basic Books, $20.) A thoughtful professor of ethics argues that the weakness of democratic institutions in America reflects the replacement of rights conceived as immunities from government interference by rights conceived as individual entitlements.
 
FELICIA'S JOURNEY, by William Trevor. (Viking, $21.95.) Mr. Trevor's latest novel concerns an unmarried, pregnant, vulnerable Irish girl, wandering England's industrial Midlands until she encounters a predatory Englishman whose monstrosity remains long concealed.
 
THE GENERALS' WAR: The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf, by Michael R. Gordon and Bernard E. Trainor. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) A lucid, meticulously researched report by the chief Pentagon correspondent of The New York Times and a retired general who is director of national security programs at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government.
 
NIGHT: Night Life, Night Language, Sleep, and Dreams, by A. Alvarez. (Norton, $23.) Personal and literary explorations of the less visible (and therefore more conjectural) half of life by a gifted critic and acutely intuitive memoirist.
 
THE PAPERBOY, by Pete Dexter. (Random House, $23.) An eerie and beautiful novel whose emotionally alienated title character, a reporter in quest of facts only, is outmaneuvered by violent half-wits who know what they want.
 
REFLECTIONS OF EDEN: My Years With the Orangutans of Borneo, by Birute M.F. Galdikas. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) An offbeat personal memoir that examines her own life and work, by a woman who studied the most autonomous ape.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MAINE, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); SLEEP DISORDERS (76%); HOMICIDE (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); STALKING (73%); SLEEP (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); SUICIDE (67%); DEPRESSION (67%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (67%); CATERING SERVICES (66%); LOTTERIES (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (79%); STEPHEN KING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



122 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 45; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 6025 words

HEADLINE: Reimagining Berlin

BYLINE: By Paul Goldberger; Paul Goldberger, chief cultural correspondent for The Times, won a Pulitzer Prize for his architectural criticism.

 BODY:
WHAT STRUCK ME FIRST IN BERLIN WAS not energy but emptiness. This city that is supposed to be the capital of the new Europe begins with a void, with the startling discovery that its center is 17 acres of weeds and debris. Where the streets lead you as you seek out its heart turns out to be . . . a sprawling vacant lot. Some of it is surrounded by fences, but most of it is open, and since Berlin has few tall buildings, there is almost no skyline to frame this lunar landscape. Berlin's two most famous landmarks, the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag, hover in the distance, while the foreground is all nothingness. It is as if Times Square had been replaced by a chunk of the New Jersey Meadowlands.
This was once Potsdamer Platz, Berlin's commercial heart, so busy in the 1920's that it received the world's first traffic light. For the last 50 years, it has been empty, damaged by Allied bombs and finished off by the East Germans, who rammed the Berlin wall right through its center and tore down what remained of the surrounding blocks. This is all about to change: ground has already been broken for a vast office and retail complex sponsored by Daimler-Benz, and Sony plans to build its European headquarters here. Today, though, five years after the wall fell, most of Potsdamer Platz is still a wind-swept, dreary wasteland, laughing in the face of Berlin's much-vaunted intentions to reclaim the glories of its past. 
 For all that has happened since 1989, Berlin is a profoundly wounded city, and its wounds still show. Yes, Potsdamer Platz is full of construction signs with pictures of sleek new buildings by Renzo Piano, Arata Isozaki, Helmut Jahn and other renowned architects, but these buildings will be a long time in coming and are only a small part of Berlin's broader, often rancorous, struggle to invent itself anew. "You can't isolate a discussion of architecture from a discussion of the rest of Berlin," says Josef Kleihues, the most prominent architect in the city, and he is right. The sheer volume of new construction -- some 35 major projects are under way -- has made Berlin the biggest magnet for the world's architects since Tokyo in the 1980's. Architecture has become a subject that often serves as a touchstone for the larger question of what Berlin should be. The future of the physical city is debated today with the passion that just a few years ago was reserved for politics.
For most of this century, Berlin has held a strange and powerful allure for the rest of the world. Enlivened to the point of decadence by the arts in the 1920's, battered and nearly destroyed by dictatorship and war in the 1930's and 1940's and thrust painfully into the role of cold war icon for most of the time since, the city looks from afar like some kind of forbidden fruit, a garden of dazzling creativity, utter evil and constant redemption.
The Berliner's view of the world is ironic, occasionally bitter, often funny and inevitably more sophisticated than that of the average German -- not unlike what can be said about New Yorkers and the way in which they relate to the rest of the United States. Indeed, most Germans view Berlin with the sort of resentment, occasionally combined with envy, that Americans seem perpetually to feel toward New York.
It is no surprise that a New Yorker feels instantly at home here. Both cities are filled with anxious energy and with people who grew up in the provinces and yearned for a more cosmopolitan life. While New York and Berlin could not look less alike, the "Berliner luft," that special air, gives a snap that is more than a little similar to whatever makes the mood along the Hudson.
In the ecstasy that followed the opening of the wall in 1989 and the reunification of Germany a year later, it looked like nothing could stop the juggernaut. Berlin seemed, for a brief moment, to be the most important city in the world and the one where things changed faster than any other. It seemed poised to become the focal point of a reshaped Europe, the city where the post-cold-war world would find itself. Here in Berlin, in the restored capital of the continent's strongest economic power, would the prosperity of the West meet the potential of the East. Here in Berlin, in the city destined to recapture from Paris the title of world cultural center, would music, art and architecture reign supreme.
After five years, it has not quite happened. Yes, you can buy a Mercedes-Benz on Friedrichstrasse in East Berlin, where only the tiny, soot-spitting East German-built Trabants once chugged. True, billboards all over East Berlin proclaim "Test the West," pushing a brand of cigarettes called West by neatly merging commercial exhortation and soft-sell politics. But the new Berlin, whatever form it takes, is still far from being realized. The city has lost, not gained, jobs since the wall came down. (The closing of antiquated factories in East Berlin cost 150,000 manufacturing jobs, while the curtailment of the Federal subsidies that for so long propped up the West Berlin economy has meant the loss of an additional 65,000 jobs since 1989.) With the sputtering economy, real-estate developers have few tenants for their fancy new buildings. The cultural picture is murkier than when the wall ignited a creative spark of radicalism. The return of the German Government to Berlin from Bonn has been delayed repeatedly and is now not likely to be complete until the year 2000.
It has all put Berlin in the grip of something -- not quite depression but more than ennui. The "Berliner luft" seems not to be as crisp as it once was. The former West Berlin, which looked for years like a sort of generic European city, energized by serving as a vitrine for Western prosperity within the Eastern bloc, is now just the richer, more bourgeois side of town. The former East Berlin, meanwhile, struggles with a pace of change that turns out to be considerably slower than anyone had expected.
"How to describe the present emotions in Berlin?" muses Ulrich Roloff-Momin, the city's Senator for Culture. "After the euphoria of 1989, we are now in the desert. We have to march through to the other end -- but the wall in the mind is higher than the real wall was."
Officially, of course, Humpty Dumpty has put himself back together just fine. Virtually all traces of the wall are gone, except for a few -- too few -- short segments that have been retained as unofficial monuments. The U-Bahn and the S-Bahn, the subway and elevated trains that for 40 years had to stop and reverse course in midcity, now travel their full routes. The city governments of East and West have merged (occupying the original City Hall in East Berlin), the phone system is all one again and taxis go everywhere.
Depending on whom you talk to, the rejoining of the city is either a miracle or a logistical nightmare. Upon reunification, it became clear that the two sides of the city were in dramatically different condition. In East Berlin, gas lines were so poorly maintained that constant leaks killed trees; phone trunk lines were so scattered that, even now, it can take a year to get new service. Since cellular phones are readily available, many people simply leapfrog over conventional service: in East Berlin, as in much of Eastern Europe, it is common to see long lines of the phone-deprived in front of public telephone booths, while a few feet away, shop windows display the newest cellular models.
Eventually the phone lines will come. The real question for Berlin is what happens above ground, not below it. This city, more battered by the 20th century than any others except perhaps Beirut and Sarajevo, will be rebuilding itself for the next decade.
Berlin sprawls. It is six times the size of Paris in area and with its 3.5 million inhabitants spread out over 339 square miles, it is one of the least dense great cities of the world. It has never been a city of tall buildings, and until 1969, when the East Germans completed a bizarre, 1,200-foot-high television and observation tower in the city center, there was little else on the skyline big enough to be noticed. Unlike every other great metropolis in the world, its future form is uncertain. London is London, Rome is Rome, Tokyo is Tokyo, but Berlin is a question mark.
"SO, YOU WANT TO SEE THE model now, yes?" says Hans Stimmann, the stocky, white-haired bureaucrat who serves as the city's building director and is, by common agreement, the most powerful figure shaping the physical future of Berlin. An engineer by training, Stimmann, 53, has taught and practiced urban planning for close to three decades. "The model" is an extraordinary object, bigger than most living rooms, showing every building in Berlin's center and every new one that has been proposed. It is a deft piece of high tech: push a button corresponding to a new project and a rendering appears on a hanging screen while a computer-driven spotlight whirs around to focus on its three-dimensional miniature. This is city planning with the spectacle of a theme park and it is dazzling.
For Stimmann, the model also serves an important polemical purpose, since he is the chief advocate of the view that Berlin should develop itself along traditional lines. He feels that every sensible notion about building cities is already known and he refers often to "the European way of making cities," by which he means the presence of low, boxy buildings set tightly together along streets and squares. If architects would only follow these simple rules, he believes, all would be well.
"Berlin was totally destroyed by the bombs and after the war it was totally destroyed by the planners," Stimmann says. "Berlin is the only city in the world where the inner city is empty. We must bring this city back so that when we look in the mirror, we will know that it is our face. If we look like Hong Kong or Tokyo, nobody will come. Berlin must look like Berlin."
But what does making Berlin look like Berlin actually mean? Filling in the gaps left by the bombs and the wall with buildings that look like those that were demolished? Berlin never had a very consistent cityscape to start with; there is even less consistency to Berlin than to New York and no generic "Berlin building" the way a brownstone or a 14-story limestone and brick apartment house might be called a generic New York building.
Most of Berlin is low, to be sure, but there are great differences between the haute bourgeois neighborhood of Charlottenburg, the faded working-class district of Prenzlauerberg and the grand classical boulevard of Unter den Linden in East Berlin's civic heart. The street life, too, is intensely varied. On the wide Kufurstendamm, the glittering main artery of West Berlin, cafes and shops brim with people; the streets, too, are teeming. There may be just as much vitality in the slowly gentrifying neighborhoods of East Berlin, but after decades of repression, it still plays out less visibly -- the cafes full; the sidewalks empty.
While Stimmann hesitates to admit it, much of Berlin was shaped by the very modernist architecture that he is now trying to fight. Back in the 1920's, long before the fifth-rate postwar modernism of the East Germans, visionary architects like Bruno and Max Taut were designing extraordinary housing complexes in Berlin that came as close to fulfilling modernism's utopian dreams as anything in Europe.
Yet modern architecture, for all its ability to create beautiful buildings, left an awful legacy in city planning -- in Berlin and elsewhere. The modern movement failed at creating cities, even while it succeeded at making buildings that were beautiful abstract objects poised in space. Like post-modern architects in the United States -- whose arguments in many ways parallel Stimmann's and whose debate with modernists is not so different from the architectural battle of Berlin -- Stimmann understands the virtues of the urban fabric. But he often exaggerates them to the point of denying the virtues, even the artistic power, of great works of architecture that do not follow the urban rules.
He is nothing if not a brilliant rhetorician, taunting architects with antimodernist sloganeering. And they have no choice but to listen. Although he reports to Wolfgang Nagel, the city's Senator for Construction and Housing, it is Stimmann who sets many of the rules. He also chooses the juries for the architectural competitions that are required for most major projects. To be an architect on Stimmann's good side is to get plenty of work in Berlin; otherwise, you might as well be in Helsinki.
One architect who has risen to his bait, and fought more bitterly and more publicly with Stimmann than any other, is Daniel Libeskind. He is the 48-year-old architect of the city's new Jewish Museum, set to open next year -- a bold, even monumental, example of the deconstructivist style of architecture. The museum, whose sharp angles make it look like a stone tower in the form of a zigzag, is now being built at the edge of the Kreuzberg neighborhood, a few hundred yards south of where Checkpoint Charlie once stood. Libeskind's museum may be the most important single piece of architecture now rising in Berlin and it is as un-Stimmann-like as a building can be. And yet, despite all the attention the architect has gotten for the museum and other projects in Berlin, he recently decamped for Los Angeles.
"I love Berlin and its culture, but I could no longer commit myself to living there," Libeskind says. In Stimmann's approach, he declares, "There is an unnerving nostalgia for the past." Libeskind refers to the city's current building rules as "the total erasure of 50 years of history of this city. It is going back to a time when things were not problematic, coupled with an authoritarian idea of how to develop the city."
Stimmann replies: "Libeskind is an intellectual, but the city is a social system, and every house has to work as part of a society. I have no problem with Libeskind. Libeskind has a problem with me."
It is not merely avant-garde architects who quarrel with Stimmann; many real-estate developers are no happier. Mark Palmer, the bow-tied, boosterish former United States Ambassador to Hungary who now lives in Berlin and runs the Central European Development Corporation, complains about the "small-town mentality of Stimmannism."
Palmer's company has planned five large commercial buildings -- to be called the American Business Center -- at the Checkpoint Charlie site, the most famous crossing point between East and West. "Berlin could be the most important city in the world," Palmer says, but after being beaten down by the events of the last 50 years, "Germans are so used to being self-effacing, not bold." Stimmann's rules reinforce this way of thinking, he says. They have turned the Checkpoint Charlie project -- which includes a curiously post-modern office building by Philip Johnson with round dormer windows and slanted walls of glass -- into a piecemeal effort rather than the big single splash Palmer would have preferred.
There is also something piecemeal about the part of the new Berlin that is closest to completion: the series of office buildings, some also containing apartments, along the Friedrichstrasse in Mitte, the central commercial and institutional neighborhood of East Berlin. Several buildings are by internationally known architects, including Josef Kleihues, Henry I. Cobb of Pei Cobb Freed & Partners in New York and Jean Nouvel of Paris. The buildings all follow Stimmann's regulations in that they are low and built out to the street, but there is tremendous esthetic variation from one to the other and the street has more visual interest than Stimmann's critics would suggest his rules permit. The Nouvel building, surely the most sensual piece of modern architecture now going up in Berlin, is sheathed in curving glass, while a building by O. M. Ungers, a Hamburg architect, is a somewhat stern, almost prim box of crisply detailed stone. Whatever else can be said about this street, it is surely no Weimar Disneyland, no Main Street of fake 1920's-style buildings.
And yet nothing in the Friedrichstrasse is a fully successful piece of architecture, either, since all the buildings suffer from a tension between the architects' esthetics and Stimmann's rules. These are not architects who came to the party wanting to sit quietly, and while they have all behaved themselves, it is hard not to see in each building a sculptural shape bursting to break free.
But the struggle over just what form Berlin should take is more than a fight over architecture. It is about history, too, and about authenticity, and about which parts of this city's extraordinary and tragic past should be expressed in the developing new city. The very existence of the Checkpoint Charlie project, whatever its architectural form, stakes a claim for a Berlin that would rather bury some of its history than protect it. The spot where Russian and American tanks faced off in October 1961 will now be the site of an intricate building of stone and glass by David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
Already, every piece of the Berlin wall is gone from this area. To get a real sense of Checkpoint Charlie, you must walk a block to a private museum, a rabbit warren full of artifacts, cars and letters and photographs of those who escaped East Germany and those who died trying. As the surrounding area becomes an expensive commercial district, even the museum may be squeezed out by higher rents, leaving nothing but sleek office buildings to mark the spot where the world nearly exploded.
BERLIN HAS ALWAYS BEEN A CITY hospitable to the avant-garde and never more so than in its great heydey of the 1920's, when in Weimar Berlin, far more than anywhere else in Europe, modernism in art, theater, music and architecture grew alongside traditional high culture. What is troubling about the city's present architectural picture is the sense that in post-wall Berlin, the very openness to new ideas and new forms that for so long defined the city's culture is threatened by a desire to make Berlin too comfortable, too smooth, too easy. It is as if the city had gone from oppression to smugness in one step.
"Utopian visions are a bad thing in this city right now," says Kristin Freireiss, an art dealer whose Aedes Gallery, which specializes in architectural drawings, has come to function as a forum for the international architectural avant-garde in Berlin. She is an outspoken supporter of Libeskind, the California architect Frank Gehry and virtually every other architect whom Stimmann dislikes.
"What Stimmann wants is to go back into the last century," she says. "He thinks that all those rules are still accurate. He is saying he wants stone, he wants brick, the windows should be this size and that, and it gives no chance for the architect. Young architects are excluded here and they don't dare speak up about it, his power is such."
Freireiss's complaints notwithstanding, architects are cultural heroes in Germany. Virtually all major commissions in Berlin are awarded through architectural competitions and international architects must make up the majority of the seats on the jury. Even private real-estate developers are not free to select their own architects: the city, in the person of Stimmann's office, organizes a competition and participates in the process. "The typical developer in the United States would go bonkers if he had to put up with architectural competitions the way they're done there," says Jerry Speyer, the president of Tishman Speyer Properties, a New York-based developer with a major presence in Berlin. Speyer, whose firm is developing the Sony complex at Potsdamer Platz, had to simultaneously submit three different schemes from three different architects to win approval for a major building in the Friedrichstrasse project.
Such a system is expensive and, there being only so many architects, incestuous. Today's jury member is inevitably tomorrow's competitor. Probably no one has profited more from this system than Josef Kleihues, who has become the Philip Johnson of Berlin -- an eminent architect with an unusual combination of political power and esthetic clout. Kleihues, 61, was the chairman of the jury that awarded Libeskind the Jewish Museum commission and he has directed other jobs to other younger architects. He also has 14 of his own projects going up in Berlin, including a new art museum in the old Hamburger train station and a Four Seasons Hotel in the former East Berlin. Kleihues is the consummate Berliner: he turned a building on the Spree River that was once used to load garbage onto barges into a stylish architectural office and he still tours the city by a boat he moors beneath his drafting room. His work is sharply detailed, generally modernist but rarely extreme enough to offend the traditionalists; it deftly walks the tightrope between the city's politics and its architectural salons.
It is too soon to tell how much of Berlin's new architecture will be of world importance. For now, only Libeskind's Jewish Museum seems certain to be, although the renovation of the Reichstag, by the British architect Norman Foster, may turn out to be brilliant (Foster is giving this heavy monument of 19th-century German classicism a huge glass dome). The buildings going up at Potsdamer Platz may also attract international attention.
And there, for once, the right thing is happening. The master plan correctly uses traditional streets (and even a recreation of the octagonal form of Leipziger Platz just beside Potsdamer), but there is a considerable amount of architectural invention within the framework of that plan. The hope, of course, is that Potsdamer Platz can resume its role as Berlin's Piccadilly Circus. Not until the first years of the new century, however, will it be evident if Sony's ultra-high-tech theaters, for instance, turn Berlin into a true urban center or merely a first-class theme park.
Another great opportunity for Berlin lies in the plan to renovate Museum Island, the group of five classical museums on an island in the Spree River, including the Pergamon Museum and Schinkel's Altes Museum, the greatest 19th-century classical museum structure in the world. The winner of last year's architectural competition was the Italian Giorgio Grassi, who proposed a fairly modest scheme that put many functions underground while leaving the buildings largely undisturbed. But Wolf-Dieter Dube, the director of state museums for Berlin, preferred a much more assertive proposal by Frank Gehry. His design called for a glass roof over the Pergamon's courtyard, several amorphously shaped structures in open space beside the building and a series of new bridges, including one right into the Altes Museum.
Dube says he preferred the Gehry plan not only for its ability to better integrate the cluster of museums but simply because it would have been a powerful piece of contemporary architecture (and it would have given the conservative forces in Berlin a nudge). "I say to people in Berlin: 'What would you do with the New National Gallery by Mies van der Rohe?' " Dube says. " 'Would you accept that today? Would it be possible to construct the Philharmonic Hall by Scharoun?' "
Even though the Gehry plan did not win the competition, it may be built after all; the politics are complicated and no final decision is likely for another year. It hardly matters right now anyway, since the Government has awarded only a fraction of the $200 million that either scheme is likely to cost. Meanwhile, the buildings continue to crumble, thanks to the East Germans' poor maintenance of most of the monumental architecture that came into their possession.
One of the strangest results of the years of separation between East and West is that the Berlin Government inherits a virtually complete set of duplicate cultural institutions. Since the city's traditional cultural center around the Unter den Linden fell on the East Berlin side of the wall, the West German government simply created new institutions across town. Thus the Deutsche Opera, the counterpart to the State Opera; Mies van der Rohe's extraordinary New National Gallery, which serves as the opposite number to the old national museum, and the State Library, a remarkable building by the modernist architect Hans Scharoun that is the counterpart to the old Berlin Library. (The Berlin Philharmonic, the most famous cultural group of all, moved entirely to West Berlin to play in Scharoun's Philharmonie Hall, built in 1963 and one of the most most stunning orchestra halls, esthetically and acoustically, of the 20th century.)
With a couple of exceptions (most notably the Schiller Theater, which closed in 1993), Berlin is keeping them all. With an arts budget of roughly $800 million a year -- more than four times the budget of the National Endowment for the Arts -- Berlin is one of the most lavishly subsidized cultural communities in the world, despite a tenuous economy. Yet discussions of culture, even more than those about architecture, are perpetually haunted by the Berlin of the 1920's, the golden era beside which the present seems tired, weak. It is a paradoxical thing, this yearning for the city of Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht and Christopher Isherwood, for it is at once an exercise in nostalgia and a battle cry for the city to resist falling into the banality of mainstream culture.
Weimar Berlin was a true burst of culture, a staggering moment of dancing on the edge that could not have lasted. Its beginnings were made possible by the sudden openness of what, until the Weimar Republic was declared in 1918, had been a closed and oppressive society. There was a sense not only that the world could be made anew but that it had to be -- that Germany, having lost the war, was given a blank slate on which to write its future.
Of course, the new Berlin has also been defined by a sense of release at the outset. But after the initial euphoria came a marked decrease of artistic energy. There was a profound urgency to life in Berlin before 1989, as East Berliners and West Berliners faced one another across a wall that was brutal in its silence and as looming in their consciousness as a mountain. It was the defining presence of the city and tension emanated from it like radiation. Now, Berlin copes more with the pains and pleasures of adjustment to bourgeois, democratic life. It is an adjustment that is full of complexities, though not necessarily the sort out of which great art is made.
Ulrich Roloff-Momin, the city's Senator for Culture, offers another reason why Berlin after the wall will not become another Weimar Berlin. "The Jewish people were the focus of the cultural energy in the 1920's and they are not here," he says.
Of course, there is Daniel Barenboim, who heads the State Opera, and the other Daniel much talked about in Berlin, the architect Libeskind. But Roloff-Momin is largely correct: whereas Jews once dominated the cultural scene in Berlin, there are now few Jews in high cultural positions and not many more working as artists, musicians or actors.
Discussions about Germany -- and Berlin -- seem invariably to come around to the question of Jews. In 1933, the year Hitler came to power, the Jewish community of Berlin numbered 170,000. By the end of World War II, emigration and the Nazi killings brought this count down to about 5,000. There are still only about 9,000 Jews in Berlin today, with most new immigrants coming from Eastern Europe.
Yet the Jewish community in Berlin is highly visible, in part because of an overt effort on behalf of the city government. In 1993, the city published an elaborate English-language brochure, "Jewish Places in Berlin," complete with colored maps. It lists historical spots of note, including the sites of synagogues destroyed by the Nazis or by Allied bombs as well as synagogues where religious services are now conducted. The same city whose police stood by in 1938 as Nazi storm troopers set fire to synagogues on Kristallnacht now pays for 24-hour police protection for all Jewish institutions. The city provided much of the money to restore the facade of the so-called New Synagogue on Orianenburgerstrasse in the former East Berlin. The synagogue's stunning gilded dome, all but obliterated during the war, once again holds pride of place on the city's skyline.
This huge Moorish structure, which seats 3,000, was built in 1866 and was intended to be a prominent presence in the cityscape. Here, as much as anywhere, was Reform Judaism born, and the fact that Chancellor Otto von Bismarck attended the building's dedication was a clear sign of the desire of Berlin's Jews to be seen also as Germans. By the end of the century, the position of Jews in Germany was less secure, however, and by the time of Kristallnacht, the synagogue had become the most conspicuous target in Berlin.
The much-vaunted restoration, elegant though it is, is only partial. The enormous sanctuary, razed in the 1950's after being badly damaged by British bombs in 1943, has not been rebuilt, and may never be. The synagogue that stands proudly today, its golden dome visible all across town, is really no more than a stage set. There is a new Jewish community center right beside it and a kosher restaurant and cafe next door, but the building itself is a glittering, hollow shell.
There is a better sense to be had of the reality of Jewish life in Berlin today a short distance to the northeast, in the old working-class community of Prenzlauerberg. There, set back within a courtyard, sits the Rykestrasse Synagogue, built in 1903, the only intact old synagogue in all of Berlin. Its site within the courtyard seems to have saved it during Kristallnacht; since the red-brick synagogue is tightly surrounded by tenements, a fire would have put non-Jews at risk. Used by the German Army to store munitions during the war, it was restored to religious use in 1953 and was the only functioning synagogue in all of East Berlin.
The Rykestrasse Synagogue is still in use, with a congregation of a few dozen worshipers, mostly regular, from around Berlin. At an evening service I attended recently, they ranged from their 20's to their 70's and the cultural differences were tremendous: one young man wore an earring and a punk haircut and a middle-aged man was dressed in the black suit of the Hasidim, while the older men wore sweaters and slacks. A couple of children scampered around the small chapel as the cantor chanted the service. It was conducted entirely in Hebrew and had none of the rote quality that sometimes afflicts religious rituals. It seemed as if every one of these people knew that reciting Jewish prayers a couple of miles from the headquarters of the Gestapo was a historical miracle and wanted their voices to proclaim it as such.
If there is a bridge between the world of the Rykestrasse Synagogue and the contemporary culture of Berlin, it is probably Daniel Libeskind. Born in Poland in 1946, he is best recognized in New York as one of eight architects annointed by the Museum of Modern Art in its 1988 exhibition "Deconstructivist Architecture." In Berlin, of course, Libeskind is known more as a public complainer than an esthete. He has hinted more than a few times that the city would rather forget the pain of its history with the Jews and that his architecture prods Germans to recall the anguish they would prefer to deny.
Libeskind's Jewish Museum makes no effort to blend in quietly. Surely the most conspicuous sign of Berlin's desire to reflect its contemporary attitude toward the Jewish community, it is literally annexed to the Berlin Museum, an ornate stucco villa full of five centuries of Germany history.
The Jewish Museum's most important space is not a gallery but a concrete-walled atrium at the heart of the building that can only be peered into, not entered. Libeskind refers to it as "the void," meant to symbolize the absence of so much of the Jewish community of Berlin. The uneven, trapezoidal shape of the gallery spaces represents the long and uneven history of the Jews of Berlin. Inside, there will be religious artifacts, a panoply of art, from paintings to fashion to furniture, and a section devoted to the achievements of Jews who spent time in German concentration camps.
Will the museum work? Utterly unsentimental, it uses abstract form to make a point about history and culture, one of the hardest things for architecture to accomplish. It will unquestionably be a difficult building, but few structures have had higher ambitions, both for their users and for the art of architecture itself.
You can't build a city of Jewish Museums. No one, though, not even Daniel Libeskind, seems to want to. Sadly, Hans Stimmann seems determined to act as if Berlin were in danger of becoming nothing but a laboratory for architectural art pieces. The true danger, in fact, is just the opposite: that in a city of growing commercial strength, architecture, driven by economic urgency, will be fast, cheap and banal. Stimmann's rules do make some sense, as long as they can be interpreted loosely enough not to squeeze out all the architectural fresh air. After all, cities do need order, streets are essential and most buildings don't have any business being prima donnas. But every so often, a city deserves a special moment, and Berlin, held down for so long, needs some architectural exclamation points as much as any city anywhere.
BERLIN IS DIFFICULT, IRASCIBLE, cynical. No one in Germany was surprised that the debate over whether to bring the capital back to Berlin was long and bitter. To many German bureaucrats, the placidity of Bonn, where the Government has been the only game in town, is vastly preferable to the miasma of Berlin.
Berlin is also a city of risk. It has always danced on the edge, and this alone gives it special kinship with New York. But for a long time, it has danced close to the abyss of history, and by this measure, New Yorkers live in Podunk. The day-to-day ambiance of Berlin may be calmer than New York, the subway trains cleaner, the streets safer, the whole system more in control even with all the logistical snags in rejoining East and West. But on the stress index, the stakes have always been higher here, for everyone. No one in Berlin could escape the presence of the city's checkered history and, during the years of the wall, the terrifying possibility that their city might be the spot where the cold war ignited.
With that danger gone, Berlin is left with a question: In a new Berlin, what could be as compelling as the wall? No architect in the world could make a new symbol to equal it, for the wall succeeded in doing what no monument in the history of architecture has been able to do -- it insinuated itself into every citizen's life, every moment of every day. Monuments aspire to that, but they all fail, for even the best of them turn out, in the end, to be peripheral to daily life. But the wall was everywhere. It stopped time as much as it blocked space. The blunt, harsh, dumb wall, a piece of anti-architecture really, turned Berlin upside down and captivated the attention of the world for nearly 30 years, like some grotesque mutation of a Christo artwork that refused to go away. Five years after the wall fell, the city still feels the vastness of its void.
Berlin must get on with its life, but it cannot pretend the wall was never there, any more than it can pretend that the Nazi years did not happen. As the city struggles to define itself as a cultural and political capital for the reunited Germany, it faces a troubling paradox: the more successful it becomes at creating an ordinary, satisfying good life for its citizens, the less it will show its wounds. If Berlin dwells too much in the past, if it allows its history to be too visible, it cannot become the new city it yearns to become. But if it becomes only a new city, it will not be Berlin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Berlin's Scarred Heart - A 360-degree panorama taken from atop a cherry picker in Potsdamer Platz, the political and cultural heart of Berlin that was virtually destroyed during World War II. In 1961, the wall rammed through the area, acting for 28 years as the ultimate cold war enforcer. In some cases, sprawling apartments were built where grandiose government buildings once stood. But mostly, Potsdamer Platz was left to wither, and wait. (pg. 48); In what used to be East Berlin, the rebuilding is more than talk, as this view from the Grand Hotel illustrates. (pg. 46); A life-size replica of a room in the new Jewish Museum, the city's most visible sign of contrition. It was designed by Daniel Libeskind, right. (pg. 51); Checkpoint Charlie will soon be little more than a memory -- and a building complex. Right: A bombed-out East German department store that artists have made into a cultural center. (pg. 52)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARF ZIMMERMANN/OSTKREUZ, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN (GERMANY); GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (98%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



123 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
To Be Sure . . .

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
WANT TO ANticipate a rebuttal? Want to show how profoundly you understand your opponent's arguments before demolishing them? Then play the popular rhetorical game of to be sure . . . but.
This has nothing to do with the earliest meaning of the phrase, which is "to be certain." Nor is it synonymous with "of course," as in a 1657 discourse on the Book of Common Prayer: "Morning and Evening, to be sure, God expects from us . . . a publick worship." By 1795, a new sense emerged, of offering a concession before countering it: "The wind is contrary, to be sure, but it is far from a storm." The current, heavy use of the phrase in the prose of persuasion has that seemingly reasonable purpose, but it conceals the real goal: to pull the teeth of targets before they can bite back. 
 In op-ed-ese, admittedly is as outdated as true enough. Concededly is too likely to be confused with conceitedly. Stipulated is too legalistic, almost as billable to clients as arguendo. About the only other introduction to a grudging concession used these days is granted, but that, like admittedly, lacks the sonorous seriousness of the most voguish fang-extractor.
"To be sure, Mr. Gingrich has a right under House ethics rules to write a legitimately financed book and make money from it," goes a New York Times editorial. "But he cannot expect. . . ."
"To be sure, the next afternoon things were marginally better . . . ," Jonathan Yardley writes, coining his cliche in The Washington Post. "Still. . . ."
"To be sure, there will be no opportunity for cooperation in the middle," writes Norman J. Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute, pulling back his rubber band further for counterargument with "Indeed, the G.O.P. has maintained a strikingly high level of party unity," before snapping back soon with "But moving to the majority makes a difference."
The straw-man modifier, to be sure, is sometimes intended to lull the opponent into thinking a valuable point has been conceded; more often, it treats as minor a portion of the opposing argument while setting up an assertion of what the to-be-surer wants to be considered more important. The telltale clue in detecting the construction of the straw-man modifier is the contrarian conjunction: but, still, nonetheless.
In the ranks of the practitioners of this there-are-those-who-will-point-out school of rhetoric, however, nobody comes close to our Deputy Secretary of State, Strobe Talbott. Perhaps because he used to be a pundit for Time magazine, he is extraordinarily sensitive to the need to anticipate and tolerantly acknowledge counterargument.
"To be sure, elections are neither a panacea for social ills nor a guarantee of enlightened government," he lectured his audience at Oxford, adding, "Nonetheless. . . ." Then, "To be sure, the United States still has disputes with Russia and with China . . . but there is, for the first time, no defining polarization."
For variety, the adept concessionarian slipped the phrase into the middle of a sentence: "The central issue . . . did, to be sure, involve land and power. . . . But the cold war was not just about land and power." Then back to the old-fashioned way: "To be sure, there are still a few countries that continue to decorate their flags with red stars . . . but these holdout communist states, too, offer reason for what might be called strategic optimism."
Sometimes it takes an explosion of uses in a single place to shock us into taking the anti-cliche pledge. Because Mr. Talbott is the only professional writer at the high levels of the Administration, it is fair to thank him for his pyrotechnic display of to-be-surety. Granted, he didn't know he was doing it. . . .
 
Day 1
One is where it's at.
"The House has been up to the usual kind of political fighting," said Bob Franken, reporting on CNN, "even on Day 1." This usage was given prominence by Newt Gingrich's promise to hit the ground running on his Contract With America; asked about welfare changes that could take two years, the Speaker said, "I'm closer to Day 1."
The locution gained a purchase on the American vocabulary in the 1970's. "The game shows," Forbes magazine wrote in April 1975, ". . . make money from Day 1 for everyone." That year, The Economist in London discussed wage and price controls, using the phrase in "values at day one of the freeze." Business Week at the same time wrote of assets that "belong to your child from day one," suggesting that the phrase had its roots in the business world.
Those were the earliest Nexis citations, but a 1973 use was found in the Westlaw data base, searched by Fred R. Shapiro, editor of the Oxford Dictionary of American Legal Quotations; he found a judge's opinion about "experience . . . from day one until the end of time." The Dialog data base tracks it back even earlier to a Miami Herald sportswriter, Scott Fowler, who wrote on Dec. 31, 1939, "From day one, we knew there would be a market of people out there that would want to sit in the first couple of rows." (Everybody styles the phrase differently; The New York Times prefers Day 1.)
The phrase was popularized by the ABC television program "Day 1," which began in 1993. But the Gingrich use seemed to trigger a proliferation of usages. "This Week With David Brinkley" on ABC titled a program "The 104th Congress -- Week One," and a New York Times editorial was headed "Governor Whitman at Year One." (Here we are on the verge of Millennium Three, and nobody has yet referred to Millennium One.)
Can anyone find an earlier use of this booming locution than The Miami Herald in 1939? If so, you may be the discoverer of Day 1's Day 1.
 
Construing the News
"News of my imminent departure or resignation," said Secretary of State Warren Christopher, "are neither new nor accurate."
Maybe the ordinarily careful lawyer meant reports, a plural subject; maybe he mentally substituted an and for the or and incorrectly made that the subject of his sentence; maybe he was so deeply "into denial," as the psychobabblers say, that he engendered subject-verb disagreement.
The only other possibility is that the Secretary construed news as plural, taking the plural verb are. (Media, for example, is construed as plural; one should never say, "The media is.")
Mr. Christopher would not be the first American public figure to treat news as plural. Legend has it that Horace Greeley, editor of The New York Tribune during the Civil War, sent this telegraph message to one of his correspondents near a battlefield: "Are there any news?" To which the reporter supposedly cabled back: "Not a new."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); ETHICS (65%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM NEWT GINGRICH (56%); STROBE TALBOTT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



124 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Channel Tunnel

 BODY:
To the Editor: We enjoyed the article "At Last, a Train Under the Channel" (Dec. 4).
My wife and I traveled on the Chunnel train from London to Paris in November. As the article said, the convenience and economy of traveling from central city to central city is unbeatable. 
 We had nonrefundable second-class tickets, purchased in New York for $75 each. Since the trip takes only three hours and we arrived in Paris at 12:30 P.M., I cannot see why anyone would want to go first class and have a meal on the train, when upon arrival you have all the great restaurants in Paris to choose from.
Traveling on Eurostar is similar to Amtrak's Metroliner. The only time you realize its speed is when you note how quickly automobiles on the adjoining highway are overtaken. The actual tunnel segment doesn't feel any different from a New York subway, except it's smooth and quiet.
Our only complaint was that that snack, coffee and liquor service in the bar car was very slow, mainly because of the inexperience of the personnel. Also, it would be nice if there were some souvenir postcards or booklets available.
 
DANIEL G. SMITH
New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON (ENG); PARIS (FRANCE); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; CHANNEL TUNNEL BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); 

PERSON: SMITH, DANIEL G DANIEL G SMITH NEW YORK (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



125 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
A Key State Rental-Housing Program Survives Test

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
WHEN the owner of a regulated apartment is allowed a rent increase to pay for major capital improvement work, should the increase become part of the permanent base rent? Or should it drop off, as though it were a surcharge, after the cost is recovered?
This was the most significant question that the New York State Court of Appeals laid to rest in reaching a decision in December on a case that has been perking in the court system for 12 years. The increase becomes part of the base rent, said the unanimous court, supporting the position of the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which administers the Major Capital Improvement program, and of property owners themselves. 
 The court also ruled that such increases may not exceed 6 percent in any one year. In many cases the housing agency had been granting temporary retroactive increases on top of the 6 percent increase to compensate owners for the time it took -- almost three years on average in the mid-80's -- to process an application for a rent increase after the work was completed.
"The statute unequivocally places a ceiling on the total increased rental amount that may be collected in a given year -- spreading the excess forward, thereby protecting tenants from precipitous rent increases," the court said. This finding was a victory for the tenants who joined a class-action suit started by the Bryant Avenue Tenants Association in the Bronx in 1983. The case was pursued on behalf of the class by Legal Services for New York City. As in so many long-running lawsuits affecting housing, the decision comes at a time when housing circumstances are far different from what they were when the suit was initiated. The ambitious building improvement work undertaken by rental owners during a rising real-estate market is largely a thing of the past. Instances of rent-increase applications reaching 20 percent a year had fueled the lawsuit. The affected tenants normally would be paying lease-renewal increases as well.
Moreover, state policy decisions have long since eased the impact of rent increases attributable to capital improvements. Before state takeover of regulation of the rent-stabilized (mainly post-World War II) housing stock in 1984, there was no legal limit on the annual rent increase owners could seek. The state set one at 15 percent a year. Then it reduced the limit to 6 percent, allowing retroactivity to compensate for processing time.
The housing agency also raised the length of the payback period itself. It had been five years; the state lifted it to seven. But it never embraced the idea of eliminating the increase from the base rent after the payback period ended.
What remains, with the legal issue decided, is the challenge of administrative efficiency -- one among several challenges involving regulated housing that the new administration of Gov. George E. Pataki faces. In the latter years of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the Office of Rent Administration brought down the average processing period to under a year, by adding processors to the Owner Multiple Application Bureau, state officials say. But why, it might be asked, should it take even a year to process applications for major capital improvement allowances?
Joseph E. Holland, a 38-year-old lawyer and businessman from Harlem who is the newly appointed commissioner of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said he had "no doubt there are efficiencies that can be gained, but it's too early to speak about rent administration."
JUST last week Governor Pataki proposed in his over-all budget for fiscal 1996, starting April 1, a $1.3 million cut for the Office of Rent Administration, and a staff reduction of 38 people. How this will affect processing in general is not clear, but Mr. Holland said of the Major Capital Improvement program itself, "It's a good program because it encourages owners to invest in their property."
The likelihood is that the slowdown in the real-estate market itself is the main reason for the decline in major-capital-improvement work. In addition, many buildings have already done basic systems replacements, often in conjunction with plans to convert buildings to co-ops.
Now owners have to be more concerned about the ability of tenants in place to handle the rent increases required by improvements. "Many rents are already at market level today," said Jeff Chanchall, a partner in Realty Program Consultants of Fresh Meadows, Queens, who handles major-capital-improvement rent-increase applications on behalf of owners. "They do the work and they find they can't collect from 15, 20, 30 percent of the building."
Nevertheless, the slowness of the application process, coupled with the retarded payback period, are probably factors in the declining use of the major capital improvement program. Mark Engel, president of Langsam Property Services Corporation, which owns or operates 250 rental properties in the Bronx and Manhattan, said the affordability issue and the lengthy payback period have made the program "almost obsolete" for any improvement work that is not essential for building survival.
"The 6 percent limit over seven years is too little to induce owners to do capital improvement work unless it is absolutely essential for the building," Mr. Engel said.
That was in fact the goal of tenant organizations that fought the program years ago. They believed that many owners were making improvements the building didn't need, merely to lift rents closer to market level -- the rent that would be obtainable in a unit if it were unregulated. Tenants forced to move out could be replaced at higher rents.
The Office of Rent Administration reports that there were only 1,168 applications for major-capital-improvement rent increases in the state's 1994 fiscal year -- which ended last March 31 -- and there are only 1,004 so far in the current year. In fiscal 1991, no great year for real-estate investment, there were 2,385 applications, and the decline has been steady ever since.
The decline in the use of the program is attributable to the reduction in the incentive, the fact that higher rents are now less affordable, and the completion of much work in the 80's, said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, an owner organization.
"The 6 percent limit would not be so crucial if the applications could be processed in three to six months," he said. He urged adoption of a fast-track system with rent increases approved on the basis of certification by contractors that work had been completed, dispensing with the current system requiring prior state inspections. The housing division would then do spot post-auditing, raising the specter of rent decreases and penalties for law violators.
The state division itself tried to introduce a self-certification system in 1987 but it was stopped in court on the ground that tenants were inadequately informed of the plan and no hearings were held on it. The agency dropped the plan.
PAUL J. Korngold, a lawyer who represents owners in filing applications, noted that current procedures make it simple for a disaffected tenant to delay an application's approval. All it takes is the filing of an objection, after the tenant is notified by the state of the owner's application, and the reasons for it. For example, the tenant may rightly say that a new window doesn't operate properly. And indeed it may not. But under current procedures, the minor repair needed may hold up a buildingwide increase for new windows for many months.
In fact, any buildingwide rent-reduction order resulting from a services complaint can undermine an owner's application for an M.C.I. increase. "A dirty hallway can stop a $1 million rent increase for a buildingwide rewiring," said Edwin K. Zarkin, president of Realty Program Consultants.
Another problem from the owners' standpoint is that processors themselves lack the professional experience that their predecessors had in the old Conciliation and Appeals Board, the quasi-governmental agency that did this work in New York City before state takeover of stabilization in 1984. The C.A.B. had accountants on staff as processors.
In the Bryant Avenue Tenants Association case, Iris J. Korman appeared before the Court of Appeals for the Division of Housing and Community Renewal. Andrew Scherer of Legal Services for New York City represented tenants and Joseph L. Forstad of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan represented the Rent Stabilization Association.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Suit over the state's Major Capital Improvement program, decided by the Court of Appeals in December, began 12 years ago with a complaint filed by tenants at 876 Bryant Avenue in the Bronx. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); Joseph E. Holland, a Harlem businessman who is the new head of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, in Albany office. (Dave Jenkins for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RENT CONTROL; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LITIGATION (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S JOSEPH E HOLLAND (61%); GEORGE E PATAKI (61%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



126 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
The Odds Favor More Gaming Locales in the State

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
SHORELINE STAR, a $40 million greyhound track and clubhouse with a seating capacity of 2,600 is under construction in Bridgeport on the banks of the Pequonnock River. It will replace the Bridgeport Jai-Alai Fronton that has been operating since 1976 on 22 acres off exit 28 of Interstate 95.
When it opens in November it will feature remote betting computers at each seat, restaurants, bars, parimutuel wagering, simulcasting of nationwide sporting events and parking for 1,050 cars. 
 Bridgeport Jai-Alai, a familiar fixture just off Exit 28 of I-95 since 1976, has been under financial pressure since 1988, when a three-year players' strike was followed by abbreviated six-month seasons, with Milford Jai-Alai operating for the remaining six months. The Bridgeport building will be demolished -- probably by April 1996, says its owner -- and Milford will stay open year round.
The dog track is the only new gaming project in Connecticut since the Foxwoods Resort Casino opened on the 1,200-acre Mashantucket Pequot reservation in Ledyard in 1992. Its phenomenal succes has galvanized the state's comparatively sleepy gaming industry into competitive action, encouraged by the amenable attitude toward gaming that prevails in Gov. John G. Rowland's administration.
A. Robert Zeff, owner of the jai-alai property, and Mirage Resorts of Las Vegas have proposed a $400 million casino and entertainment complex on 50 riverfront acres that Mr. Zeff has optioned off exit 29 of I-95, currently owned by the Carpenter Technology Company. A competing casino proposal is being promoted by Donald Trump for the five-acre former Jenkins Valve Company parcel that he owns near downtown Bridgeport.
Both developers presented their plans to the Joint Public Safety Committee of the General Assembly last month in anticipation of a bill to be presented before the end of the legislative session in May that is expected to authorize just one casino in Bridgeprt. If approved, it would also authorize the expansion of electronic gaming devices in the state's three jai-alai frontons, two dog-track complexes, nine off-track betting parlors and four simulcast theaters.
Senator Angelina Lee Scarpetti, a Trumbull Republican who is a member of the committee, said that the prospect for passage "looks good for the first time." A similar bill on a Bridgeport casino failed last year, when then Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. promised to veto it.
If the legislature approves the measure, it will cost the state about $130 million a year from the Pequot operation. The Pequots are currently paying that amount under an agreement with Governor Weicker that will be automatically terminated if gambling facilities are established elsewhere in the state.
GOVERNOR Weicker negotiated the compact to get around the casino's Federal exemption from all taxes as property on an Indian reservation. The Pequots agreed to pay the state 25 percent of their gaming revenues provided the state prohibited any form of nonreservation casino gaming, slot machines or table games.
Mr. Trump and Mirage have stated that they would compensate the state fully for the loss. But Senate Majority Leader James T. Fleming, a Simsbury Republican who is a staunch opponent of gaming casinos, is not satisfied.
"That only levels the playing field," he said. "Are they willing to make that up and give us additional revenue? The state will lose hundreds of millions of dollars from the Pequots, and we will have to create an expensive state gaming regulatory commission."
Indian casinos are regulated at Federal government expense.
Meanwhile, activity within the industry is increasing. The Mohegans have obtained approval to build a casino on their reservation in the Town of Montville, situated about 12 miles west of Foxwoods. And the state's jai-alai frontons and dog tracks, complaining that they are losing substantial business to Foxwoods, want legislative approval to install a smorgasbord of electronic gaming devices to be competitive.
"They were going downhill for years before we opened," said G. Michael Brown, president of Foxwoods. "We are just incurring the blame. We're our own worst enemy that way. We have spawned an East Coast gaming boom."
Confident that it can handle any competition, Foxwoods is expanding its 194,000-square-foot gaming floor to 243,000 square feet. A steak house is under construction bringing the number of on-site restaurants to 13, and 165 rooms are to be added to the 280-room Two Trees Inn, one of two on-site hotels that have been 94 to 96 percent occupied.
Mayor Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport, flushed with a $1.7 million surplus and the elimination of an $18 million deficit that had the city on the brink of bankruptcy three years ago, is squarely behind a casino operation, no matter which developer the state eventually chooses. His director of economic development, Michael Freimuth, said that a casino would have "a stimulative effect, with a direct impact on jobs and property taxes."
While the 16-square-mile city has been unable to attract new business to replace the decades-long drain of industries gone south, it has retained the largest population in the state at 141,000, down by only 2,000 since the mid-1980's.
In an effort to improve the appearance of its grittier districts the city is setting up a development bank called the Lower East Side Development Corporation. Each year a portion of the gaming revenues paid by the dog track would be earmarked for paying down the debt on bonds floated to fix up surrounding housing, streets and open space.
BUT Mr. Freimuth is concerned about the distribution of the much larger revenues that the state could collect from a casino. Money that the state gets from Foxwoods is distributed under a formula that gives all of the state's 169 municipalities property tax relief. "A casino is not a be-all and end-all," he said. "It must spill over into the neighborhood. We need housing and infrastructure improvements here that local property taxes will not cover."
Throughout Bridgeport the prospect of a casino is viewed as a long-sought route to a brighter future. "we've had a hard time finding any local opposition," said David Grimshaw, head of the Black Rock Community Council, a citizens' group. "We've all seen what an incredible boon the Ledyard casino has been to local business, and to let something like that go to another city is something that people here don't want to happen. The loss of our commercial tax base is one of Bridgeport's biggest problems."
But Senator Fleming noted that church groups and the residents of suburban Bridgeport had strong objections, citing negative social aspects of compulsive gambling and prostitution, and additional degredation of downtown hotels and businesses when casino patrons who are offered every amenity on the premises never leave them.
"Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island are also considering casinos," he said. "We will be over-saturated and the casinos will not generate the revenues they anticipate."
"The Federal Government," he added, "has warned us that if Fairfield County fails to clean up its air it will not allow any more business expansion. A casino in Bridgport will generate up to 30,000 polluting vehicles a day on already clogged highways. Do we want to put all our eggs in that one basket?"
Mr. Brown and the Pequots are sanguine. "I'm sure a casino would help Bridgeport, and we would save $130 million a year," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rendering of Shoreline Star greyhound racetrack complex rising in Bridgeport. (Jeffrey Sommers/The Kasper Group); A. Robert Zeff, the president of Bridgeport Jai Alai. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CRS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS332811 METAL HEAT TREATING (54%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3398 METAL HEAT TREATING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (69%); CARPENTER TECHNOLOGY CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DOG RACING; JAI ALAI (SPORT) JAI ALAI (93%); CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); RESORTS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); VETO (70%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DONALD TRUMP (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



127 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2530 words

HEADLINE: Legally or Not, 1-Family House Is Often Home To 2 Families

BYLINE: By TESSA MELVIN 

DATELINE: CROTON-ON-HUDSON, N.Y.

 BODY:
GEORGIANA and John Grant have raised eight children in their sprawling ranch-style house here while accumulating enough memories, friends and nearby grandchildren to want to stay in their home forever. Thanks to the rental income from their second floor, now a two-bedroom apartment, they can.
"I hope they never move," Mrs. Grant said of Kathleen and Hubertus Franke, the young professional couple who live upstairs. "When they do, we would have to if we didn't have someone else to move in." Mrs. Grant, a trustee of the village, is seeking re-election. "We love Croton," she said, "and we're not moving. That's why we have the accessory apartment." 
 The $800 monthly rent pays almost all of the Grants' $9,970 annual tax bill, easing pressure on the couple's pensions -- his from Metro-North, where he worked as a conductor, hers from 15 years as a personnel manager at I.B.M.
The arrangement benefits both couples, in sometimes unexpected ways. In summer, Ms. Franke often returns from her epidemiology studies at New York Medical College to find succulent tomatoes and zucchini from the Grants' garden waiting at her door.
Last winter, Mr. Franke came home from his job as a research scientist at I.B.M.'s nearby Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights and spent part of a bitter cold evening on the Grants' roof, chopping away ice threatening the roof. In season, everybody uses the family pool.
The Frankes say they like the arrangement. "In an apartment complex, you're always walking by people you don't know," Mr. Franke said. "You never make connections."
The Grants are among thousands of metropolitan area homeowners who have created separate housing units from the excess space in their single-family homes. They are one of the few families to do so legally. In this Westchester County village, authorities estimate that there are about 150 illegal units; only four units, the Grants' among them, are legal.
The pattern is the same throughout the region, and perhaps the nation. In a classic display of supply-and-demand economics, the Grants and their tenants are visible examples of the burgeoning accessory apartment market, most of it illegal, which has developed as suburban property owners profit from the demand for affordable rental housing.
No national study has documented the extent of this essentially invisible housing, but every mail carrier knows where there are double mail boxes, every public works department knows where to pick up separate piles of trash in front of one house, and every neighbor knows where there may be too many cars. In Nassau and Suffolk Counties alone, the Long Island Regional Planning Board has found at least 100,000 illegal accessory units in areas zoned for single-family houses.
Affordable rental housing for young professional couples, single parents and even small families who want a suburban lifestyle has become increasingly scarce. In Westchester County alone during the 1980's, 34,015 rental apartment were converted to cooperatives and condominiums, while few rental units have been built.
The accessory apartments' landlords are often "empty nesters," homeowners burdened by taxes they can no longer afford, bouncing around in space they no longer need. Some of them are young couples who need help paying the mortgage.
"People think there still is a single-family suburban town out there, but it's a fiction," said Frank DeRubeis, Director of Planning in Smithtown, L. I. "The typical Ozzie and Harriet family is just a minor component of the suburban population. The majority are older people, single parents or unmarried young adults, and single-family housing does not meet their housing demands."
The issue is a volatile one for single-family homeowners convinced their suburban lifestyle is under attack. Many fear that legalization of accessory apartments is tantamount to creating two-family homes, lowering property values, creating parking problems and adding children whose parents pay no school taxes to already burdened school systems.
Those fears are unfounded, planners say. "There is no reliable or substantial evidence that accessory apartments do anything to run down a neighborhood," said Patrick H. Hare, president of a Washington planning and design firm that specializes in accessory apartments. These units, he said, are "a runaway success in the hundreds of communities which have legalized them, providing invisible, affordable housing with no subsidies."
In some of the communities that have legalized accessory housing, however, residents and officials say the results have been mixed. Officials in Somers, in Westchester County, are currently reviewing their 13-year-old legalization law following complaints from residents. Although intended to increase the town's supply of affordable housing, the law has allowed landlords to charge premium rental rates, residents say, helping neighbors enhance their own property values while the values of the houses near them decline.
"The law was not meant to be an economic boon to property owners," said William Harding, the Town Supervisor. But "how do you make more affordable housing opportunities and not change people's neighborhoods? You can't. A community has got to accept that change will occur."
The controversy surrounding accessory apartments has led many communities to ignore them rather than regulate their existence. But in Hastings-on-Hudson, and in Rivervale, N.J., in northern Bergen County, officials are considering legalizing accessory units despite vigorous objections from single-family homeowners.
"Do we really want to increase the density of the neighborhood?," asked Dr. Mitchell Berman, a physician who lives in Hastings-on-Hudson. "That's what is being debated. People who are committed to a single-family neighborhood don't want that changed. It's not fair."
Legalizing the apartments, Dr. Berman said, would cause their numbers to increase. Although the proposed law may have the support of elderly residents, Dr. Berman said, "when the senior moves away, the apartment will stay. Who's going to tear it out?"
William Lee Kinnally, the Mayor of Hastings-on-Hudson, said that the village is simply trying to control what already exists and that most elderly residents would not be able to afford the $10,000 to $20,000 needed to transform part of a house into an accessory apartment. "Accessory apartments are here now," Mayor Kinnally said. "We have to be able to regulate what we have already got."
The proposed Hastings law would allow 50 accessory apartments. Officials are considering a 90-day amnesty period for owners of illegal apartments to come forward without having to comply with off-street parking and apartment-size requirements -- from 300 to 1,000 square feet, with a maximum size of 25 percent of the house -- stipulated in the proposed law. If more than 50 people come forward, the law would be reconsidered. New enforcement procedures would allow anonymous complaints and set stiff financial penalties for violations.
Owners of illegal apartments usually have little motivation to come forward, said Carol M. Walsh, principal research analyst in the Suffolk County Planning Department. "Most towns have an extra garbage tax and reassess for improvements," Ms. Walsh said, adding that most local laws attach onerous burdens for compliance. "The big kicker is that lovely income that has to be reported to the I.R.S.," Ms. Walsh observed. "Most people would rather have the cash."
Rivervale is considering a law especially designed to help its elderly residents. Councilman William Saydeh, who opposes the legislation, said: "This ordinance doesn't fulfill any purpose except to downgrade the area. It abrogates our responsibility to protect the rights of those who have purchased single-family homes here."
Mr. Saydeh said he is concerned about the growth of unregulated accessory apartments, but added that legalizing them was not the answer. After checking with several nearby towns that have adopted accessory apartment ordinances -- including Old Tappan and Mahwah -- Mr. Saydeh said he has found that the legalization has not encouraged homeowners to apply for permission.
Should Rivervale pass its ordinance, Dick Thompson, a retired music teacher and composer in Rivervale, will be one of the first to apply. "I need this desperately if I'm going to be able to stay here when my wife retires," said Mr. Thompson, who already has a separate unit in his house that he created for his parents. "All my doctors, my friends and my music groups are here. Why should I have to give up my home?"
Accessory apartment ordinances are becoming more common. In the last decade, 13 Westchester communities have adopted local laws allowing some form of accessory housing. Similar statutes are on the books in Westport, Weston and Greenwich, Conn., and in the Long Island communities of Babylon, Brookhaven, Babylon and Hempstead, among others.
In each of these communities, illegal accessory apartments continue to far outnumber legal ones. Most local officials say they are uneasy about enforcing local laws and evicting friends and neighbors. "Enforcement is always a problem in a small town -- you make a lot of enemies," said Mrs. Grant.
Mr. DeRubeis, the Smithtown Director of Planning, agreed. "You don't get kudos for kicking people out of their homes," he said. There are 1,800 or more illegal accessory apartments in Smithtown, which has not legalized them, he said; they represent 5 percent to 8 percent of the town's housing stock.
"Legalizing them doesn't solve the problem," Mr. DeRubeis said. "You still have lots of illegal apartments which can't meet the codes. They are a very large percentage."
Ms. Walsh, the Suffolk analyst, said: "It's a catch-22. If municipalities are going to enforce the law, they'd better think where these people are going to live. Accessory apartments are the closest we have to affordable housing on Long Island."
Local officials do enforce the law whenever they receive a complaint, Mr. DeRubeis said, adding that the process can be very expensive. One recent dispute took 11 months in court, and while Smithtown finally prevailed, the suit cost taxpayers $10,000 in legal fees, he said.
The American Planning Association reports that studies show that the presence of an ordinance legalizing accessory-apartments does not encourage single-family homeowners to create an accessory unit, and that the absence of such a law does not discourage them.
As municipalities wrestle with the issue, the growing number of illegal accessory apartments in single-family homes is also producing headaches for real estate appraisers, agents and banks.
Homeowners who want to sell a property with an illegal accessory apartment often remove the second stove before the appraiser arrives. "When you see a hole in a countertop, you must be suspicious," said Eugene Albert, chairman of Albert & Sterling, a real estate appraisal company in Tarrytown, N.Y.
While the owner usually describes the area as a "guest area" or "place for the kids," Mr. Albert said, if the appraiser sees a stove in what is typically a basement apartment, "we would discount the value of the lower level; The unit would have to be seen as a two-family house."
Real estate agents face similar problems. Frustrated brokers have to be warned repeatedly not to advertise illegal apartments using such terms as "mother-daughter unit," or "in-law apartment," said P. Gilbert Mercurio, executive vice president of the Westchester County Board of Realtors. A five-bedroom single-family home with an illegal two-bedroom apartment, Mr. Mercurio said, "can only be advertised as a single family home with five bedrooms."
Two years ago, Peter J. Russo, president of the Residential Mortgage Banking Company in Hauppauge, L. I., grew tired of what he called "the machinations" required to accommodate mortgage requests from young applicants relying on illegal rental income. "We knew they would use the rental income, but we had to require a parent to co-sign," Mr. Russo said. "It all seemed so silly."
Mr. Russo launched an effort to persuade towns on Long Island to simplify their procedures for allowing accessory apartments. Most refused. "They are resisting urbanization of the suburbs," Mr. Russo said, "but it already exists. Anyone who wants an accessory apartment has one; no one turns anyone in, and it's almost a joke."
The Grants have a legal accessory apartment because they live in a village that has tried to help the nearly one quarter of the population over 55 stay in their homes.
In 1982, Croton-on-Hudson passed a law permitting accessory housing provided either the tenant or the owner is aged 55. The owner must live in the home, the apartment is limited to a certain size, off-street parking is required for each car, only one front entrance is allowed and permits are limited to 2 years.
Although Croton-on-Hudson's law has not attracted many applicants, the trend is gaining strength elsewhere, supported by the American Association of Retired Persons, which is drafting a model ordinance to distribute to communities.
"Older people overwhelmingly want to stay where they have always lived -- in the suburbs," said George Gaberlavage, senior analyst in the organization's Public Policy Institute. But "they need income." Half of all older adult homes have three or more bedrooms, he said, "surplus space which can provide low-cost housing and revitalize neighborhoods." The key, he said, is designing legislation that meets community concerns.
The Croton law is not properly enforced, said Arcadia Kocybala, who tried unsuccessfully to sell her Croton home after a neighbor got permission for an accessory apartment and then moved out after renting additional space in the home to a tenant who ran a psychic reading business.
"Zoning is a contract which the homebuyer enters into with the municipality," Ms. Kocybala said. "Accessory apartments create de-facto two-family zoning. which lowers your property value. Single-family zoning should entitle you to peaceful enjoyment of your property."
The growing older adult population in the suburbs is putting increasing pressure on communities to allow accessory apartments. Passage of such a law has proved particularly successful in Greenwich, which now has 175 legal accessory apartments.
The law, similar to Croton's, limits units to 800 square feet, making them too small for families, said Diane W. Fox, assistant town planner, but the apartments are attractive rentals for young professional couples who cannot afford to buy in Greenwich.
Municipal officials and area planners agree that the accessory apartment market, legal or not, is likely to grow as family size continues to shrink, home ownership costs increase and the demand for affordable, rental housing grows amid the continuing loss of free-standing rental units to co-ops and condominiums.
Single-family homeowners are just as likely to continue their opposition. "Our homeowners resent two-family homes," said Mr. Harding, the Somers Town Supervisor. "They want Ozzie and Harriet back."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Georgiana and John Grant with Hubertus Franke, who with his wife, Kathleen, rents an apartment in the Grants' Croton-on-Hudson home. (pg. 1); John and Georgiana Grant in their kitchen in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CROTON-ON-HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; ZONING; LIFE STYLES GRANDCHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CITIES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: GRANT, JOHN (CROTON-ON-HUDSON); GRANT, GEORGIANA; FRANKE, HUBERTUS; FRANKE, KATHLEEN; MELVIN, TESSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



128 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: Big Change In Teaching Of Foreign Languages

BYLINE: By PRISCILLA VAN TASSEL 

 BODY:
NEW technologies and curriculums are transforming the teaching of foreign languages in the state's high schools, supplanting techniques that have produced generations of foreign-tongue-tied Americans.
Minitel, a French version of America Online, and the Internet are being used to keep students tuned in and turned on to language study, and the emphasis has shifted from textbooks and grammar to conversation. The changes, experts say, help explain the increase in enrollment in foreign language courses in recent years. 
 But there is also considerable confusion as some teachers resist the new pedagogy while others struggle to keep pace with it, and students find that, for all their newfound fluency, their progress is not always rewarded on standardized tests like the S.A.T. II.
"The materials are there," said Ada Ortuzar-Young, immediate past president of the Foreign Language Educators of New Jersey. "The problem is the teachers don't know how to use them yet."
Dr. Ortuzar-Young, chairman of the Spanish department at Drew University and director of its Latin American studies program, said there are many multimedia programs to choose from that individualize instruction and make it possible to learn a second language faster and more thoroughly.
In one CD-ROM, for example, while information is presented on screen, a small window on the computer screen shows the closeup of the speaker's face. "If you see the movement of the lips and the tension of the muscles in the mouth and face, you can get a better feeling of how that sound is produced," she said.
But few New Jersey high schools are making full use of the computers they possess, Dr. Ortuzar-Young said, and the Foreign Language Educators are trying to organize workshops at Drew to train more public school teachers in how to integrate the new material into the classroom.
Rosanne Zeppieri, a teacher of French and Spanish at the High Technology High School, a magnet school for math, science and technology in Monmouth County, is surrounded by computers in her classroom, but she still relies on textbooks for basic instruction. She uses technology to supplement those studies.
A laser disk, for example, allows her French students to view duplicates of paintings found at the Louvre on their computer monitors, listen to explanations of them in French or English and reproduce the images for use in written reports. In another program, words in a text can be highlighted, and a translation, grammatical information and other words of the same family appear on screen.
"It's like having a teacher right there with you," she said, "and it's all individualized so students can do it at their own pace."
Ms. Zeppieri's students use Minitel and the Internet to communicate with French students around the world. The topics are as diverse as the interests of the students themselves. In one recent class, her students debated students from the Netherlands on the wisdom of legalizing drugs, all in French.
Meanwhile, a number of new curriculums have been introduced. Two popular ones are "French in Action" and "Destinos" for Spanish students, both on videos. Students view sagas replete with attractive young characters, romance and intrigue and then discuss the show. A typical episode of "Destinos" concludes with the heroine's veering her car sharply into a ditch to avoid an oncoming truck.
Grammar is secondary to listening and understanding the story. "It's as close to immersion as you can get," said Judy Wenner, chairman of the foreign language department at the Blair Academy in Blairs town, which has just switched over to the curriculums. "The idea is to get students interested, and then a lot of the technical language will be acquired just from hearing it."
But some teachers are finding it hard to leave books and workbooks behind. "I still see young teachers coming out of school being taught in a very traditional way and having difficulty with their own proficiency, especially speaking," Mrs. Wenner said.
Curriculums like "French in Action" and "Destinos" have their roots in a movement begun in the 1970's but only recently gaining widespread popularity, called the "communicative" approach. Here, the emphasis is not on grammar and translation but on the ability to communicate effectively, which proponents argue will be achieved by immersion in the language -- much as a child learns a first language.
Facial expressions and gestures are as important as the spoken word. For example, "French in Action" students are urged in the foreword to the material to note the "typical" French handshake practiced by two of the story's characters: "One takes the hand of the other, shakes it up and down strongly once, and then on the up-movement the two hands are released. (This shake is shorter and much more vigorous than an equivalent American handshake)."
Mary Coleman, coordinator of special projects for the Yale University Press, which publishes "French in Action," said students learning French through the program will eventually master grammar. But Erwin Petri, supervisor of the foreign language department at Millburn High School, warned that students who intend to take advanced placement exams are better off with more traditional methods.
"For example, in the passe compose, there are agreements on the end of the participles that are never heard when you speak," he said, "and on the Advanced Placement exam you have to know all the minute rules of things."
Nevertheless, Mr. Petri is an enthusiastic supporter of "French in Action" and "Destinos" for other students, including those with learning disabilities who may have difficulty with written words.
In keeping with the communicative approach to language acquisition, Millburn has replaced its one-and-a-half-hour written examinations with a 15-minute oral exam for all foreign language students except those taking Advanced Placement exams or Latin. There is also a small written component done in class, like writing a short letter or postcard to a friend.
Other school districts have investigated Millburn's testing plan, and the biggest stumbling block for those who decide against it, Mr. Petri said, is the logistical problem of scheduling the exams.
Educators say students seem more interested in learning one or more foreign languages with the new curriculums, and the number of public school students signing up for foreign language courses has been growing. The New Jersey Department of Education says that the number of foreign language teachers in the state's public schools rose more than 15 percent between the 1989-90 and 1993-94 school years.
Charles Zecher, head of the foreign language department at New Providence High School and coordinator of a survey last year of selected foreign language programs in the state, said there was also an increasing demand for foreign language instruction at the elementary level.
One of the most innovative language programs in the state can be found at the Peddie School in Hights town. For the last two years, students have been learning foreign languages through the study of subjects like economics, psychology and ecology. This "communicative" approach, called "Content Area Teaching," is based on the theory that students will be more motivated to learn if the subject matter is meaningful and has a clear focus.
While content area teaching is becoming increasingly common at the collegiate level and can be found in some elementary schools, it is still a rarity in secondary schools. The course offerings at Peddie are determined by the interests and expertise of the teachers, and students are graded on mastery of both the language and the subject being taught.
Originally, Peddie gave students about 220 hours of introductory language instruction before they began the study of specific subjects, but now it begins almost immediately.
There is a heavy emphasis on alternative forms of assessment, like exhibitions and presentations. Last year three third-year Spanish students traveled to the World Bank in Washington to defend a paper they had written on the Latin American economy. They presented their views to a panel of economists for an hour and then were grilled with questions, all in Spanish.
"It was nerve-racking," said Andrew Usmiani, one of the students. "They had no facial expressions, and the questions were very hard."
Nevertheless, Andrew found the experience rewarding. "At this point my friends from other schools might be able to name more grocery items in the supermarket, but I can talk about more relevant ideas in life," he said.
Donald Duffy, chairman of second language learning at Peddie, said he had decided upon content area teaching after experimenting unsuccessfully with several other teaching methods. "Conversation would break down immediately because there was no reason for them to communicate," he said.
One difficulty with content area teaching in general is finding teachers who feel competent enough to teach both the foreign language and a separate subject. Mr. Duffy, who holds a degree in economics and taught the economics course, said a workshop he presented at the Newark Academy in Livingston to introduce the concept of content area teaching to representatives of New Jersey's independent schools was greeted with mixed reactions.
"A lot of the teachers were impressed, but they seemed a little scared and said they wouldn't dare try to do it themselves," he said.
Another drawback is the lack of materials. Teachers often have to devise their own curriculums and import books from other countries. Some students complain they can be at a disadvantage compared with those in traditional classes when it comes to tests like the S.A.T. II and its heavy emphasis on grammar.
In an editorial in the Peddie newspaper, Tara Shingle wrote that the study of grammar had been "blatantly missing" and that a better balance between conversation and grammar had to be struck.
Despite all the change occuring in the classroom, a number of educators think that the state and Federal governments should be doing more. Mr. Petri of Millburn points to a North Carolina mandate that foreign language instruction begin in kindergarten and, in Fairfax County, Virginia, to a partial immersion program in French, Spanish, German and Japanese at the elementary school level.
Rene Lavergneau, coordinator of foreign languages for the Hackensack School System, wistfully recalls the 1960's, when the National Defense Education Act provided scholarships for language majors to improve their skills abroad.
Nevertheless, there is a sense that the country is moving out of its isolationism as far as foreign languages are concerned.
As to whether the communicative approach is just another fad and will soon go the way of new math, or grammar-based language instruction for that matter, Deborah Short, an associate division director at the Washington-based Center for Applied Linguistics, said: "This is not just a flash in the pan, like new math. There, researchers said to do this, and teachers implemented it. But here it's very much come from the teachers, and it's growing. Despite America's best efforts, I think we're going to value bilingualism, and this is a great way to achieve it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK); LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (95%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (94%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: VAN TASSEL, PRISCILLA ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



129 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2657 words

HEADLINE: The Education of Robert Rubin

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ROBERT E. RUBIN first heard about Mexico's currency crisis when he was on Christmas vacation in the British Virgin Islands, just weeks before his move from the National Economic Council in the White House to the office of Secretary of the Treasury. His initial instinct, he tells visitors with the self-deprecating half-smile that has become his trademark in Washington, was to let the Mexicans and the market sort it out, and to return to the important business of casting for bonefish in the azure waters of the Caribbean.
"My first reaction was that financial distress in Mexico was a very serious problem," he said the other day. "But other countries have had financial problems and the appropriate adjustments get made." The phone kept ringing, though, with a series of increasingly dire warnings from the undersecretary of the treasury, Lawrence H. Summers, and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, about what could happen next if a currency crisis turned into something far worse. 
 The more the 56-year-old former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs & Company thought about it, the more he became convinced that in Mexico the Administration was faced with the most modern of foreign policy crises: No troops, no nukes, just the potential for global financial apocalypse if Mexico's imminent default on billions of dollars in bonds prompted a pullout from scores of emerging markets for which Mexico was a beacon.
Even the enemy was different: Beyond a recalcitrant new Congress, Mr. Rubin was wrestling several million investors -- participants in pension and mutual funds that have rushed into international markets -- who finally put forth a set of non-negotiable demands and were threatening to suck every peso back home from Mexico and leave it in economic rubble.
"This isn't the old days where there are three rich market manipulators in a back room threatening to pull the pin," Mr. Rubin said. "Now, it's everyone."
Ultimately, it was those threats that forced Mr. Rubin and the White House Chief of Staff, Leon Panetta -- who were sharing a pizza at 11:30 Monday night when they were joined by President Clinton -- to decide that Congress was not about to act on $40 billion in loan guarantees and that markets were not about to forgive.
A few slices later, the three men opted for Plan B: An extraordinary order to use $20 billion in Treasury funds under the President's control to keep Mexico from defaulting on its short-term bonds and to restore investor confidence. However, $20 billion was not enough, so Mr. Summers was dispatched to squeeze another $17.8 billion out of the International Monetary Fund. The tactic so angered many European allies that when they were asked to formally approve the loan on Wednesday six abstained, opening a rare rift within the organization.
Irritating the allies, whose finance ministers he met yesterday in Toronto for the first time as Treasury Secretary, was the least of Mr. Rubin's problems over the last four weeks. Aiding Mexico was a political loser for Mr. Clinton. It was left to Mr. Rubin to tell the President that the markets would no longer wait for Democrats and Republicans to make up their minds, and that the political risk of failing to act could be enormous.
In boom times -- that is, until December -- Mexico was the kind of country that President Clinton regularly hailed as an engine of growth for the new American economy. Exports are the source of millions of new, high-wage jobs, the Administration has told anyone who will listen, and demand from the Big Emerging Markets -- from Brazil to China to Indonesia -- are where America's export-led economic future lies.
It was a positive message, brimming with hope. In the last few weeks, however, before he even had a chance to move into Lloyd Bentsen's old office on the third floor of the Treasury, Mr. Rubin suddenly found himself explaining to Congress about the two-edged realities of a financial world that at times may be a bit too global for its own good.
The first part of the explanation was straightforward: Geography still counts in foreign affairs, and political and social chaos in Mexico would mean trouble on the border: A half million more illegal immigrants, a threat to 700,000 American jobs dependent on exports to Mexico. More difficult was what the soft-spoken Mr. Rubin, choosing his words carefully so as not to trigger the panic he was trying to avoid, called the potential "catalytic impact" of a collapse in the Mexican market.
"THERE is an unique role that Mexico has played in the past five or six years as a prototype of a developing country coming into the modern world," said Mr. Rubin, who unlike his dressed-to-the-nines predecessor often cruises the hallways of the the Treasury in shirtsleeves, the knot of his tie dangling a few inches below his neck. "It is the linchpin, the model. And I don't think any other country plays such a pivotal role."
A massive outflow of investor confidence in Mexico City, he argued, could trigger the same in other economies highly dependent on foreign investment for growth. And that would threaten the reforms, the democratization and the growth to which the United States has linked its own future.
Not all of Mr. Rubin's friends on Wall Street fully subscribe to what he calls this "theory of interconnectedness" -- "if that's a word," he adds. One close ally in the investment banking world, who declined to be named, wondered why Mr. Rubin had gone so far. "This notion that if we don't do this, a global meltdown occurs -- I've never seen a Treasury Secretary take that position. And if it's really true, then we shouldn't have been trying to do this alone. Where were the Germans, where were the Japanese?"
But Mr. Rubin may have been partially vindicated last Monday, when "interconnectedness" surfaced with a vengeance. As investors realized that the initial rescue plan pending in Congress was dead as an armadillo on the Mexican highway, sell orders spread to economies that shared none of Mexico's immediate problems. Poland, of all places, dropped. And when Mr. Clinton took matters into his own hands on Tuesday, markets around the world recovered. By the end of the week Mr. Rubin was being hailed as the market-savvy hero of a White House otherwise incapable of shooting straight. Even the Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, defended the president's action as "courageous," and told carping Republicans to shut up and give thanks they did not have to vote on an aid plan that 80 percent of Americans oppose.
In his first month as Treasury Secretary, Mr. Rubin has worked 20-hour days, grappling with difficult questions: Can the United States afford to be seen as the saviour of any major country whose leaders borrow too much and fail to discipline their own booming economies? Where does the offer stop? In Mexico? In the former Soviet Republics?
"Clearly, there's a line we cannot cross," Mr. Rubin said the other day. "Just don't ask me where it is."
If the ghosts of past Presidents truly haunt the White House, one old Democrat must have been lurking over that Domino's pizza the other night: Grover Cleveland. Even Newt Gingrich has been telling Congressional colleagues the cautionary tale of what happened to poor Grover 102 years ago.
At the time, America was the ultimate emerging market. Mr. Cleveland had barely begun his second term before a panic set in around the world that the United States was about to devalue the dollar. With the Treasury's reserves of gold shrinking, President Cleveland wanted Congress to repeal the law requiring the United States to back its bonds with gold, breaking the artificial linkage between the value of an ounce of gold and the value of the silver coin in which most private transactions were settled.
THE result was Mexico-scale chaos. The silver mines of the West closed. Riots broke out, unemployment soon soared to 20 percent and the newly jobless marched on Washington. Credit collapsed, industry slowed, imports screeched to a halt and once-enthusiastic European investors pulled out of the country. Mr. Cleveland, like the leaders of Mexico over the past month, argued that the country's fundamentals were sound. But it made no difference. Democrats in his own party rebelled, Republicans who controlled Congress after 1894 refused to cooperate. He had to turn to Wall Street -- to J.P. Morgan and August Belmont -- for the credit he needed to keep the country afloat.
A future president, Woodrow Wilson, writing the history of that era, argued that a great revolution had come, but that no one understood it. "All the world," he wrote, "had in fact become at last a single commercial community."
A century later, working from somewhat different and certainly more complex facts, Robert Rubin is making the same case. The combination of his 26-year career at the investment banking house of Goldman Sachs and his low-key style -- he has skillfully turned humility into a powerful weapon -- has given him extraordinary credibility as a mentor on the workings of the new economy. "The problem is that it is a complicated transformation, and very difficult to explain in the public domain," Mr. Rubin said recently. "I've been in on this from the beginning, and I'm still coming to grips with the implications."
THE transformation: Developing nations no longer have to depend on bank lending for their capital -- in part because their needs are now far greater than public or private banks could supply. David D. Hale, the chief economist of Kemper Securities, notes that private capital flows to stock and bond markets in Latin America, Asia and Africa were running at $10 billion a year in 1989, and $60 to $80 billion in the last few years -- with Latin America by far the largest recipient of foreign funds. The capitalization of the stock markets in these emerging economies -- the value of all the listed shares -- was $100 billion a decade ago; it is $2.1 trillion now.
No place was as much a beneficiary of investor enthusiasm as Mexico. Building on -- and overselling -- the country's deregulatory reforms, its democratization and the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexico sold tens of billions of dollars in stock and debt securities to the United States throughout the 1990's. It was gobbled up by emerging market funds and pension funds that had rarely invested abroad before, and were desperate for alternatives to the paltry 3 percent returns available at home. But along the way, Mexico developed an addiction to the capital, financing its long-term debt with the sale of short-term bonds, called tesobonos. They were essentially Government-issued junk bonds, yielding anywhere from 15 to 50 percent.
The Clinton Administration and others quietly warned the country's leaders last year that they were headed for trouble. Mexican officials said they understood the problem, but they did nothing. There was an election on, the leading candidate had just been assassinated, the Chiapas region was still in revolt -- and it was certainly no time to admit economic weakness by devaluing the currency. The outgoing president, Carlos Salinas, was already angling -- with American support -- to become the first head of the new World Trade Organization in Geneva, and he wanted nothing to soil his record of economic reform.
How much of Mexico's financial bungling was known to Mr. Rubin as head of the National Economic Council -- the group Mr. Clinton created to coordinate economic policy among competing agencies, much as the National Security Council does in foreign policy -- is a matter of considerable debate in Washington these days. Republicans, led by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, threatened an investigation.
For his part, Mr. Rubin told reporters recently that the warning signals, while evident, did not suggest the size of the problem on the horizon. "No one I'm aware of saw what was really coming," he said.
Watching how Mr. Rubin handled a hostile Congress over the past month quickly became one of Washington's chief spectator sports, largely because he was constantly being compared to Mr. Bentsen, the master of the art form. The 74-year-old Texan, many believed, would never have permitted the $40 billion loan guarantee program to languish in Congress, where opposition grew daily. Still, it's unclear that Mr. Bentsen's presence would have made a difference.
Until a few weeks ago there was a sense in Washington that Mr. Rubin excelled at being Mr. Inside, and that the glare of scrutiny -- and the sparring with Congress that will intensify when the Administration's budget is submitted this week -- would make him regret seeking the Treasury job.
"He doesn't naturally seek the spotlight, and you get the sense that he dislikes a lot of the public role," said one senior official who has worked with him closely. "At the White House, it never failed: Whenever he was about to leave on a major trip with the President, he would always come by and say 'Do I really have to go?' " Sometimes he didn't, skipping the Asian economic summit in Indonesia in 1994..
Mr. Rubin points out that he was not as reclusive as his Washington reputation suggests. "When I was running the N.E.C., I was on television probably once a week. Maybe it was just shows no one watches." But since the start of the Mexico crisis, he has also become a daily fixture on Capitol Hill, testifying, talking in private to the party caucuses, never showing anger when member after member of the House Banking Committee denounced the $40 billion bailout as a reward to Mr. Rubin's rich friends on Wall Street, who made bad bets on Mexico.
MR. Rubin, who is believed to be worth about $100 million himself, was ready with his response. "I don't give one whit for the investors, and if that's what this was about, we wouldn't be here talking about it" he shot back at one point.
But it was impossible to save Mexico, he said time and again, without also helping those who had sunk their money there. Mr. Rubin could also be enormously patient, as evidenced at one hearing when it became clear that a member of the House Banking Committee, attacking the plan to rescue Mexico, did not understand the difference between a loan guarantee -- essentially co-signing a loan -- and actually lending money to Mexico. Back in his office, he smiled and asked some visitors "Isn't democracy a wonderful thing?"
"This is the part of the job that's going to give him ulcers," one Treasury official said.
But even after the Administration's effort had collapsed, Mr. Rubin was still winning praise. "The problems were not with Rubin, but in the White House and with the Democratic party up here, where there was no discipline on this," said Representative Jim Leach, the Iowa Republican who heads the House Banking Committee and spent two weeks drafting compromise legislation for the ill-fated $40 billion loan-guarantee program. "I think Bob Rubin brought to a very political town a fine sense of the outside world, with a manner that is competent and quiet, without being arrogant. And almost overnight, he has become the pre-eminent cabinet member."
Whether Mr. Rubin continues to impress may depend on whether the Mexico decisions made this week come back to haunt the White House. If the Mexicans fail to reform their now discredited techniques for handling their economy, if the peso's devaluation hurts American imports and workers, or if illegal aliens surge into Texas and California, the president's team, having acted alone, will be blamed alone.
But Mr. Rubin says inaction would be a withdrawal of American participation in emerging markets, backtracking from the world's move toward more open economies and toward reform. "Fixing this now is cheap," he said early in the crisis. "Fixing it later may be very expensive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Rubin, Secretary of the Treasury, on Capitol Hill last month to face a restive Congress over the peso crisis. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mr. Rubin and Secretary of State Warren Christopher brief reporters on a financial crisis (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) with striking similarities to the economic tumult of Grover Cleveland's second presidency. (Associated Press)(pg. 6)
 
Graph: "Developing a Craving for Capital" shows current account balance for eight of the largest Latin economies from 1990 to 1995 and current account surplus or deficit for eight of the largest Latin economies. (Source: Kemper Securities)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (73%); 

STATE: CARIBBEAN SEA (78%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (73%); CARIBBEAN SEA (78%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); LOAN DEFAULTS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) BILL CLINTON (58%); LEON E PANETTA (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



130 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: One Employee Buyout That Actually Worked

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: KAPUSKASING, Ontario

 BODY:
DAVE SIMARD, a 35-year-old worker at the sprawling paper mill here, is feeling flush these days. He has just plowed $6,000 into a new roof on his trim, white-frame, three-bedroom house with forest-green shutters.
"Things are looking up, for sure," says Mr. Simard, a 15-year veteran of the mill. "Otherwise, I certainly wouldn't have undertaken all of this." 
 Mr. Simard is one of 1,200 workers who received up to 5,000 free shares each under an employee buyout four years ago of the mill, which produces giant rolls of newsprint used by the newspaper industry. Those shares are now worth nearly $5 each, and some financial analysts think the price could easily double over the next year or two.
In 1991, few homes were being fixed up in this one-industry town 500 miles north of Toronto.
Back then, recalls Mayor Rene Piche, "For Sale" signs were a fixture in front of many houses. "The town faced a bleak future, if any at all," he says.
Mr. Piche, who himself bought 50,000 shares at $1 each, as part of the community efforts to support the buyout, adds jubilantly: "We never dreamed it would turn out this way."
So far, the company, Spruce Falls Inc., is the story of a successful worker buyout. And with newsprint prices rising -- from $411 a ton to $550 a ton since November 1993, and expected to increase another $125 a ton by summer -- Spruce Falls should continue to prosper.
INDUSTRY analysts see a bright future for Spruce Falls during the next couple of years. Norm Levine, a broker for Merit Investment Corporation in Toronto, expects the company's earnings growth to justify a share price "at least twice present levels in the next 12 to 24 months."
The Spruce Falls case is a "pretty unusual turnaround," says Corey Rosen, director of the National Center for Employee Ownership in Oakland, Calif., who has monitored worker buyouts of troubled companies in the United States and Canada.
For the last two decades, the experience of employee ownership of companies has been decidedly mixed. Sometimes, the companies have benefitted as the new worker-owners try more cooperative management practices, work teams and a sharing of financial information. But a different ownership structure can do little to insulate companies from competition, technological change or shifting markets.
Still, Canada can point to some thriving worker buyouts besides Spruce Falls. Also in Ontario, there has been the rebirth of the big Algoma steel enterprise in the shadow of the International Bridge linking Sault Ste. Marie with northern Michigan, whose worker-owners have seen their shares soar with a surge in automotive steel buying. But Morley Gunderson, director of the Center for Industrial Relations at the University of Toronto, cautions that the acid test will be the next recession -- which, for Spruce Falls, means the next cyclical downturn in newsprint prices.
Mayor Piche's office looks across a bend in the Kapuskasing River, named for the Cree word for "branch of a river," toward the giant smokestacks of the paper mill that employs one out of every 10 of its 10,000 inhabitants.
The worker buyout was a response to the 1990 decision by the Kimberly-Clark Corporation of Dallas, which owned 51 percent of the plant, to get out of newsprint. The maker of Kleenex tissues and Huggies disposable diapers wanted to concentrate on its consumer products.
The New York Times Company, which had a 49-percent stake in the plant, went along with Kimberly-Clark, deciding that the mill's remote location, old technology and high-cost labor practices made it attractive only to new ownership. The capital costs that would have been required to make the mill viable would have run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
In the mid-1920's, New York Times had joined Kimberly-Clark as minority partner in the enterprise, christened Spruce Falls Power and Paper Company, to guarantee a steady supply of newsprint.
FOR decades, at least half of the Spruce Falls daily output went to The New York Times. The New York Times is still a customer of the newly reorganized mill, along with such other newspapers as The Boston Globe, The Buffalo Evening News and The Indianapolis Star and The Detroit Free Press. Power for the mill came from a generating station the two companies built at a falls 50 miles north, harnessing hydroelectricity from the Mattagami River.
For 65 years, the newsprint operation brought steady employment here. But after the owners decided to sell in 1990, no buyer could be found. For about a year, the town feared the mill would either shut or drop as many as 1,000 workers.
"I think we would have become the most modern ghost town in northern Ontario," said Wayne Green, the publisher and general manager of the local weekly newspaper, The Northern Times. "You can't take one industry out of a one-industry town and survive."
An employee purchase group was organized, assisted by another employee-owned company, Tembec, Inc., which makes specialty paper and wood products in Temiscaming, Quebec, about 200 miles to the east.
Under a complex arrangement, the Spruce Falls mill was sold for $1 to the Tembec-led employee group, and the two American owners sold the Mattagami River power station, which had increased tremendously in value over the years, to Ontario Hydro, a provincially-owned utility, for $140 million. The gain from selling the power station more than offset the charges the companies took for walking away from the mill and surrounding timberlands, most of which were leased. In addition, the utility agreed to give the mill's new owners 10 years of free power and some $34 million.
"It's turned out to be a win-win situation for investors, workers, community, sellers and the Ontario government," said F. A. Dottori, president of both Tembec and Spruce Falls.
AS part of the deal, Kimberly-Clark and New York Times made a $60-million loan on preferential terms -- money the new management, under Mr. Dottori, put into mill modernization. Tembec itself put up $25 million, half in equity, to give it 40 percent of the 32 million outstanding shares, and half in loans. Its shares today are worth more than $50 million.
For their part, the workers gave up 20 percent in pension, health and vacation benefits. They also accepted a three-year wage freeze in return for a 52 percent stake in the company and a special profit-sharing program. For 1994, the profit-sharing, at 6 percent of earnings before interest, depreciation and taxes, will work out to between $400and $500 per person, according to Maurice R. Hicks, vice president of corporate development.
"We're at the beginning of a few good years in the newsprint business," said Mr. Hicks, who owns 60,000 shares of Spruce Falls.
Employment at the plant today is 1,050, or only 150 below the level in 1990. Norm Leybourne, president of Communications, Energy and Paper Workers Union Local 256, a director of the company and holder himself of 18,400 shares, says he is amazed by the turn of events over the last four years. "It's like night and day," Mr. Leybourne said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Black spruce logs arrive at the thriving Spruce Falls mill in Kapuskasing, Ontario. (Clyde H. Farnsworth/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGA (TSX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (83%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (50%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (72%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SPRUCE FALLS INC TEMBEC INDUSTRIES INC (83%); ALGOMA STEEL INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPRUCE FALLS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (72%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOP); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); NEWSPRINT (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H RENE PICHE (64%); DAVE SIMARD (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



131 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Women Seeking a Working Agenda

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

 BODY:
IT takes a certain je ne sais quoi to plan a political agenda these days without once muttering the imprecation "middle class tax cut." Yet seldom were heard those monotonous code words late last month when some three dozen representatives of business, government and scholarship gathered for a weekend meeting of the Women's Voices for the Economy Commission.
The task of the privately sponsored commission: to develop what its members are calling a new "women's economic agenda" and use it as an organizing tool, in the process lowering some of the partisan barriers among women's groups. To cut costs, the group met not in Washington, but just outside, in Arlington, Va., an edge-city Oz that resembles late 20th century suburban America, where most voters live, more than does the company town across the river. 
 As most of the meeting's participants would be the first to point out, the term "women's economic agenda" is a slight misnomer. To be sure, though women in professional and managerial jobs are gradually catching up with men, generally women -- and other historically disadvantaged groups -- are still disparately affected by low and inequitable wages and a lack of access to capital.
Consider these factoids from the weekend:
A single mother in a minimum-wage job -- 62 percent of all minimum-wage workers are women -- must pay from half to three-quarters of her salary for licensed day care.
And women are starting new businesses in record numbers, but more than half of them use high-interest credit to get going.
Moreover, the experience of women in the work force has adapted them to merge nicely with the trend toward what is euphemistically called the "mobile worker" -- temporary, contingent and part-time, without benefits and security. "Unfortunately, women are the leading edge of the degradation of the work force," said Heidi Hartmann, an economist who moderated one of the meeting's panels.
Yet, to call women a special interest group, as some would do, is to miss the point that when pollsters ask that all-important question -- Just what is it you people want? -- women express as much concern about the economy as men do. But, unlike men, they tend to nail their concerns to concrete time and money issues like the decline in family income and their difficulties in juggling family and work responsibilities. Like almost all Americans, women are worried about public schools and rising crime, but they often link these quality-of-life issues to a poor economy because financial pressure means they can no longer be at home if they choose to be, tending to their communities.
The women's commission proposes support for the following, from the draft of the agenda available before the meeting:
* Capital to start and expand businesses.
* Job training, continuing education and skill development.
* Equitable pay and benefits for contingent workers.
* Flexible schedules.
* Adequate care for children and the elderly.
"This agenda is central to the lives of the middle class: how to educate kids; how to keep them safe," said Linda Tarr-Whelan, head of the Center for Policy Alternatives, the Washington-based group that sponsored the meeting and established the commission. "When you talk to people, that's what they talk about."
The agenda would encourage, among other things, public-private partnerships in developing child-care centers; support training programs for women who want to work in nontraditional jobs; use government as a broker between contractors and service providers and offer incentives for business to invest in their communities. These are reality-based objectives: in each category, meeting participants could point to successful programs in place in one of their communities.
The agenda is also sensitive to the current realpolitik that no matter how worthy a program, no one who plans to stay in the conversation for long dare speak of appropriating public money for it. The commission's plans emphasize partnerships, incentives, individual contributions and the creative leveraging of available resources.
There is some confidence that this initiative will not simply languish in typical commission fashion. First, the agenda is building on networks already in place nationally. The group included a core of Northeast Corridor stars, like Betty Friedan, who in the latest installment of a long life of activism is conducting an influential salon on economics at the Smithsonian Institution, and Ms. Hartmann, the head of the Institute for Women's Policy Research, who momentarily replaced Barbra Streisand as an object of liberal fascination last year when she won a MacArthur award. And there was representation from the business community, including Barbara Blum of the Adams National Bank in Washington, and Raydean Acevedo, who heads her own consulting firm in McLean, Va.
But most of the women at the commission meeting represented state and local groups from across the country. And the Center for Policy Alternatives invited people beyond the "usual suspects" list from nonprofit and grassroots groups.
Nevertheless, there was a little testiness when two participants expressed exasperation with a drift the discussion took briefly toward some concerns that might have been categorized as traditionally liberal. The group is determined to remain bipartisan. In a world lacking in appetite for either Republicans or Democrats, that is surely the path to influence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Betty Friedan was among the Northeast Corridor stars at the Women's Voices for the Economy meeting. (Kenneth Lambert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S VOICES FOR THE ECONOMY COMMISSION

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S VOICES FOR THE ECONOMY COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: ARLINGTON (VA); UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WOMEN WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); TRENDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY HEIDI HARTMANN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



132 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: A Software Fix May Revitalize the Supercomputer

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
FOR seven years, Burton Smith has been leading a lonely crusade to reinvent the supercomputer. Now, Mr. Smith's moment of truth is nearly at hand -- a moment that promises not only to help determine the future of the Lamborghinis and Ferraris of the computer world but also to affect the Government's role in developing new technology.
To many people in the computer industry, Mr. Smith and his tiny Seattle-based Tera Computer Company have been on a quixotic mission. Custom-made supercomputers have been flirting with a dinosaur's fate. By definition the fastest machines around, increasingly they have not been efficient enough to earn their keep in the face of ever-speedier, far less expensive off-the-shelf computers. At the same time, basic research has suffered as budgets at the country's weapons laboratories have shrunk with the end of the cold war. 
 Indeed, a steady stream of the nation's brightest engineers and computer scientists have broken their swords defending the supercomputer's turf. Companies like Supercomputer Systems, Thinking Machines and Kendall Square Research have all fallen by the wayside trying to give new life to the high-performance end of the business. Supercomputer sales, about $765 million worldwide last year, are expected to shrink to $542 million in 1998, according to Smaby Group Inc., a Minneapolis-based research and consulting company.
But now, the 54-year-old Mr. Smith says he is ready to build his masterpiece. If he is right, by this summer he will have a working prototype of a machine to match the speed of the powerful Cray Research supercomputer, but at one quarter the price. More important, he will have found the Holy Grail that has eluded the best computer designers for more than two decades: building a supercomputer that can be programmed easily, opening up its uses to more types of customers even as it becomes more affordable.
"The industry has been short-sighted," Mr. Smith said. "The market for a general purpose supercomputer will be growing more quickly than anyone believes."
There is just one problem: Tera Computer, which has spent $20 million so far on the project, mostly from Government financing, still lacks the $5 million to $10 million to build the prototype. And that places Mr. Smith and his company in the middle of the resurgent debate over what stake the Government should have in incubating high-tech companies.
Looking for ways to offset proposed tax cuts, Republicans in Congress are preparing for an assault on the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Advanced Technology Program and possibly the Pentagon's Advanced Research and Projects Agency. Both agencies have underwritten research in the private sector; the latter has provided most of Tera's financing over the years.
Just last week, the National Academy of Sciences issued a report calling for the elimination of direct Federal financing of commercial hardware development by computer vendors. Critics of such projects say it amounts to "pork barrel" spending.
But defenders of programs that support small and innovative projects like Tera's argue that for a relatively tiny investment the Government can generate a vast economic payoff that translates into new jobs and technologies that will keep the country ahead of foreign competitors. They point to successful computer companies like Sun Microsystems, Silicon Graphics and Cisco Systems, which all spawned new industries thanks to small Government grants.
Mr. Smith's supporters argue that just such an investment in Tera could revitalize the supercomputer business. (Mr. Smith says he is trying to get financing in the private sector, but others in the industry say that will be difficult since venture capitalists have been scared off by the declining fortunes of supercomputers.)
THE first generation of supercomputers, known as vector processors, and the current generation, so-called massively parallel processing machines, bring lightning speed and brute force to solving big-picture problems -- like predicting the weather -- that require billions of repetitive calculations. But it is harder to program them for general tasks, including most standard business computer problems, that call for many different kinds of calculations.
That is not the case with off-the-shelf machines. Though the cheaper machines are not as fast as supercomputers, they are not that much slower, either. And given the huge price gap, they have increasingly become the machines of choice. The smaller machines, called minisupercomputers, cost between $500,000 and $5 million. Supercomputers, by contrast, run $10 million to $30 million each.
Recognizing the programming problem, Mr. Smith has made software the priority, with the goal of adding enough versatility and efficiency to outstrip the cost advantage of the smaller machines.
Tera has come along just when many in the industry have begun to believe that innovation in computer hardware design is a thing of the past, or will be carried on only by consumer electronics companies for videodisks and gadgets designed to go under the Christmas tree.
"We have Burton Smith to thank for the fact that there is still a debate over the future of high-speed computing," said Kenneth Kennedy, a Rice University computer scientist who is a leading expert on parallel software and a member of Tera's board.
Still, skeptics believe that the era of the lone supercomputer designer -- men like Seymour Cray (first at Cray Research, then Cray Computer), Steve Chen (Supercomputer Systems) and Danny Hillis (Thinking Machines) -- is ending. While there will always be a market for hand-built cars like Ferraris and Lamborghinis, the skeptics say, small supercomputer companies can no longer keep up with the pace of consumer-oriented computer makers, which invest billions of dollars in each design generation.
"BURTON is building big iron and these dinosaurs are stone cold dead," said David Patterson, a computer scientist at the University of California at Berkeley. "Today, if your custom project slows down, the rest of the world doesn't wait for you."
Mr. Patterson was referring to Moore's Law, named for Gordon Moore, a co-founder of the Intel Corporation, who first determined that the number of transistors that can be squeezed onto a computer chip doubles every 18 months, effectively doubling the speed.
But Moore's Law also poses a tremendous problem for computer designers -- one which Mr. Smith believes he's solved. The problem is that memory chips have not been keeping up with processor speed.
As a result -- much like an engine that can't get fuel quickly enough -- the fastest processors are increasingly starved for data, forced to wait on the slower memory chips and unable to get to the next task. The problem, known as memory latency, is exacerbated in massively parallel processing supercomputers, which string together large numbers of chips to do computations in parallel formation.
MR. SMITH's solution is the Multi-Threaded Architecture, or M.T.A., supercomputer. When it is completed, it will use a relatively small number of fast processors -- between 16 and 256. Each processor is able to juggle more than one task by making new requests for data while waiting for an earlier one to be answered.
"What Burton has done is finally proven that the latency problem can be solved," said David Probst, a computer scientist at Concordia University in Montreal. "I suspect that there are a lot of customers waiting impatiently to buy one of his machines."
One of those potential customers is Sid Karin, director of the San Diego Supercomputer Center, one of five national computing laboratories financed by the Government.
"We've been talking to them very seriously and we are hoping to be their first customer," Mr. Karin said. "One of the things that is impressive is Tera's emphasis on software. There are lots of examples of companies littering the shoulders of the information highway who paid attention to hardware and not software."
At the same time, there is no way to prove Mr. Smith's ideas until a prototype is available, said Jack Dongarra, a computer scientist at the Oakridge National Laboratory and one of the nation's leading experts on supercomputing. Companies like Kendall Square also made bold claims about programmability, but failed to live up to their promises of greater speed. "It sounds like a big win, but the verdict is still out," said Mr. Dongarra.
Mr. Smith is no stranger to the risks inherent in the high end of the computer business. A graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Smith taught computer science at the University at Colorado in Denver before working at Denelcor, a Colorado maker of supercomputers in the late 1970's and early 80's. The Denelcor HEP computer -- which had some of the design ideas now found in the Tera machine -- failed in the marketplace competing against machines from Cray Research.
After leaving Denelcor, Mr. Smith spent several years at the Supercomputing Research Center, a Government laboratory in Lanham, Md., with close ties to the secretive National Security Agency.
Now he is trying again from his small laboratory in Seattle. Compared with the high-profile efforts of Mr. Cray and Mr. Chen, who have each been backed by hundreds of millions of dollars, Mr. Smith's Tera, with its complement of 54 employees, is truly computer-design-on-a-shoestring.
Despite that, by concentrating on software rather than hardware, Mr. Smith may succeed where others have failed. And if he does, he will upset the applecart of the cheaper-is-faster crowd who believe that the industry will increasingly be dominated by personal computer and consumer electronics companies.
"You wouldn't think that a startup in the supercomputer game would be given much chance today," said Gary Smaby, a computer industry consultant at the Smaby Group. But, he added, Tera's scaled-down approach, which Mr. Smith thinks will guarantee financial success with even only a few customers, "might just permit them to make it through the turmoil."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Burton Smith, Tera Computer's founder, says general purpose supercomputers still have a role to play. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "Doing Two Things (or More) at Once" shows the traditional processor and Tera's Multi-Threaded processor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CRAY (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TERA COMPUTER CO CRAY INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TERA COMPUTER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; FEDERAL AID (US) SUPERCOMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (75%); BUDGETS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); COLD WAR (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; SMITH, BURTON BURTON SMITH (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



133 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
A Headlong Crawl Toward Capitalism

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis 

 BODY:
"I HOPE we can avoid a Mexico-type collapse," Hungary's reformist-minded former Finance Minister, Laszlo Bekesi, said last week after being dismissed in a battle over plans to accelerate the privatization of state-owned companies and complete the country's transition to a market economy by 1998.
His warning, as well as his fall from grace, are the latest signs that five years after the countries of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union began their march toward capitalism, several of the most important are stumbling just as their economic prospects start to improve. 
 After suffering several years of sharp contraction, Poland clocked the highest economic growth rate in all of Europe last year at 4.5 percent, while Hungary and the Czech Republic finally made it into positive figures. Although Russia saw its economy shrink by another 12 percent in 1994, industrial output stopped falling last summer and consumption is rising.
Yet the undoubted triumph of Russia's transition bid so far -- the privatization of some 14,000 state enterprises -- is being challenged by hardliners at the same time the bill for the Chechnya war imperils the Government's economic stabilization drive.
Meanwhile, Hungary and Poland are wavering on privatization, and while the Czech Republic has sold off 90 percent of its economy, this may not be enough to make efficient the companies that were sold.
"The more favorable economic outlook for 1995 creates the illusion that they have done all they need to do," said Lado Gurgenidze of the Institute for East-West Studies in New York. Andrezej Rapaczynski who directs a study project on central European privatization at Columbia University, noted, except for the Czech Republic, privatization is stymied."
In Moscow, President Boris N. Yeltsin has replaced Vladimir Polevanov as privatization minister after he had called for the " renationalisation" of strategic industries falling under foreign control.
But signs of a nationalistic backlash within the Russian Government against foreign investors are still clearly visible.
Last month, the conservative daily newspaper Rabochaya Tribuna published documents, reportedly leaked by the security services, warning that Western investors want to "guarantee the technological backwardness of Russia." And the Central Bank has since announced tighter licensing requirements for foreign investments.
Meanwhile, Russia is trying to convince a skeptical International Monetary Fund that it deserves a $13 billion loan to help stabilize the ruble, despite recurring inflation and an incalculable budget deficit swollen by the cost of an unpopular civil war.
Like Russia, the Czech Republic is privatizing its economy by doling out vouchers to its citizens that entitle them to bid for shares. After two major selling rounds, some 90 percent of the economy is reckoned to be in private hands.
Most citizens entrusted their shares to mutual funds run by banks. But these conservative banks are more likely to run companies they buy with an eye to avoiding "costly bankruptcies and politically damaging increases in unemployment rather than achieving efficient outcomes,"John C. Coffee of Columbia University argued in a recent study of Czech privatization.
Although Hungary appeared the most market-oriented Eastern European country under Communism, the World Bank reckons no more than 40 percent of its state enterprises have been privatized so far, and the process has slowed markedly since the former Communists came back to power in last year's elections.
Before Mr. Bekesi was forced out as Finance Minister, the country's respected privatization chief, Ferenc Bartha, had been dismissed along with the Central Bank governor. The Government has also rattled foreign investors further by recently canceling the high profile sale of the HungarHotels chain to American General Hospitality for $57.5 million.
In Poland, where the ex-Communists are also back in power, the Government plans to sell 480 big enterprises to privatization funds that will distribute shares to the public, but appears in no hurry to do so. And although retail trade is now mainly private, the state retains ownership of most stores, which are only leased to entrepreneurs.
Not surprisingly, these countries' fledgling stock markets have reacted adversely to such public second thoughts about the virtues of capitalism after an initial euphoria when fortunes were easy to make.
The Russian market index, compiled by Credit Suisse First Boston, which opened at 100 on Dec. 1 1993, had climbed to 1,706 by Sept. 15, 1994, but was down to 654 last week.
According to Salomon Brothers, the Polish index rose from 1,000 in late 1992 to 12,439 a year later but stood at 6,153 last week. In Hungary the market index had risen from 826 at the end of 1993 to 1,430 a year later but is now back at 1,159, while the Czech index peaked at 1,224 last March before declining to 485 last week.
Caveat emptor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EAST EUROPE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMPTION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



134 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 40; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: No Cheers for Greenspan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Alan Greenspan does not deserve the accolades Floyd Norris heaped on him for having created the speculative bubble the Fed is now trying to deflate without causing an economic crash landing ("Man of the Year: High-Wire Artist Alan Greenspan," Market Watch, Jan. 1). 
 Mr. Norris implies that the steep yield curve Mr. Greenspan engineered in the early 1990's saved the American banking system. Banks, however, can make money regardless of the slope of the yield curve. The decline in long-term rates, for which the Fed does not deserve much credit, helped to revive the economy and restore value to troubled loans burdening some, but not all, banks.
When the Fed signaled early last year that it was time for short-term rates to rise, it did not understand how many time bombs, like the one in Orange County, Calif., the steep yield curve had planted in private- and public-sector balance sheets.
Contrary to Mr. Norris's suggestion, it was not asking too much that the Fed move sooner than it did. In fact, its inaction in 1993 was a major blunder. Summaries of Federal Open Market Committee meetings for the second half of 1993 clearly indicate that the Fed board had failed to appreciate the extent to which low short-term rates and the steep yield curve were beginning to overstimulate the economy.
Worse, Mr. Greenspan's Fed ignored strong signals from the money markets in the fall of 1993 that short-term rates should begin rising. The yield in the secondary markets on the three-month Treasury bill rose almost 25 basis points from late September to late November.
More dramatically, rates on one-month borrowings jumped more than 30 basis points in the first week of December. The Fed immediately signaled its displeasure by driving the easily manipulated Federal funds rate noticeably below its then target rate of 3 percent until short-term rates began drifting back down.
The costly Greenspan bubble reflects the Federal Reserve chairman's misreading of the economic forces at work in the early 1990's. The time has come to encourage the financial markets to set interest rates, without any Fed guidance.
BERT ELY Alexandria, Va., Jan. 5
The writer is principal of Ely & Company, consultants on public policy issues affecting financial institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT YIELD CURVE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WRITERS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



135 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Gay Dollars on the Road

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
FRED KOHN remembers a time not so long ago when he could not say "gay" at Eastern Airlines to describe the tours he discreetly booked for groups of homosexual travelers.
"We would push those packages through the airlines quietly," said Mr. Kohn, a former sales representative. "We would call the annual trip of gay lawyers going to Puerto Rico the 'San Juan' group, and only those who needed to know, knew." 
 Up to the mid-1980's, gay and lesbian travelers had recourse only to a small network of gay travel agents, or gay airline employees like Mr. Kohn, who would unofficially help them find welcoming hotels and vacation spots. Airlines, booking agents and cruise ships didn't want to court such customers openly, for fear of being ostracized by advertisers and mainstream travelers.
But increasingly, the big companies are seeing dollar signs instead of stigma. And gay travel agencies like Islanders Kennedy, owned by Mr. Kohn and Shelley Shusteroff, are being forced to find ways to compete.
Surveys by gay publications and the U.S. Census Bureau show that gay people have a collective $514 billion in yearly expendable income and take vacations more than any other single demographic group, mainstream travel executives are aggressively going after their travel dollars. (As have some companies that get bookings from big travel agencies. Recently Avis Inc. changed its "domestic partnership" rule to allow same-sex couples to rent cars without paying an additional driver's fee.)
"It's a great marketing niche," said Rick Cirillo, who works in a newly created position at American Airlines: national sales manager for the gay and lesbian community. "We've already booked $15 million worth of potential revenue for '95-'96."
The Cunard Line is also appealing to gay travelers. And these days anyone can go into a Liberty Travel agency and ask for a gay package -- like an RSVP Travel Productions Gay Vacation (cruises) or Atlantis at Club Med (a gays-only week at a club resort) or Olivia (women-only cruises).
The competition, say some industry insiders, ends up benefiting the gay customers enormously. "Gay and lesbian individuals have many more choices in a rapidly expanding industry," said David Alport, vice president of the International Gay Travel Association.
But it's also driving the city's handful of gay travel businesses, like Islanders Kennedy, to try out different strategies.
"We're going to revive the gay travel club concept," Mr. Kohn said. "We're going to have newsletters, theater parties, Fourth of July cruises, and then we're going to out-advertise everyone else." The agency advertises in three gay publications -- POZ, 10 Percent, and Out.
 IN a way, Mr. Kohn's business partnership with Ms. Shusteroff was a response to the competition.
In 1984, after 20 years with Eastern, Mr. Kohn borrowed money to buy out Kennedy Travel, in Floral Park, Queens. "I immediately turned it into a gay travel business," he said. With just word-of-mouth advertising, business boomed. (He declines to discuss revenues; the office still operates as a branch of Islanders Kennedy with a clientele that is about 40 percent gay.)
At about the same time, Ms. Shusteroff was running Islanders Travel, a bus service to Fire Island. As her Greenwich Village business became more popular, Ms. Shusteroff offered trips around the country, cruises and theater parties. Her mailing list of gay men in New York City became one of the most comprehensive in the industry. In November, Mr. Kohn and Ms. Shusteroff, business acquaintances for years, opened Islanders Kennedy Travel, at 183 West 10th Street on the corner of Seventh Avenue South -- the heart of Greenwich Village.
Ms. Shusteroff found what she calls this "perfect location" last summer. "I saw that 'Ladies Boutique,' this store run by a drag queen, was having an inventory sale," she recalled. A sign, she says, read Everything Must Go, and "I grabbed the space."
"It made complete economic sense," said Mr. Kohn. "We now have more buying power and less advertising cost."
A rainbow flag, a symbol of gay pride, hangs over the wood-paneled storefront to announce that the business is gay friendly, although Mr. Kohn says that about 5 percent of his customers are not gay.
What Islanders Kennedy offers, Ms. Shusteroff says, is something that still eludes mainstream agencies: an anxiety-free atmosphere. Many gay customers, she says, "aren't comfortable walking into the local small-town travel agency." Plenty of her own customers still seek privacy, she says, pointing to a list of clients from across the country who want the agency's brochures sent to post office boxes.
Longtime customers like Robert Legere, a Manhattan bridal designer who has tried the big companies, praise Islanders Kennedy's approach. With gay agencies, "you don't get any attitude," he said. And, he added, "I know I'll get a vacation where I'll be in my element; if I hold hands with my lover on the beach, it will be a place that people won't stare."
Ultimately, that kind of confidence may help the gay travel boutiques regain their marketing edge. "There's a big difference between data and knowledge," said David Love, a spokesman for American Society of Travel Agents, a trade group with 25,000 members in 130 countries. "Many mainstreams may have the packages, but they don't know the products firsthand."
Islanders Kennedy remains ahead of mainstream companies in booking tours for RSVP, a Minneapolis-based gay travel company that works with 8,000 major agencies nationwide.
RSVP's Sheridan Square billboard, showing male couples vacationing at the beach, has become a Village landmark. Ms. Shusteroff says she wants the company to paint an arrow on the billboard pointing around the corner "right towards us."
"Shelley only calls me every three days about it," said Charlie Rounds, RSVP's sales director. "We may just give them that arrow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: RSVP's gay-gateway ad on Sheridan Square. Gay travel shops like Islanders Kennedy, nearby, book many of the tours. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (52%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (56%); 

COMPANY: ISLANDERS KENNEDY TRAVEL AVIS INC (67%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (52%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISLANDERS KENNEDY TRAVEL NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (56%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOMOSEXUALITY; TRAVEL AGENCIES AND AGENTS TRAVEL AGENTS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CRUISES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); RESORTS (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (74%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); SALES MANAGEMENT (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); MARRIAGE (64%); CENSUS (54%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P; KOHN, FRED; SHUSTEROFF, SHELLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



136 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE;
Nursing Home Loses a Round On Extension

BYLINE: By JENNIFER KINGSON BLOOM 

 BODY:
For two years now, neighbors of the Amsterdam Nursing Home on 112th Street and Amsterdam Avenue have been fighting a losing battle to stop the home from building a 13-story extension.
Residents say the construction would destroy the neighborhood's historic feel, deprive them of open space and spoil the view from the Cathedral of St. John the Divine across the street. 
 The neighbors have lost repeatedly in the courts, been turned away by the City Council and brushed aside by Government agencies.
Now they say they have won a round.
In December, after prodding by the Morningside Heights Residents' Association, the state Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation ruled that the addition would have an "adverse effect" on the area. This means that the Federal Advisory Council on Historic Preservation will review the project's impact, with local input.
"So far, we've thrown one punch," said Robert E. Roistacher, the residents' association's president.
Mr. Roistacher has waged much of this battle singlehandedly, filing suits in state court and sending reams of documents to agencies. Others in the neighborhood, chiefly those living farther from the site, support the expansion as a boon to elderly residents.
The expansion would add 106 beds to the 303-bed home and an additional 68,000 square feet -- almost doubling the size of the building.
The nursing home's operators minimize the impact of the "adverse effect" ruling and predict that construction will begin this summer, even though two other approvals are pending: one from the Federal Housing and Urban Development agency that must insure the $32 million project, and one from the New York State Dormitory Authority, which would issue the bonds to finance it.
James Davis, the nursing home's executive director, says he has tried to placate opponents by revising plans: The 120-year-old Croton Aqueduct Gatehouse, for instance, is now to be saved and renovated into an adult day center. But plans still involve destroying a 150-year-old garden on Amsterdam Avenue.
Mr. Davis says that Amsterdam Nursing may not survive if the project is thwarted, because the home depleted its reserve fund in spending $2 million to develop plans, including $300,000 for legal fees.
Mr. Roistacher's group has appealed to Community Board 9, which passed a committee resolution asking for a role in the Federal review. On Feb. 16, the board will vote on the resolution. J.K.B.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Davis, with model of extension, on the nursing-home roof. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYS); AMSTERDAM NURSING HOME CORP AMSTERDAM NURSING (70%); ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYS); AMSTERDAM NURSING HOME CORP ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MORNINGSIDE HEIGHTS (NYC); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES; CATHEDRAL OF ST JOHN THE DIVINE (NYC) NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); STATE PARKS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AGING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ADULT DAY CARE (66%); 

PERSON: JIM DAVIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



137 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN;
Progress and Setbacks for a Downtown in Search of a Vision

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
As the focus of a sweeping vision of economic revival, Downtown Brooklyn has never quite reached the goals set for it in the 1980's when planners and developers saw a hotel, two office towers, a $1 billion high-technology office and academic complex and a 24-acre office, retail and housing center in its future.
To be sure, progress has been made. Metrotech, the 10-block office and academic center -- a downtown unto itself -- is nearing completion and full occupancy. The Pierrepont Plaza and Livingston Plaza office towers are built and fully occupied, and construction has begun on the first phases of Atlantic Center, the retail and housing complex. 
 Atlantic Center's developer, Bruce Ratner, said on Friday that he and Caldor's have reached a deal for a branch of the discount department store to become the anchor tenant. Caldor's is to replace Bradlees, which withdrew in November.
But a series of setbacks has cast attention on the strength of the comeback, the most serious blow coming with the announcement last month of the loss of 900 A.& S. headquarters jobs. Atlantic Center has been significantly scaled back by the city's decision to shelve the renovation of the decrepit Long Island Rail Road Terminal.
Adding to the anxiety among some is Mayor Giuliani's proposal for tax breaks to help the ailing Financial District across the Brooklyn Bridge.
"We have run into a bit of a slowdown in the 90's," said Robert B. Catell, president of Brooklyn Union Gas Company, which moved to Metrotech from nearby.
Still, not all is gloomy. In a few months, Metrotech will get its next major tenant, the nerve center for the city's new, enhanced 911 emergency system. Other tenants include Bear Stearns, the Internal Revenue Service and Nynex. Construction has started on Atlantic Center's 378 attached homes, for families earning up to $53,000 a year, and 800,000 square feet of retail space. And concern over Fulton Mall's future has eased with the announcement that the A.& S. store will stay as anchor tenant, refurbished as a Macy's.
The City Planning Commission chairman, Joseph Rose, says Brooklyn will be helped by the Giuliani administration's tax breaks for the Financial District in Manhattan because smaller companies and back-office operations of larger firms will be attracted to Brooklyn's cheaper space.
The 1980's boom on Wall Street spawned Brooklyn's current revival, Mr. Rose said, a renaissance that has added 25,000 jobs, and several million square feet of new, leased office space. Real-estate experts are pleased since this was accomplished during the recession.
Where does Downtown Brooklyn go from here? The biggest question mark continues to be the Renaissance Plaza hotel and office complex, a major component of the original picture that has never been filled in. It has suffered years of delay, mostly because of the failure of the developer, Joshua Muss, to win financing. Under growing pressure from city officials, Mr. Muss again says he is near a deal.
The expansion of local, state and Federal courts are in various stages of planning.
The development that has reshaped the Downtown Brooklyn skyline has raised other problems: how to connect the area's fragmented components and cope with its increasingly clogged streets. Can the benefits of the revival extend to nearby neighborhoods, creating more jobs for residents?
The Regional Plan Association, whose 1983 report served as the blueprint for the current development, is assessing the change and helping to map the area's future.
"You've got the makings of an extraordinary downtown," said Jeffrey L. Raven, who is managing the study, "but right now it's a place in search of a cohesive vision."
Some hopeful strategies are emerging. New signs will point the way to local places of interest and banners are being installed to enhance Downtown's identity. After offices and stores close for the day, much of the district is deserted so another goal is to promote night life and increase street safety.
Officials are also considering a shuttle bus to cut down on cars and move workers and shoppers more efficiently. "If you have a transit loop for commuters to stay and shop and play here," said City Councilman Kenneth K. Fisher, "you would see a thousand flowers bloom." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Map of downtown Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (66%); NG (LSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (66%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; METROTECH CENTER (BROOKLYN) DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); TRENDS (66%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE RUDY GIULIANI (50%); ROBERT B CATELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



138 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BAYCHESTER/CO-OP CITY;
After Years of Rising Vacancies, Malls at Co-op City Bounce Back

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Last spring, Giulio Divito looked around the Dreiser Loop mall in Co-op City and saw five vacant stores. Undeterred, Mr. Divito, who owns a pizzeria and deli inside the mall, decided to get into a third business in the mall, a chicken rotisserie outlet. After spending $310,000 to renovate a store once occupied by a kosher deli, he recently opened N.Y. BBQ.
Mr. Divito did not foresee that Co-op City would rebound rapidly from years of rising vacancies and that its three shopping malls would be fully occupied. "When that happened," he said, "I felt, boy, I was a smart guy. But I was just a lucky guy." 
 Lucky or smart, Mr. Divito is benefiting from what many consider the rebirth of Co-op City, the largest cooperative housing complex in the United States. Two years ago, roughly 10 percent of Co-op City's 15,372 apartments were vacant. Today, only 560 apartments are vacant, said Alan Brenner, the general manager of Riverbay Corporation, which owns and runs the complex.
Not surprisingly, the rising number of residents and consumers has drawn businesses back to Co-op City's three shopping malls, on Dreiser Loop, Bartow Avenue and Einstein Loop. As of Feb. 1, all commercial space at the three malls was rented or scheduled to be occupied, Mr. Brenner said.
Residential vacancies have fallen mainly because Riverbay dropped the price per room in each apartment to $1,750 from $2,832. But rents on commercial space did not change.
"The whole economy here is doing better," Mr. Brenner said, explaining that Co-op City's malls are thriving despite the continuing growth of Bay Plaza, a giant shopping mall adjacent to Co-op City.
Built in the late 1960's and early 1970's, Co-op City is a middle-income housing project with its own stores, supermarkets, banks and schools. Most original residents were Jewish, Italian and Irish. Over the years, many retired to warmer climates or died, replaced by a growing Hispanic and black population. More recently, many Russian Jewish families have settled here. The shifting population is reflected in the diversity of restaurants in the malls.
Iris Baez, president of the resident board of directors, said that the stores that opened most recently -- including a florist, a discount store, a nutritionist, an H & R Block tax service -- have also diversified the malls' businesses.
In Dreiser Mall, for example, two of the first tenants were an office of H.I.P., the health-maintenance organization, and a rehabilitation center.
"I thought we were becoming an extension of a hospital," Ms. Baez said. "Now, it's a lot livelier here. You don't have to be sick to come here." N.O.

GRAPHIC: Map of Co-Op City

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (69%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (51%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RIVERBAY CORP (69%); H&R BLOCK TAX SERVICES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CO-OP CITY (BRONX, NYC); RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIO DIVITO (90%); ALAN BRENNER (77%); IRIS BAEZ (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



139 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:

HARLEM
Changing the Image Even Among the Locals
"So many New Yorkers have the same feelings that out-of-towners have about Harlem -- they're afraid to go," said Lynn Brooks, executive director of the Big Apple Greeter. "They think it's a terrifying den of iniquity." The nonprofit agency, which uses more than 600 volunteers to show visitors New York and its neighborhoods, is working to change this image. 
 The problem is that many of the volunteers have never been to Harlem either.
On Saturday the volunteers and anyone else who would like to join in are invited to spend an afternoon exploring the area; one highlight will be a tour of the Apollo Theater.
Afterward, Sam Mattingly-Wilford of the Harlem Urban Development Corporation will speak about Harlem's economics the importance of tourism and Phil Dante, a photographer, will show slides at the Window's Cafe in the State Office Building on 163 West 125th Street.
Meet at the Apollo, 253 West 125th Street, between Adam Clayton Powell Jr. and Frederick Douglass Boulevards; Saturday, Feb. 11, 2 P.M.; free. Reservations must be made in advance; (212) 669-2364.
 
PROSPECT HEIGHTS
The English Father Of the Hudson River School
A traveling exhibition of 60 Thomas Cole paintings, organized by the National Museum of American Art in Washington, D. C., is making its final stop at The Brooklyn Museum.
The artist, who was born in 1801 in Lancashire, England, lived on Greenwich Street in the Village and spent weekends in Catskill, N.Y. Much of his subject matter was drawn from the Hudson Highlands and the Adirondack mountains. "He is considered the father of the Hudson River School," said Linda S. Ferber, chief curator at The Brooklyn Museum.
The Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Washington Avenue; museum hours: 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Wednesday through Sunday; $4, $2 students, free for children under 12; (718) 638-5000.
 
LITTLE ITALY
State of Siege: A Sarajevo Exhibit
Five architects from Sarajevo spent a year taking photographs of the buildings in their war-torn community. The results are on display at the Storefront of Art and Architecture, a not-for-profit group that promotes innovative architectural ideas about social, political and environmental problems
The exhibit is meant to be "a constructive response to the state of emergency in Sarajevo," said Shirin Neshat, the co-director of the Storefront. "It is through these photos that ideas and strategies for rebuilding can be generated."
There will also be a symposium on Saturday, with panel discussions and film footage of the siege of Sarajevo.
Storefront of Art and Architecture, 97 Kenmare Street, at Lafayette, free; symposium, Saturday, Feb. 11, 11:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Dia Center for the Arts, 155 Mercer Street at the corner of Prince Street; $15, $10 for students; (212) 431-5795.
 
ALSO AROUND TOWN
 
MUSICIANS' ACCORD An evening with pianists Sara Laimon and Amy Rubin. Contemporary piano music by composers who have experimented with rhythm; works by three contemporary African composers: Akin Euba of Nigeria, Gamal Abdel-Rahim of Egypt, and J. H. K. Nketia of Ghana; Saturday, Feb. 11, 8 P.M.; Renee Weiler Concert Hall at Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, west of Seventh Avenue; $12; (201) 543-9446.
JAPAN SOCIETY Creative Juncture: The Shakuhachi and Contemporary Music; Katsuya Yokoyama, a master of the shakuhachi, or Japanese flute, will introduce two commissioned works by American composers Ned Rothenberg and Richard Teitelbaum. The Japan Society, Lila Acheson Wallace Auditorium, 333 East 47th Street; Friday, Feb. 10, 8 P.M.; (212) 715-1265. MONIQUE P. YAZIGI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS (58%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (54%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (54%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); PAINTING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); CITIES (68%); MOUNTAINS (63%); 

PERSON: TOM COLE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



140 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
How the Federal Reserve Drops Hints

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IN voting Wednesday to raise interest rates for the seventh time in a year, the Federal Reserve couched the justification in its usual language -- fear of rising wages and rising inflation. But there was another dynamic also in play that in a way preordained the rate increase days before it happened.
 A dialogue developed in January between the Fed's policymakers and the bond market, the latter being a collection of people who trade or manage or own trillions of dollars in Government bonds and other securities. These securities depend for their value on interest rates. So naturally, the bond market has strong views about which way rates should be moving -- lately up, thank you. 
 But January was unusual. The bond market people were unsure, for once, what they wanted rates to do. For more than a year, they had been beating the drums for higher rates to slow the economy and hold down inflation, which chips away at the value of their bonds. Then in January, tentative signs of a slowing economy finally appeared. And suddenly the bond people wondered whether they should switch horses and bet for a while on lower or unchanged rates. They favored a slowdown, but they did not want to be blamed for a recession.
 So a strange, indirect dialogue got started. Many of the members of the Fed's policymaking committee -- 19 people who can change rates at their periodic meetings -- made speeches or gave interviews in which they dropped loud, encoded hints that a rate increase was coming. And the bond people answered in the language that they speak, betting their bonds not on the likelihood of falling or unchanged rates but on the near certainty of another increase.
 "We had been running in circles," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston, a bond house. "They were trying to figure out what the bond market was thinking and the bond market was trying to figure out what the Fed was thinking."

 
 
Different Goals
 In this ritualistic dialogue, which everyone pretends is not happening, the reason for the Fed's existence is sometimes overlooked. Aside from fighting inflation, the Fed's mission, specified by Congress, is to keep the economy growing and Americans employed. That goal can get lost in any dialogue with the bond market, which puts slowing the economy to fight inflation ahead of putting the unemployed to work.
 "The market is congratulating the Fed for its anti-inflation stance," said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company on Friday, referring to trading late last week in which bond values rose. "Today, the unemployment rate shot up to 5.7 percent -- from 5.4 percent in December -- and that added further credibility to the view that the economy is moderating."
 Whether by design or by accident, the Fed went to great pains to advertise the coming increase in the various rates that it either controls. These in turn influenceother rates, among them interest charged on mortgages and car loans. One policymaker after another made the same basic point: The robust economic expansion is producing labor shortages, evident in the low unemployment rate. That inevitably means higher wages as employers bid for scarce workers. And since wages figure prominently in the cost of most products, rising wages inevitably force companies to cover the cost by raising prices.
"The current unemployment rate is comparable to the average of the late 1980's, when wages and prices accelerated appreciably," Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, told a Congressional committee.
 Never mind that neither rising wages nor rising prices have shown up yet in Government data. They will, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues suggested in their public declarations. They did rise in 1988 and 1989, when the unemployment rate was similarly low. And the economy has not changed that much.
 Even Alan S. Blinder, the vice chairman, and Janet L. Yellen, a governor, offered this view in mid-January. "Whatever the danger was two months ago, it looks bigger now," Mr. Blinder said about inflation. That statement, in an interview, really got the point across to the bond market. Mr. Blinder and Ms. Yellen, being President Clinton's only appointees at the Federal Reserve, were the two people most likely to speak out against a rate increase, and they did not.

 
 
Clues in the Dialogue
 So the Fed raised rates on Wednesday -- specifically to 6 percent from 5.5 percent for loans that banks make to one another and that the Fed makes directly to banks -- and the bond market gave its blessing. That raises a question: Should the dialogue be restricted to the Fed and the bond market, because they have the power? (Most of last year, for example, the bond market kept pushing up rates more than the Fed, which it considered too timid.)
 Or should this dialogue include others? Any number of executives have tried to sway the two principals by declaring that the economy has changed. They can't make price increases stick as they could in the late 1980's, they say. So they cut costs, often through layoffs, and when the Fed or the bond market, or both, slow the economy, that only adds to the cost cutting and layoffs.
 Neither the Fed nor the bond market seem to take notice of this clamoring. Already their dialogue has moved into the next phase: what to do next about rates. "Despite tentative signs of some moderation in growth, economic activity has continued to advance at a substantial pace," the Fed said in a statement on Wednesday.
 That sounds like the beginnings of another rate increase, which pleases the bond market. "The markets always have the final say," Mr. Roach said. "And this time the Fed has done a good job in reaching a sound conclusion with us."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Steps Right Up" A year's worth of the Federal funds rate, the rate that banks charge other banks for overnight loans. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN S BLINDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



141 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word / Advice for Republicans;
Attention! All Sales Reps For the Contract With America!

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE civics books would tell you that the election is over and Congress and the White House are now about the business of governing. But the apparatus of the campaign has not withered away. Witness the memorandum that came into the hands of a Democratic strategist (who insisted on anonymity) and was made available to The New York Times last week.
 The "research executive summary" was written by Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster who worked on his party's Contract With America and was now advising Congressional Republicans on the coming struggle over the budget. Mr. Luntz, on the basis of polling and focus groups, talks about how to talk about the issue. Poll-driven strategy memos like this are not unusual these days in the increasingly campaign-like struggles over major legislation. But they rarely come into public view. 
 Here are excerpts, with original typographical emphases. ROBIN TONER
 
To: The Republican Conference
From: Frank Luntz
Re: Communication Strategy for the Upcoming Budget Battle
Date: Jan. 9, 1995
 
INTRODUCTION
 "The most important reason to eliminate the Federal deficit and balance the budget? For the future of American generations, for the children."
 -- budget survey respondent
 "The Government in incredibly inefficient. It's like a bad charity that gives more to administration than to the people it's supposed to benefit."
 -- focus group participant
 "You give me a sign that you can spend money responsibly, and I'll give you every penny of my taxes without even flinching."
 -- focus group participant
 Debt. Welfare. Bureaucracy. Taxes. Spending. In your hands over the next six months is nothing less than the chance to transform America's perceptions of the G.O.P. and Congress and, more importantly, to rebuild the nation's expectations for the 21st century. Carpe Diem.
 Since the election, we've conducted two national surveys and two focus groups to discuss budget and spending issues with real Americans. If a single conclusion can be drawn, it is this: if we communicate our VISION AND POLICIES effectively, we will survive and prosper as a party and as a political movement. But if we forget the future and surrender our language to the Democrats (as we did in 1982 and 1986), our reign will be short indeed.
 . . .
 Your challenge is to create "The New America," the post-welfare state vision as powerful to Americans as the New Deal was 60 years ago. This is a lofty goal, of course. And it will take tremendous precision and repetition to achieve. But only then -- when you've described an irresistible future to the American public -- will the nation support you and your agenda unconditionally.
 . . .
 
THE PERCEPTUAL ENVIRONMENT
 Before moving into recommendations, it is important for you to understand the perceptual environment you face:
 . . .
 By an overwhelming 20-point margin, voters believe Republicans are more likely to balance the budget than the Democrats -- but you need to understand the whole picture.
 You are already seen as "conservative" and "anti-government" -- two important strengths in the budget arena. The Democrats are tagged as "big government liberals," a fatal weakness. But a number of Americans (even those who voted G.O.P. for the first time this year) believe Republicans are "mean" and "uncaring." As one woman not-so-delicately put it, "The Republicans don't give a damn about the average person." She was not alone. A male colleague added, "The Republicans might care about our money, but they definitely don't care about us." Thus, to an important segment of the population, you are more likely to achieve the right objective (a balanced budget) but for the wrong reasons.
 . . .
 Remember that many Americans perceive the key challenges ahead in moral terms rather than economic terms -- a reality the Democrats still don't fully understand.
 . . . Talk about the challenges of irresponsible debt, runaway spending, destructive welfare and an anti-saving tax code in moral -- as well as economic -- terms. American believes Washington isn't just irresponsible but that it is also fostering all the wrong values in our society.
 
 
STRATEGY
 "If we all ran our personal finances like the Government, we'd all be bankrupt."
 -- focus group participant
 The following are some of the more important lessons learned from the two focus group discussions and the budget-related polling. . . .
 The moral force for balancing the budget must be stronger than the pseudo-moralists who will decry the specific budget cuts. Our enemies are already gathering their stones. The New York Times has taken the lead, running two full pages of pictures of homeless people sifting through dumpsters for food.
 . . .
 Individual programs have friends. Bureaucracies and bureaucrats don't. Therefore, focus the general rhetorical attack on the "Washington bureaucracy."
 . . .
 Both focus groups (even though they included six individuals employed in education) accepted the elimination of the Department of Education, but student loans were a completely different matter. "It's just a question of whether you want money going to programs, or money going to people," said one teacher. The N.E.A., N.E.H. and C.P.B. will be even less difficult, as long as museums aren't forced to close. The communications lesson: be ready with assurances that any "truly important" program will be maintained even while entire departments are being eliminated.
 . . .
 Nothing tells America more about your priorities than the sequence of your actions. The media are watching closely to see what comes first. . . . It would be a serious communications mistake to implement a capital gains tax cut ("for the rich") now while only phasing the "middle class tax cuts" over multiple years. Regardless of the economics, this will look like you're putting the "wrong people" first.
 
 
COMMUNICATION
 The objective of the two national polls and focus groups was to learn how to communicate Republican budget and tax policies to the American people. In one sense, this memorandum is about taking back our language and turning the issue of "fairness" against the Democrats. For example, why don't we begin to ask:
 * Is it "fair" for Medicare recipients to have even greater choice of doctors and facilities than the average taxpayers who are funding the system?
 * Is is "fair" to give student loans for truck driving schools?
 * Is it "fair" to penalize middle-class families for saving for the future?
 * Is it "fair" to leave battered children in abusive homes?
 . . .
 Put the budget debate in terms of "the American dream" and "our children's future." When asked to comment on the relationship between a balanced budget and the future of America's children, both groups unanimously agreed that they would feel extremely optimistic about their children's future if the budget deficit were erased. The public does not want to pay higher taxes or see their services cut, but the vast majority are prepared to make sacrifices "so that their children can achieve the American Dream." If we talk about pain, we lose. If our words invoke a better future, we win.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster framing the issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOCUS GROUPS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; LUNTZ, FRANK (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



142 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: The World: Models for China;
Either Filthy and Free Or Clean and Mean

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE

 BODY:
AT first glance, they couldn't be more different. The tiny city-state of Singapore is scrubbed clean. The authoritarian Government has made it a crime to chew gum or fail to flush a toilet, and litterers are humiliated by having their faces splashed across the pages of the Government-owned newspapers. Taipei, the capital of Taiwan, is filthy, arguably the least inviting city in Southeast Asia. The chaos of the streets there is matched only by the mayhem of the democratically elected legislature. Fistfights are a regular event on the floor of the Parliament.
 But different as they are, these two island-nations have one important thing in common. Both offer a vision of the future for 1.2 billion Chinese on the mainland. It is a future in which a Chinese-run government provides prosperity and security without sacrificing a distinctly Chinese way of life, with its reverence for the family and its reliance on hard work. 
 While Singapore and Taiwan embrace western concepts of free markets, the social structure remains Chinese. During last week's celebrations of the Chinese New Year, both countries effectively shut down for several days so that families could mark the holiday together. The social problems that plague the United States and other developed Western countries -- drug abuse, divorce, teen-age pregnancy, school dropouts, among them -- exist in Singapore and Taiwan, but they are far from common.
 Measured on almost every scale of economic and social achievement, Singapore (with 3 million people) and Taiwan (with 21 million) are the most successful Chinese-run nations in nearly 7,000 years of Chinese civilization. Their size belies their huge stature as role models for China. And their competition for the mainland's soul makes for the most interesting rivalry in Southeast Asia. (While Hong Kong is just as prosperous as Singapore and Taiwan, it fails as a political role model, since its Chinese citizens have had little say until recently in the running of a British colonial government.)
 So what is the battle? Simply put, many prominent Singaporeans see the Taiwanese as undisciplined roughnecks whose free-wheeling style of democracy, if adopted in China, could tear it apart. The Taiwanese, or at least many of them, see Singapore's leaders as iron-fisted bullies who treat the citizens like dimwitted children, and whose style, if transplanted to China, would mean another generation of oppression.
 The rivalry is no secret. In a scathing article in a Taipei newspaper last fall, Lung Ying-tai, a prominent Taiwanese social critic and author, attacked Singapore's Draconian legal system and ridiculed the Government's attempts to appoint itself the upholder of Asian values. "Thank goodness I am not a Singaporean," she wrote.
 Singaporeans are not all that polite about Taiwan either. The Straits Times, the Government's major English-language newspaper (private newspapers are banned in Singapore) ran an editorial last summer under the provocative headline "Singapore and Taiwan: Which Is better?" and left its readers with no doubt about the correct answer. The paper said there had been "a loss of national purpose and discipline after 10 years of democratization" in Taiwan. One of the newspaper's columnists wrote that "what the Taiwanese have done with their greater political freedom has not been encouraging" and that many Taiwanese "long for the earlier days of stability and honesty" under authoritarian rule.
 There's a saying here that Singapore's legislators love a good fist fight, just so long as it's on the floor of the Taiwanese Parliament. The press in Singapore have made much fun of the ugly side-effects of Taiwan's rush toward democracy. With glee they have covered Taiwan's brawls, vote-buying, its rising crime and divorce rates.
 Still, Taiwan is a continual annoyance for authoritarian governments in Asia, for it tends to put the lie to the idea that Asians are different from all other people; that, even after they have achieved prosperity and security, they prefer a government that restricts the rights of the individual whenever they conflict with the rights of the larger society.
 After a generation of repressive rule under President Chiang Kai-shek, Taiwan began to move toward democracy in 1987, when martial law was lifted. In 1991, President Lee Teng-hui restored constitutional rule and cleared the way for free elections for the legislature. Next year, the President will be directly and democratically elected for the first time. Taiwan now has two strong opposition parties and a free press. Tsu-Lin Mei, a professor of Chinese studies at Cornell University, said Taiwan proves that "you can have genuine democracy" in a Chinese society -- that "you can lift the iron fist and things will not dissolve."

 
 
One Vote for Singapore
 China's leaders are clearly alarmed about what is happening in Taiwan, and that has made them all the more enthusiastic about Singapore. "You do hear people on the mainland saying, 'Hey, we should do it Singapore's way,' " said Richard H. Solomon, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs in the Bush Administration. "For those who want to say that you can have an authoritarian system and really raise people's living standards, Singapore is a great model to point to."
 Nominally, Singapore is a democracy. The ruling People's Action Party has held power since 1959, mostly under Lee Kuan Yew, the former Prime Minister, who is still believed by many to be calling the shots. Human rights groups have long complained that opposition parties are harassed and citizens seem genuinely frightened to speak their minds.
 The Singapore Government has also tried to bring its foreign critics to heel. This month, The International Herald Tribune, which is owned by The New York Times and The Washington Post, was found in contempt of court for publishing an opinion article accusing unnamed Asian governments of using "a compliant judiciary to bankrupt opposition politicians." The newspaper was ordered to pay fines and court costs that will total tens of thousands of dollars.

 
 
The Trains Run On Time
 When it comes to physical environment, Singapore wins. For those Singaporeans willing to swallow their criticisms of the Government, life could not be much better. Compared to other Asian cities, Singapore is a paradise, with sprawling gardens, marble shopping malls and efficient transportation system.
 Taipei, by contrast, is a smoggy nightmare. Indeed, some Taiwanese wonder whether the country has sacrificed too much for democracy. Last year, a Taiwanese magazine, CommonWealth, compared Singapore and Taiwan and found that what most Taiwanese want is "rule of law, not greater freedom."
 That view is by no means shared by all Taiwanese. "Yes, the Taiwanese politicians are breaking the heads of one another like clowns in Parliament," Lung Ying-tai, the Taiwanese writer, has said. "But I would much rather see this sort of boisterous, tasteless farce than quiet and dignified ceremonies where oppositionists are locked up." And if the Taiwanese want change, they need only wait until next year, when for the first time in their lives, they will freely a elect a president.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Taiwan, chaos reigns, even in the National Assembly. (Reuters)(pg.1); In Singapore, everything is regimented, even the New Year's festivities. (Reuters)(pg.6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (98%); SINGAPORE (98%); CHINA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; SINGAPORE; TAIWAN; TAIPEI (TAIWAN); TAIWAN (98%); SINGAPORE (98%); CHINA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FAMILY (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); WRITERS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



143 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Poland's Leaders: Old Communists, but With a Difference

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Feb. 3

 BODY:
After nearly 18 months in power, Poland's coalition Government, with roots in the Communist past, has stalled on economic reforms, raised doubts about its commitment to joining the West and tried to clamp down on the press.
In a country where the President has threatened to dissolve Parliament on the grounds that the Government's budget was not reform minded enough, the question is: how "ex-" are Poland's ex-Communists, the first of a series of former Communists elected to lead Eastern European countries? 
 The answer appears to be: not as "ex-" as they would like to appear, but not as Communist as President Lech Walesa suggests.
Most political analysts, including the opposition, see the unpopular President, who has failed to come up with a specific alternate economic program, as posturing for re-election. The invincible Mr. Walesa of five years ago is trailing with 15 percent approval ratings.
In contrast, surveys show Poles are pleased with the slowdown on the path to a market economy. Gazeta Wyborcza, the largest circulation newspaper, published a poll today that showed 60 percent of the people opposed Mr. Walesa's current maneuverings.
In many respects, analysts say, the former Communists are merely responding to the public mood.
"These are clever guys; they know they eventually have to go to capitalism," said Henryk Domanski, a professor of sociology at the Polish Academy of Sciences who has studied Poland's Communist elite. "But they revert to symbols of the proletarian tradition and there are attempts to defend the symbolic remnants of the past."
Slawomir Nowodny, director of Demoskop, a leading public opinion survey company, said most strata of Polish society are increasingly satisfied with their economic well-being. "In recent months we're seeing more and more satisfaction among those groups who should be this government's electorate: the elderly, the unemployed, the less educated, people in small towns and villages."
So far, the partnership of the Democratic Left Alliance and the Peasants Party, whose leader, Waldemar Pawlak, is Prime Minister, has enjoyed the benefits of dramatic reforms made in the early 1990's.
Poland's economic indicators looked relatively sturdy with a 4.5 percent growth rate in 1994 compared to 2.5 percent in the Czech Republic, a leveling off in the growth of unemployment and a recent increase in foreign reserves. Consumer confidence rose as more Poles discussed whether to buy a two- or four-door car, foreign or domestic.
But these positive trends disguised deeper problems bred by the Government's stalling on privatization, analysts suggested.
The United States Ambassador to Poland, Nicholas A. Rey, a former managing director of Bear, Stearns & Co, told the newspaper Rzeczpospolita that the slowing of economic reform risked squandering the gains of the last five years.
Mr. Rey noted that the number of state enterprises privatized by the sale of equity in 1994 was 25 percent lower than in 1993. He acknowledged the argument of the Minister of Privatization, Wieslaw Kaczmarek, that the treasury had gained more revenue from privatization deals in 1994 than the year before. But Mr. Rey stressed that the goal of privatization should be to serve the long-term growth of the economy rather than to produce short-term gains.
The economy is not the only place where the former Communists have made their mark. There is less enthusiasm for joining NATO, even though, formally, it is the Government's policy. And Prime Minister Pawlak's first foreign visit was to Moscow.
Western governments were taken aback when Mr. Pawlak announced his choice for Defense Minister: Longin Pastusiak, an ideologue of the Communist Party who harped against NATO during the cold war.
The Foreign Minister, Andrzej Olechowski, who resigned over differences between his pro-NATO stance and what he termed Government lack of interest, accused the coalition leaders of cozying up to Moscow behind his back, a charge that made some Western officials wonder how serious Poland is about NATO.
"An autonomous dialogue with the Russian leadership was opened," Mr. Olechowski said. "As a result, Russia's top officials were openly talking about 'nice prime minister' and 'ugly foreign minister.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak, who has been attacked by President Lech Walesa as stalling on economic reforms, sat deep in thought in Parliament yesterday next to a carved eagle, symbol of Poland. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND; POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLAND-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); FARM LABOR (64%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; REY, NICHOLAS A (AMB) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



144 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Salary Cap Vanishes; Problems Don't

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
Negotiators in baseball's increasingly complex labor dispute fought over the critical payroll tax issue again this evening, keeping one eye on the nearby White House and one on the ramifications of the owners' agreement with the National Labor Relations Board to withdraw their implemented salary-cap system.
The players, saying that "salaries would crash," rejected the tax plan the owners proposed last Wednesday and presented a new plan of their own. The owners quickly provided a preliminary view, saying the proposal offered "little or no movement." Under the owners' plan, the Yankees would have paid $14 million in taxes on their 1994 payroll; they would pay $1.5 million under the players' plan. 
 The labor board's action in inducing the owners to withdraw the salary cap was intended to simplify the effort to get an agreement ahead of President Clinton's deadline. But it seemed, initially at least, to create the potential for additional conflicts between the owners and their striking players.
All of these developments could collide Monday, the day of the Presidential deadline and the effective date of the clubs' withdrawal of the system they implemented Dec. 23. The two sides don't know what Clinton might do if they don't settle their dispute, and the players don't know what the owners might do if the union lifts its signing freeze once the old, pre-salary cap system is restored.
A lawyer with ties to the Administration said he believed "there is a growing groundswell behind the notion of binding arbitration," an idea Congress would have to enact through legislation. While White House officials have acknowledged that the President might intervene by asking Congress to force an end to the strike, they said today that he would prefer not to take that direct a step.
The owners, meanwhile, wrestled with their response to dealing once again under the economic system they thought they had jettisoned, only to learn that the N.L.R.B. believed the owners did not have a legal impasse when they acted.
The union is expected to end its signing freeze Monday. The clubs, however, don't want to operate under the old system, one management official made clear today.
They could avoid it by applying a signing freeze of their own, incurring the risk of triple-damage collusion against free agents; they could impose a partial freeze, signing free agents but not players eligible for arbitration, or they could suspend operations altogether by locking out the players even while they strike.
In all three instances, they could run the risk of incurring the labor board's wrath for acting unilaterally after they agreed to bargain in good faith. The owners offered no immediate indication of what they would do, positively or negatively.
A union official indicated the union may ask the labor board on Sunday to direct that beginning Monday, players be permitted to sign under the old system.
In explaining why they rejected the owners' proposed new tax system, Lauren Rich, a union lawyer, said, "They want Fort Lauderdale plus $1 billion dollars." She referred to the revenue-sharing plan the owners adopted in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., a year ago.
The $1 billion represented what the union computed would be the amount of taxes generated by the owners' plan over a seven-year term if payrolls and revenues remained static.
"I don't think anyone seriously believes the clubs would do anything but respond to the heavy disincentive and salaries would crash," Donald Fehr, the union leader, said of the owners' tax plan.
The owners want to place a 75 percent tax on the portion of payrolls over $35 million and 100 percent over $42 million. The money from those taxes would fund the players' pension and benefit plan. The players' plan calls for the tax money to fund one-third of the $58 million the clubs want to distribute to low-revenue clubs under the revenue-sharing plan. The other two-thirds would come from high-revenue clubs.
The players, altering their Dec. 22 proposal, proposed a 5 percent tax on the portion of payrolls from 50 percent of the average of $40.6 million to 130 percent, 15 percent on the portion from 130 percent to 160 percent and 25 percent beyond 160 percent.
"It was a little disappointing," John Harrington, head of the owners' negotiating team, said. "There was hardly any movement."
In their new proposal, the players also offered to eliminate salary arbitration completely or partially and provide earlier, unrestricted free agency for players who otherwise would have been eligible for arbitration. The owners want to eliminate arbitration but in return for restricted free agency.
A minor flap arose late in the evening. The two sides had been scheduled to reconvene at 9:30 P.M., but 25 minutes after that time, Harrington appeared in the press room, commented on the proposal and said no meeting was scheduled.
When Fehr learned of that comment 20 minutes later, he said to reporters, "We did not get notice that they were recessing negotiations for the evening and had to find out from all of you." A few minutes later, Bill Usery Jr., the mediator, joined the players and told them he had just learned from the owners that they did not plan to meet.
Earlier in the evening, the President was at the same hotel, one floor up, attending a Wellesley College reunion with his wife, Hillary. He did not duck out to meet with negotiators.
Aides to Clinton made plain that he and his aides were monitoring the negotiating developments closely. But with opinion polls showing most Americans would prefer that the owners and players resolve their dispute themselves, the White House was also being careful not to be seen as having assumed the central role.
"It is not constructive when the two parties are at the table to comment on negotiations as sensitive as these," said the White House spokeswoman Dawn Alexander. "If the parties reach an agreement over the weekend, then obviously the President will be thrilled. If not, the possible course of action will come in the form of a recommendation from Mr. Usery. Mr. Usery is in charge."
The President has said he will ask Usery to propose his own solution if the two sides can't get there by Monday.
Other Administration officials acknowledged today that the White House had made clear to the owners in recent weeks that it would not look favorably upon their use of replacement players.
Administration officials said that even if the weekend talks fall short of a settlement, Clinton does not intend -- at least publicly -- to embrace any specific solution himself. They said they hoped a proposal from Usery would carry sufficient weight to put pressure on both sides.
If that strategy fails, too, the idea of binding arbitration could leap to the forefront.
"I think there's a growing sense that that may be the only answer," said the lawyer with Administration ties. "You can't really specifically offend anyone if you recommend binding arbitration because you're not favoring one side or the other. You're saying the sides are desperately far apart. Maybe an arbitrator beyond reproach, perhaps a former Supreme Court justice, could decide the dispute."
Even if that becomes the White House's weapon, it would have to get through Congress, and that could become a dubious effort. Whether Senators and Representatives believed it was a good idea or not, some people raised the question of whether a Republican Congress would want to make a Democratic President look good by helping him get Major League Baseball restored.
Meanwhile, Usery, who would prefer the two sides settle the dispute without a proposal from him, did make one request. He asked Bud Selig, the acting commissioner, to come to Washington to join the talks.
"I haven't talked to Bill for a little over a day," Selig said today by telephone from Milwaukee before heading for a previous engagement in Atlanta. "I'm waiting to hear from him. Whenever he wants me to come, I'll be there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (90%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (90%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; STRIKES WAGES & SALARIES (94%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



145 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
U.S. SETS TARIFFS ON CHINA
The Clinton Administration imposed punitive sanctions on more than $ 1 billion of goods, the largest such action in American history, charging that Beijing had refused to crack down on pirating of American software, movies and music. 1
 
U.S. REVERSAL ON CHINA
News analysis: Despite moving last year to embrace China, Washington is now imposing tough sanctions. But officials say the "engagement" policy endures. 1 

DUTCH DOUBT TECHNOLOGY
For generations, the Dutch have lived below sea level. Last week, they began to doubt that their celebrated technology would keep the waters away from their homes. 10
 
JAPAN RESISTS QUAKE AID
Normally it is Western business executives who gripe about Japan's bureaucracy. But in the aftermath of the earthquake, the Japanese complain that their Government has blocked foreign aid. 1
 
MORE BLOODSHED IN THE CAUCASUS
Georgian refugees returning to their homes in the separatist province of Abkhazia are facing looting, terror, rape and death. 3
 
MEXICAN BAILOUT PLAN ENDORSED
Financial leaders expressed "full satisfaction" with U.S.-led efforts to rescue the Mexican economy. 16
 
A $ 4.4 million robbery in Ireland makes crime a political issue. 8
 
Britain's John Major takes a tougher stance on Europe. 10
 
Despite an economic boom, unemployment swells in Argentina. 16
 
Peacekeeping missions now attract more troops than they need. 17
 
National 18-36
 
THE AGE OF MODERATION
Growing up with tougher drunken-driving laws and 21-year-old legal drinking ages, students are consuming less alcohol. 1
 
STATES LIMITING REGULATIONS
At least 17 states have amended their constitutions to prevent their legislatures from imposing regulations on cities and counties without providing the money for them. 18
 
THE PRESIDENT PLAYS IT SAFE
In drafting his budget proposal, the President considered aggressive efforts to reduce the deficit, but instead settled for keeping it near its current level, Administration officials said. 24
 
A REFLECTION OF RACIAL BIAS?
Union Point Journal: Wanting to squelch a rash of shoplifting, officials in a small Georgia city published a list of 21 people suspected of theft. All are black. 18
 
F.A.A. IS ACCUSED OF COVER-UP
An Federal aviation official said his agency had destroyed documents relating to a fatal plane crash, apparently in an effort to conceal Senator Tom Daschle's interventions on behalf of a friend. 24
 
'THURSDAY EVENING MASSACRE'
In one afternoon, the Virginia Legislature sank Gov. George Allen's fleet of plans for change, including plans to cut taxes and services. 21
 
A leaking shuttle rocket threatens a planned space rendezvous. 27
 
Alaska's program of killing gray wolves has been canceled. 29
 
The size of salmon in the Northwest has been shrinking. 31
 
Metropolitan 37-45, 56
 
VENGEANCE OF WINTER
The first big snowstorm of the season roared across the New York metropolitan area and the Northeast with a vengeance yesterday, covering the region under accumulations six to 16 inches deep and turning the day into a hardship for some and a magical adventure for others. 1
 
PATAKI CHOICE CRITICIZED
Governor Pataki's choice of George J. Marlin, the Conservative Party leader, as head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is facing growing resistance from the commissioners of the powerful agency, and the much-criticized nomination may have to be delayed or even withdrawn. 1
 
CONTRABAND CIGARETTES
At the Westchester County Jail, cigarettes have served as currency for the inmates. But that staple of prison culture was eliminated this week when Westchester corrections officials imposed a smoking ban inside the jail and placed cigarettes on a list of contraband that also includes liquor, knives and drugs. 37
 
Residents react to an investigation of the 48th Police Precinct. 37
 
Neediest Cases 38
 
Obituaries 47
 
Patricia Highsmith, author.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); NEW YORK (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); NEW YORK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (77%); HISTORY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); REFUGEES (70%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); RACE & RACISM (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (65%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); TAX LAW (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); CITIES (63%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); SHOPLIFTING (50%); 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



146 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: A Trade Tie That Binds

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
Nearly a year and a half ago, the United States decided that it had to end the deterioration in relations with China by embracing rather than isolating the Beijing Government.
Since then, there has been a steady stream of high-level diplomatic, economic and military contacts. There have also been setbacks to American goals concerning human rights, weapons proliferation, Taiwan and trade, culminating in today's decision to impose the toughest retaliatory trade sanctions in American history. 
 But despite today's harsh words and actions, senior Administration officials insist that the policy they informally call "intensive engagement" has not failed, and that they will continue to pursue it.
No matter that the bilateral dialogue is so irregular that the Chinese did not even bother to reply to an invitation to come to Washington this week to talk about the problems.
No matter that Republican critics of the policy, including House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Frank H. Murkowski, who heads the Senate subcommittee on Asia policy, say the Administration is fooling itself in thinking Beijing can be wooed. Arguing that Communists respond only to a harder line, they have mentioned normalizing relations with Taiwan.
American officials point to cooperation they say the policy has yielded, like nudging North Korea into a nuclear cooperation agreement. And they say China's behavior may have been even worse had there been more threats and less talking.
But the main reason for the Administration's determination to press ahead is this: American policy makers say there is no other choice.
China is still a one-party Communist state, but it is the third-largest economy in the world, and economic concerns have taken center stage in the Administration's foreign policy. The decision last spring to renew China's trade benefits despite its poor human rights record was a decision to help American business; so was today's decision to punish China for its rampant pirating of American goods and services.
In imposing the sanctions, the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, made clear that business had won out over diplomacy, that he had paid no attention to China's internal decision-making process or the declining health of Deng Xiaoping.
"I have one job: to protect American workers and create markets for U.S. products and exports," he said in an interview on Friday. "I cannot control what China's leadership does. That is none of my business."
In addition, the Administration argues, a new wave of nationalistic statements and repression attributable to Mr. Deng's worsening health make it even more important to stay the course.
"I'm not trying to pretend that the relationship is in great shape," Winston Lord, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, said in an interview on Friday. "There are some difficult patches, as well as some areas where we are making progress. But the purpose here is to make progress on whatever fronts we can, and to maintain the overall momentum even if things are stalled on certain fronts."
That view is reflected in a formal paper assessing the policy and United States interests over the next several months that will be discussed at the White House next week. Still, senior Administration officials make no secret of their disappointment with China's failure to respond positively to Washington's overtures and conciliatory gestures.
"There has been a stiffening across the board in our relationship with Beijing," said one senior Administration official who has been a strong proponent of the policy. "We continue to implement our engagement strategy at all levels, because managing the relationship is so important. But now the problems are building so much it's going to be extraordinarily difficult to do it."
For example, senior officials said, the Administration's campaign to persuade China to cooperate on curbing the spread of weapons has been stalled since last October, when Foreign Minister Qian Qichen pledged in writing that China would not sell or transfer surface-to-surface missiles covered by an international accord controlling the transfer of sensitive missile technology.
Since then, the Chinese have rebuffed an American proposal to forgive Chinese violations of the accord, known as the Missile Technology Control regime, and to waive possible sanctions if China admits the violations.
They have also ignored American protests about their nuclear cooperation with Iran and have refused repeated requests to establish a regular high-level dialogue to discuss weapons-related sales and arms control issues.
Chinese officials have complained loudly, in private diplomatic protests and in public statements, that Washington's decision to upgrade its contacts with Taiwan violates its "one China" policy, which recognizes only the Government in Beijing.
Senior Administration officials, including Peter Tarnoff, the Under Secretary of State for Policy, and Mr. Lord have repeatedly tried to convince the Chinese otherwise, arguing that the contacts are economic, not political, and that the United States is doing less with Taiwan than many of its European allies.
As for human rights, the State Department's recent annual report on human rights concluded that China failed to make progress in all major human rights areas last year, underscoring the Administration's failure to nudge China into improving its performance despite the extension of trade privileges to Beijing eight months ago.
Both liberal and conservative critics of the Administration's policy have used human rights as an issue on which to make points. Many rights advocates predicted when the Administration dropped the link that the result was unlikely to be improved treatment of dissidents. And Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, the New York Republican who is chairman of the House International Relations Committee, said after the report's release that torture and other abuses seemed to be more prevalent in China since "comprehensive engagement" began.
"The Administration's policy seems to be accept what they say in the area of human rights and ignore what they do," he said.
These and other problems in Washington-Beijing relations are to be discussed at the White House next week in an effort to fine-tune the policy toward China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); TAIWAN (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (53%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); TAIWAN (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); HISTORY (56%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



147 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT IMPOSES TRADE SANCTIONS ON CHINESE GOODS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration imposed punitive tariffs today on more than $1 billion of Chinese goods, the largest trade sanctions in American history, and warned of further action if the Communist Government continued to refuse to crack down on rampant piracy of American software, movies and music.
The decision to impose 100 percent punitive tariffs on goods ranging from silk blouses to cellular telephones was met almost immediately by an angry Chinese announcement of tariffs against American goods. 
 The confrontation comes at a particularly delicate moment in Chinese-American relations, with disagreements brewing on human rights and arms control, and with China's 90-year-old paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, reported to be seriously ill.
But after several meetings at the White House in recent days on the deteriorating relations, Administration officials decided that despite the delicate transition of power presumed to be under way, they could not justify delaying the sanctions any longer. Through the first 11 months of 1994, the United States imported $36 billion of products from China while exporting $8.5 billion of goods there.
Each country said its penalties would take effect on Feb. 26. The delay, a common practice in cases of trade sanctions, is intended to assure that goods shipped before the retaliatory tariffs were announced would not be affected.
The delay also provides a chance for further talks; last February, the Chinese struck a deal in a textile dispute on the day when previously announced sanctions were to take effect. But some trade officials speculate that the unsettled state of the Chinese leadership makes such last-minute bargaining less likely.
American consumers will be among the first victims of the trade dispute, as they are any time the Government decides to set a tariff to harm the sales of another country's goods. Under the rules published today, for example, the United States Customs Service would be required to put a $100 tax on every $100 Chinese-made bicycle imported to the United States.
Over the last five weeks, however, American officials have been pruning the list of products selected for retaliation, homing in on goods produced in several other nations as well, so that American consumers could choose, for example, a Japanese or British-made bicycle that is not subject to the tariffs.
They have also avoided products on which tariffs would be likely to hurt American business, including two of China's biggest exports to the United States, toys and electronic goods.
Today's action was the culmination of a dispute between the United States and China that has bubbled along for nearly two years, a period in which the Administration said it would no longer link human rights issues to preferential trade status.
The current dispute has begun to eclipse Washington's long-running trade arguments with Japan. Last year the American trade deficit with China climbed to $30 billion -- roughly half the size of the deficit with Japan -- and United States businesses say that piracy of American "intellectual property," particularly copyrighted material like movies and music, has contributed to the trade imbalance.
The United States has repeatedly demanded, for example, that China close 29 factories -- many of them state-owned -- that are producing 70 million compact disks and videodisks every year, from illegal copies of Whitney Houston's hit soundtrack from "The Bodyguard" to movies like "True Lies" and "Clear and Present Danger." Those goods can be found all over Asia, from the streets of Hong Kong to many stores in Tokyo.
At a news conference here today, Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, held up bootleg products purchased around Asia, including knockoffs of the latest version of the Microsoft Corporation's personal computer operating system and canned foods bearing the label "Del Monte." Mr. Kantor said that after 21 negotiating sessions in the last two years, China still refused to crack down on the production and distribution of such products.
"The Chinese know what they have to do," he said. "They are the third-largest economy in the world, and they can stop this if they want."
Mr. Kantor said the sanctions were approved by President Clinton.
China also said today that it would suspend negotiations with American auto makers over the establishment of joint ventures in China to build mini-vans and passenger cars. Getting American car makers into China, as both German and Japanese manufacturers are expanding their presence there, has been an important economic priority of the Clinton Administration.
Even so, business support for a tough stand has spread in the last month, in contrast to trade sanctions in the past, which have often divided business leaders. The chairman of the Ford Motor Company, Alexander J. Trotman, said last week at an economic conference in Davos, Switzerland, that if the company was caught in the middle of a Washington-Beijing trade war, "so be it."
He added, "I think it's a very important question that needs to be addressed."
Mr. Kantor made it clear, however, that the list of affected goods had been shaped with the aim of minimizing the impact on American businesses.
"We have also tried to pick products that are produced by China's state-owned enterprises," Mr. Kantor said. While he declined to go into the reasoning behind singling out those businesses, many of those enterprises are owned by the People's Liberation Army and other Government agencies, and their profits have frequently enriched China's leaders and their families.
The decision not to include toys and electronics came after hearings in recent weeks convinced Mr. Kantor's aides that so many toys are now produced exclusively in China that doubling the tariff would harm American retailers and anger consumers. "It didn't take a political genius to see that we would be blamed for taking toys out of the hands of little kids," one Administration official said Friday as the final list was being prepared.
In fact, because of a quirk in trade laws, the United States actually ended all tariffs on toys as of Jan. 1, under the new General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade approved by Congress in November. While China is not a signer of the agreement, President Clinton's decision last year to extend preferential trade status to China mandated that it, too, would benefit from the elimination of toy tariffs.
American officials said today that they did not know how much those tariffs would total, but outside experts said they could compensate for the penalties imposed today and perhaps exceed them.
Administration officials said they excluded most electronic components from the sanctions after American computer makers were told that China was the main supplier of a large variety of cables and circuit boards used in personal computers.
Imposing sanctions on those goods, Mr. Kantor concluded, would only work to the advantage of foreign computer makers. But his aides said other items could be added to the list if China refused to reach a satisfactory agreement.
Mr. Kantor acted today under the "special 301" provisions of the 1974 Trade Act, which covers intellectual property. The law requires that after an investigation, the trade representative can declare a country's trade practices unreasonable. He made that declaration in December, two years after a previous dispute with China on the same subject resulted in an agreement with Beijing to write laws protecting copyrights and patents.
"They passed the laws, and they are well written," Mr. Kantor said in an interview in his office on Friday. "They have just refused to enforce them."
Lengthy negotiations were held in Beijing in January that yielded some progress, including an agreement by the Chinese to place a distinctive identifier code on compact disks produced in its factories, so that they can be traced to their point of manufacture. But the talks stalled when it came to taking tougher action, and China declined an invitation to continue talking in Washington last week, during the celebration of the lunar New Year.
Administration officials have a variety of theories as to why this dispute is proving so intractable.
The most popular centers on the transition in power in Beijing. Several State Department officials say they think the intense focus on Mr. Deng's health has distracted the Chinese leadership. They also speculate that some top leaders, mindful of the price they paid during the Cultural Revolution, do not want to be identified as internationalists -- seeking accommodation with the United States -- until it is clear who will dominate China's leadership.
The current dispute is linked to a broader argument between China and the West: whether Beijing is ready for admission to the new World Trade Organization, the successor to the GATT organization in Geneva that has presided over world trade since the end of World War II.
Entry to the World Trade Organization, with the trade benefits that implies, has been a central objective of China's leadership. But the United States has stood in the way, saying that until China respects intellectual property and opens its markets, it is not suited for membership.
"We must stand firm," said Representative Philip M. Crane, an Illinois Republican and chairman of the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. "If China wishes to become a member of the World Trade Organization, it must show that it is complying with the rules of the multilateral trade regime."
China's restrictions on American imports are legion, and many go beyond Japan's most protectionist policies. Only 10 American films, for example, are permitted to be shown in China each year, a quota that has both political and commercial roots. But that restriction has created an enormous demand for bootleg copies of American video cassettes and videodisks, the large, CD-like platters that can store an entire movie.
While the focus of the dispute has been on movies and music, the bigger money may lie in computer software. Copies of the most popular American software are available in shops from Beijing through the new economic zones in Southern China at a fraction of their retail prices in the United States.
"One of our negotiators paid $100 for a CD-ROM that had $10,000 worth of American software on it," Mr. Kantor said Friday. "And the Chinese told us this was out of their control."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, announced sanctions on Chinese goods yesterday. At issue is the pirating of American software, movies and music, including compact disks; United States businesses say piracy of American "intellectual property" has contributed to a $30 billion trade deficit with China. A customer checked the quality of a bootleg compact disk yesterday in Beijing. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (51%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (51%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; MOTION PICTURES; MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); RECORDINGS (VIDEO) TARIFFS & DUTIES (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); HISTORY (73%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (72%); MUSIC (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (65%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); ESPIONAGE (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



148 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: More Prisons Are Banning Cigarettes

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: VALHALLA, N.Y., Feb. 1

 BODY:
Charles Sanders gets a lot more than a nicotine fix from cigarettes. He wagers them in blackjack games, and he can even swap them for shampoo, shaving cream, candy bars, hamburgers, sandwiches and other goods.
He is an inmate at the Westchester County Jail here, and cigarettes serve as the currency of daily life for him and other inmates. "Cigarettes are like money to us," said Mr. Sanders, 39, who has served 13 months. "A lot of guys buy cigarettes and don't even smoke. They just buy them to trade." 
 But this staple of prison culture was eliminated this week when Westchester corrections officials imposed a smoking ban inside the jail and placed cigarettes on a list of contraband that includes liquor, knives and drugs. The officials say they enacted the prohibition for much the same reason that restaurants, museums, malls, offices, theaters and other public places have: to provide a smoke-free environment for nonsmokers.
Westchester's is not the only jail to be seized by the nation's anti-smoking fervor. Corrections officials from here to Texas to California have imposed similar restrictions in recent years despite heavy opposition from inmates and even guards, who maintain that cigarettes have long played a vital role in soothing nerves in the combustible atmosphere behind bars.
"It's a stressful environment," explained Mr. Sanders, who smokes about half a pack of Newports a day. "You want to know how stressful it is? There are people who don't smoke, but end up smoking once they come in here."
In New York State alone, at least 13 out of the 62 counties, including large ones like Nassau, Suffolk and Albany, have enacted or announced plans to enact smoking bans in their jails. In Connecticut, 14 of the state's 27 prisons prohibit smoking; the rest have opened at least one nonsmoking housing unit. And in New Jersey's 12 adult prisons, inmates are no longer permitted to smoke in their cells if their cellmates are nonsmokers.
The anti-smoking regulations also apply to death-row inmates in California and Texas -- even those seeking a final smoke as a last request before execution. "We wouldn't give them a shot of whisky or cocaine," said Larry Todd, a spokesman for the Department of Criminal Justice in Texas, where the smoking ban begins in March in the state's 80 jails and prisons, "so I doubt we'd give them a cigarette."
But smoking bans have run into problems in some places. In Vermont, corrections officials loosened restrictions on smoking after some inmates became so desperate that they began smoking powdered Tang, the instant juice drink. In addition, the black-market price of cigarettes skyrocketed, with individual cigarettes selling for as much as $ 3 and a single puff for $ 1. As a compromise, officials now allow inmates to smoke outdoors.
"More and more prisons and jails are looking at going smokeless," said Rod V. Bottoms, a senior corrections specialist with the Information Center of the National Institute of Corrections, a branch of the Department of Justice. "But it's difficult, because of the culture in prisons."
In Rensselaer County, which is across the Hudson River from Albany, a smoking ban was enacted about two years ago in the local jail. Corrections officials are so concerned about the possible consequences that they have adopted a program of handing out carrot and celery sticks, potato chips and popcorn twice a day to calm jittery inmates.
"It takes more than just putting up no-smoking signs," said Robert Loveridge, a colonel with the Rensselaer Sheriff's Department, who supervises the county jail. "You have to be empathetic to the needs of the prisoners."
In Albany County, corrections officials announced a smoking ban last month but decided not to implement it until March to give prisoners time to break the habit. "We decided it would be better if we gradually wean the inmates off cigarettes," said Thomas J. Wigger, the assistant superintendent of the Albany County Jail. "Cold turkey was not the best solution for all involved."
In some cases, local and state corrections departments have adopted the no-smoking policy because of a growing number of complaints and even lawsuits from nonsmoking prisoners and guards who worry about the health risks of secondhand smoke. Others have done so to comply with local anti-smoking ordinances. Many corrections officials have refused to allow prisoners to smoke outdoors or in designated smoking areas because regulating when and where smoking takes places would entail extra work.
The Dutchess County (N.Y.) Sherriff's Department started prohibiting smoking in its jail in 1992 after Kenneth Altieri, a corrections officer, filed a lawsuit demanding a smoke-free environment for himself and other nonsmokers.
Mr. Altieri, who is 45, says he became very unpopular because of his stand. But he said he could no longer tolerate coming home reeking of smoke. "You couldn't go anywhere in the building without running into smoke," he said. "Your clothes would stink of it. Your hair would stink of it. You couldn't escape it."
"Besides," he added, "it kills you."
Here in Westchester, corrections officials adopted the policy in order to comply with a county order banning smoking in all county buildings. As of the beginning of this month, inmates face a loss of privileges -- for example, they can be confined to their cells -- if they are caught with cigarettes, cigars and other tobacco products. By contrast, possession of drugs or weapons carries more serious penalties like criminal charges.
Luke J. Smith, the Deputy Commissioner for the county's Department of Corrections, said officials had not set up any special program to help prisoners cope with nicotine withdrawal because many are jailed for only a few days, usually until they can post bail. "We have a constant turnover," he said.
But what about withdrawal symptoms for inmates who are locked up for longer periods? "If inmates have problems," Mr. Smith said, "they can call to see a nurse and handle it as a medical problem." It would be treated like any other addiction, he added.
To prisoners, the ban adds yet one more layer of punishment to the deprivation of life behind bars.
Ambrose Rooney has managed to get by in jail for the last 10 months by smoking after every meal. "Being locked up alone is stressful," he said. "Cigarettes relieve that stress, frustration and anxiety."
He added: "A lot of times you see guys get off the phone after arguing with their girlfriends or wives and the first thing they do is grab a cigarette."
But cigarettes have served as more than just a tranquilizer for Mr. Rooney. Occasionally, he has traded them for hamburgers, rice, scallops or other leftovers from the kitchen.
But those days are behind him, and he wonders if there isn't a better solution. "They should have come up with a more flexible guideline, like smoking and nonsmoking blocks," he said. "They should have done it that way."
Mr. Rooney added, "This is a jail, not a restaurant, museum or country club."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Sanders, a prisoner at Westchester County Jail, where tobacco is now banned, said cigarettes were often bartered as well as smoked. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO SMOKING (92%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); PRISONS (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); COCAINE (69%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND CHARLES A SANDERS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



149 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Decides to Control, but Not Cut, the Deficit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
In drafting the budget proposal he plans to send to Congress on Monday, President Clinton seriously considered more aggressive efforts to make deep reductions in the budget deficit. Instead, a variety of political reasons led him to settle for keeping the deficit near its current level, Administration officials said today.
The President's budget calls for spending $1.6 trillion in the 1996 fiscal year, which begins in October. It shows a deficit of $196.7 billion in 1996, up slightly from the $192.5 billion projected for this year. 
 One of Mr. Clinton's proudest boasts is that in 1993 he persuaded Congress to adopt a budget plan that saves at least $505 billion over five years. He describes it as "the largest deficit reduction package in history." As a result of that plan, he says, the deficit dropped sharply, and "the economy has improved far more than even the most optimistic forecasters predicted."
By contrast, Mr. Clinton says his new budget would save $81 billion over five years, and the decline in the deficit would stop. His strategy is to control the deficit, but not to reduce it further.
For friends and foes, who say that Mr. Clinton had the political courage to propose tough cuts in the deficit two years ago, the apparent decline in his interest at a time when deficit-cutting is more in vogue on Capitol Hill could seem puzzling.
The President decided on that strategy in December. Alice M. Rivlin, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, was virtually alone in advocating more aggressive efforts to reduce the deficit, Administration officials said. She received occasional support from Leon E. Panetta, the former budget director who is now White House chief of staff, they said.
"There were discussions about whether we should do more to reduce the deficit," said a White House official who participated in those discussions. "Except for Alice and occasionally Leon, no one thought we should do more."
The President's conclusion was based, in part, on a political judgment. "People don't care about deficit reduction," said a White House official. "We did that in the first two years. Look where it got us. We lost the House and the Senate."
Mr. Clinton's decision was also based on tactical considerations. He and his advisers feared that if they proposed a major new effort to drive down the deficit, they would inadvertently help the new Republican majority in Congress.
"If the Republicans want to do more deficit reduction, let them come forward with their own ideas," a White House official said. "Why make it easy for them? In the current political environment, we don't have control. The Republicans could take our proposed savings and use them for the tax cuts in the Contract With America."
The political risk, of course, is that the President's old deficit fighting notwithstanding, his new, more cautious approach could allow Republicans to cast him as a defender of the status quo on the deficit. And both Republicans and conservative Democrats have reacted to news of his budget plans by criticizing him for cutting too little.
The Administration has other strategies in mind as well. The President has denounced the Republican tax proposals on the ground that they would cost too much, nearly $200 billion over five years, and would shower the greatest benefits on the richest people. (Mr. Clinton says his own tax proposals would mainly help the middle class and cost $63 billion over five years.)
The Administration also makes an economic argument to justify its approach: the dollar amount of the deficit is said to be less important than the size of the deficit in relation to the economy as a whole. Under the President's budget, the deficit would be stable, but the economy would continue to grow. So according to his projections, the deficit, now equivalent to 2.7 percent of the gross domestic product, would decline to 2.1 percent in the year 2000, "its lowest level since 1979."
Democrats in Congress say that argument may have merit as economic analysis but is useless as a political response to voters and lawmakers demanding a balanced budget.
"Clinton's argument that the deficit-to-G.D.P. ratio is declining, that's just a bunch of words that most Americans don't relate to very well," said a longtime Democratic aide on Capitol Hill. "He may be right, but he will not score any political points unless he can explain his position in a way that people understand."
Gene Sperling, an aide to the President, said Mr. Clinton's budget showed that he was willing to make the "hard specific choices" needed to keep the deficit under control.
But members of Congress, who are debating a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget, want more.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said the spending cuts proposed by Mr. Clinton were insufficient. Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, said it was now obvious that "the Administration does not believe in balancing the budget." Representative Martin O. Sabo of Minnesota, the ranking Democrat on the panel, said he would have preferred more deficit reduction and has told colleagues that he will not be a cheerleader for the President's budget.
Martha H. Phillips, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan organization that lobbies for a balanced budget, said Mr. Clinton was sending a signal that "$200 billion is about the right level for the deficit."
And Representative Gene Taylor, a conservative Democrat from Mississippi, said the Clinton package was "an insult to all those people who walked the plank and lost their jobs supporting his budget two years ago."
But Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said Mr. Clinton's political judgment might ultimately prove to be correct.
"If the deficit goes down in the next couple of years and it's done as a result of actions by the Republican Congress, the President will still get some credit," said Mr. Reischauer. "He signs the appropriations bills. If he's running for re-election, he can go to the American people as a co-author of deficit reduction."
Budget documents show that the President carefully balanced fiscal and political concerns on other issues as well:
*A business tax credit for research and experimentation would be allowed to expire on June 30. In the 1992 campaign, Mr. Clinton supported the credit as a way to stimulate research investments by high technology companies. In his budget, he does not formally propose extending the tax credit. But he says he may support it if Congress can find a way to pay the cost, estimated at $10 billion over five years.
*In keeping with his campaign pledge, Mr. Clinton would increase Federal spending on AIDS programs. The total would rise 7 percent, to $2.9 billion. That includes $1.4 billion for research financed by the National Institutes of Health and $724 million for community health care services.
*Mr. Clinton's budget avoids large cuts in farm programs, protects spending for rural electric cooperatives and seeks an increase in rural development programs run by the Agriculture Department.
For Head Start, which provides a wide range of services to preschool children, Mr. Clinton will seek $3.9 billion, an increase of $400 million over this year's level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



150 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Union Point Journal;
Pilloried On a List That's Guilt By Name

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNION POINT, Ga., Feb. 3

 BODY:
Wanting to squelch a rash of shoplifting, burglary and vandalism, the authorities in this small eastern Georgia city came up with a list of those assumed to be responsible. Then they published it, an exercise that has turned into a variation of the colonial practice of using pillories to display residents for the scorn of fellow citizens.
But there was a troubling racial twist. All those on the list were black. 
 It contained the names of 19 men and 2 women from the ages of 15 to 31 who were suspected but never convicted of committing such crimes. With the help of merchants, the 21 were banned from more than two dozen stores and other businesses ranging from banks to video arcades to coin-operated laundries along the half-mile-long commercial strip.
"You are not to enter said premises," said the tersely worded notice that the police personally delivered on Dec. 7 to the 21 people. "If you do so, you will be charged with criminal trespass and/or disorderly conduct."
Some residents said the list reflected a long history of racial bias and police harassment of blacks in the town of 1,750 people, which is 43 percent black. And this week the ban led eight on the list to file suit in Federal District Court in Macon, alleging that the ban violated their civil rights and was racially discriminatory.
About a mile from downtown Union Point, in the black community known as "the Old Field," three of those named on the list, at first angrily and then plaintively, told of what it had meant for them.
As a practical matter, said Reginald Howard, an unemployed 31-year-old construction worker, it meant that he now had to go 10 miles to nearby Greensboro to a dry cleaner or laundry. For Reginald and Rodney Barnett, 19-year-old twins, the biggest problem was the "guilt by association" and the unfairness of singling out blacks "for something that white kids are doing, too."
"Everybody on that list may not be innocent, but I know I am," Reginald Barnett said of the humiliation he felt. "I'm upset. Every time people see us they think we're thieves because we are on the list."
While the city Police Chief, Richard Reese, insisted that Union Point officials who had the idea of the ban were on firm legal footing, based on talks with the city and district attorneys, others were not so sure.
"It is quite extraordinary and appears to be an unconstitutional racial classification on its face," said Laughlin McDonald, regional director in Atlanta of the American Civil Liberties Union, which is not involved in the suit. "But it offends a number of other constitutional rights as well, including the requirement for due process. It is a legislative body and the executive branch, and not a judge and jury, making outcasts of a group of people."
What is clear from interviews throughout the town is that the idea of the list originated with Mayor Ben Stewart, the owner of a local finance company and three other downtown businesses. The five whites and one black on the City Council went along with the idea.
In an interview, Mayor Stewart denied that the makeup of the list amounted to racial discrimination. It reflected "a behavioral problem and not a racial problem," he said, adding that he and others were still trying to devise a class that those on the list could attend to have their names purged from it.
In the meantime, though, he said he had been contacted by the Federal Justice Department's Community Relations Service, which he said might want to mediate the dispute and avoid a court fight.
Some merchants said they were having second thoughts about the ban. Samuel E. Kilgore, the white owner of Rhodes and Kilgore Pharmacy, one of about a half dozen businesses in a strip of renovated 19th century storefronts facing the railroad tracks that run through downtown Union Point, said he was surprised that the list had only blacks on it. He said he was pretty sure that some whites were guilty of shoplifting in his store. But he said he reasoned that those on the list were the most troublesome.
"We were all having problems with shoplifting that seem to have ended," Mr. Kilgore said. "I really trusted that the police and city officials knew what they were doing to the point that I was willing to assist them. But when people start filing lawsuits it puts some doubt in your mind."
While Mr. Kilgore has not completely backed away from the list and the ban, another merchant, Dexter Jackson, 25, has. Mr. Jackson, who runs his family's arcade and clothing store downtown and was the only black store-owner to originally endorse the idea, has withdrawn his support and participation. He said when he saw that all those on the list were black and some were his most frequent customers, he talked with many of their parents and decided that it was not the right thing to do.
"The police came up with this list on their own, and the kids saw it as a way for the cops to pick on them and harass them," he said. "That's one of the reasons why I had a problem with it. Plus, no white kids are on the list and I know that in any town you will have good whites and good blacks, bad whites and bad blacks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reginald Howard, left, Reginald Barnett, center, and Rodney Barnett, are among 21 people whose names appeared on a list of suspected, not convicted, shoplifters in Union Point, Ga. Those on the list have been banned from some retail stores in the area, prompting the filing of a civil-rights lawsuit. (David Murray Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNION POINT (GA); UNITED STATES (91%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; SHOPLIFTING; BLACKS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; DISCRIMINATION LITIGATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BURGLARY (90%); SHOPLIFTING (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (86%); VANDALISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); DUE PROCESS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (69%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (68%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (58%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



151 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Allies Mute Discord Over Mexico

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 4

 BODY:
Financial leaders of seven leading industrial countries expressed "full satisfaction" today with American-led efforts to rescue the Mexican economy but said they wanted international organizations to improve their ability to forestall similar crises.
Finance ministers of the Group of Seven countries met in Toronto as the crisis of recent weeks over the fragile state of Mexico's finances appeared to ease. 
 European ministers made a determined effort to tone down disagreements earlier in the week with the United States over Mexican aid.
The International Monetary Fund, which is supposed to provide early warning of financial crises, has been criticized for failing to anticipate the difficulties in Mexico. The ministers said they had discussed the need for the monetary fund and the World Bank to improve their ability to detect problems early.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who spent 25 years with the New York investment house of Goldman Sachs, said today that the problem was the "almost instantaneous flows of capital that take place in today's financial markets."
He said the I.M.F. and World Bank, sister organizations that have piloted the world's economic system for half a century, "need to be as modern as the world we live in."
The discord between the United States and European allies related to President Clinton's failure to consult them as he changed gears in the face of overwhelming Congressional opposition to an earlier proposal that would have required the approval of the Congress. He then announced a new $50 billion Mexican aid plan that did not require Congressional approval and which was greeted enthusiastically in financial markets.
Mr. Rubin said President Clinton had to make his decision in a few hours last Monday night and Tuesday morning, without "the consultations that we as much as anybody would have liked."
Finance Minister Edmond Alphandery of France said, "The rapidity with which the plan of mobilization of $50 billion was put together did not permit all the consultation that one would have liked, but the plan is solid and has the confidence of markets, as has been shown."
But his British counterpart, Kenneth Clarke, said, "The pace of events in Mexico underlined the need for maximum communications and advance warning."
Mexico has been battered by waves of flight by investors since its devaluation of the peso in December. Many financial analysts said the country was close to defaulting on its debt when the American aid was announced.
"We were very close to very serious financial distress in Mexico," which could have had damaging effects on world markets and the global economy, Mr. Rubin said.
The President's package includes $20 billion in medium- and long-term loans or loan guarantees from the Treasury's Exchange Stabilization Fund, which the President was able to order without Congressional approval. Another $17.8 billion is to come from the I.M.F., $10 billion from the central banks of leading nations through the Bank for International Settlements and $3 billion from commercial banks.
The monetary fund, a Washington-based international agency that helps countries in financial trouble, had already agreed to a $7.8 billion loan to Mexico. Mexico will be able to draw on it on Monday.
But several European countries said they were caught by surprise with Washington's demand for an additional $10 billion from the fund, which is supported by contributions from the world's richest nations, and they registered their displeasure at a meeting of the fund's executive board on Wednesday in Washington.
At that meeting Britain, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland abstained from approving the Clinton plan, saying they had not been adequately consulted. But the plan was approved with nearly 85 percent of the weighted membership vote.
The thrust of European objections, echoed this weekend in Toronto, was that by doing so much for Mexico, a major trading partner of the United States, the international community was in danger of shortchanging Russia and perhaps other countries that are major trading partners of the Europeans.
The meeting of the seven countries -- the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- began on Friday night and ended today.
The ministers spent a good deal of time discussing conditions in Russia. They said they welcomed "the state of commitment of the Russian Government to economic reform," but noted "with concern the recent rebound in inflation and substantial risks for the budget, which have been heightened by the situation in Chechnya."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); DEVALUATION (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



152 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Subway Bombing Suspect Moved to Bellevue

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The man accused in the Dec. 21 subway firebombing in lower Manhattan has left the hospital where he had been handcuffed to his bed and guarded around the clock.
The suspect, Edward J. Leary, who suffered third-degree burns on 40 percent of his body when the bomb went off in his lap, was moved from New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center to the prison ward at Bellevue Hospital on Friday. 
 Skin grafts have improved Mr. Leary's condition from critical to stable, said a New York Hospital spokeswoman, Kathy Robinson.
Mr. Leary, an unemployed computer expert, was one of 48 riders injured when the homemade gasoline bomb exploded on a subway train in the Fulton Street station in lower Manhattan.
The police said that the bomb went off prematurely in Mr. Leary's lap.
Mr. Leary's doctors concluded that his treatment could continue at Bellevue, where he joined nine other prisoners in the locked ward, said a Correction Department spokesman, Tom Kelly.
Mr. Leary, 49, of Scotch Plains, N.J., was arraigned at New York Hospital on Jan. 10, pleading innocent to attempted murder and other charges. The authorities have said the bombing was part of a scheme to extort money from New York City.
Six other people severely injured in the bombing remained in the burn unit, Ms. Robinson said. Reufield Edey, 60, burned over two-thirds of his body, remained in critical condition. The others were in serious or stable condition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK HOSPITAL (68%); BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS WOUND CARE (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BURN INJURIES (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PRISONS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); EXTORTION (73%); MURDER (73%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (56%); 

PERSON: LEARY, EDWARD J EDWARD J LEARY (92%); KATHY ROBINSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



153 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Don't Forget About American Coat Makers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It's somewhat unfair to view the layoff of 300 Ukrainian workers -- a result of curbs on Ukrainian coat exports -- as a way "to shield a relative handful" of coat makers in Maine and elsewhere ("In Ukraine, a Free-Market Lesson Learned Too Well," Jan. 1). American coat makers employ workers, too, and laid-off American workers can buy fewer products and may have to be supported by unemployment insurance or welfare. The country loses their contribution to our gross domestic product and has to support them. Sending American jobs abroad is one reason that real wages in America have fallen.
 
MARVIN H. SCILKEN
Manhattan, Jan. 2
 
The writer is a retired public librarian.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UKRAINE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE; UNITED STATES (97%); UKRAINE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



154 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: The Wrong Road to the Greening of America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Big Environment Hits a Recession" (Jan. 1) describes the recent falloff in memberships and finances of major environmental organizations that boomed in the 1980's. The writer quotes a report from the Center for the Study of American Business that cites a need to "trim down and stick to core competencies" as the best way to regain influence and check the decline -- a most unfortunate analysis that fails to recognize the primary reform that is required. 
 The critical challenge for these groups in the 1990's is to identify in the popular consciousness the concept of greening with jobs and profits. It is to articulate a vision that links the regeneration of the world's ecosystems with the long-term reanimation of the United States economy. It is to seriously and systematically pursue the direction that organized environmentalism briefly adopted before the 1992 Presidential campaign, and then dropped when the coming of a new Administration in Washington created the illusion that an old ethics-based, choose-nature-over-prosperity paradigm could be dusted off, repackaged and resold to the American public.
The backlash against environmentalism embodied in the Republicans' Contract With America is but the latest symptom of what happens when green groups continue to treat "the environment" as a means to launder the existing wealth of big contributors, rather than as a mechanism to generate new wealth for America as a whole. A curious aspect of present-day politics is that while most Americans recognize that strong environmental policies and good economics are not merely compatible but synonymous, representatives of major environmental organizations either ignore this concept or fail to promote it aggressively. Trimming and sticking to core competencies may make organized environmentalism trimmer and more competent, but not a whit more relevant.
 
MICHAEL SILVERSTEIN
Philadelphia, Jan. 1
 
The writer is the author of "The Environmental Economic Revolution," (St. Martin's Press, 1993).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; FINANCES ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ETHICS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



155 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Outside Pressures on the U.S. Inflation Rate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
One hopes Michael Marn's analysis of the factors reshaping economic realities in America ("Inflation: It's Not What It Used to Be," Viewpoints, Jan. 8) will catch the attention of the Federal Reserve and others who provide the micro impacts on our economy. 
 There is no question that the game has changed with respect to the forces affecting inflation. It's time to end the upward interest-rate spiral which, I believe, is doing more harm than good to the average citizen -- those who have to live in this economy.
While Mr. Marn provides a complete analysis of the domestic economic elements that have changed from the 70's and 80's, I don't believe he goes far enough. We must also come to grips with the fact that the American economy no longer exists in isolation, as Nafta and GATT attest.
Production capabilities have become more sophisticated worldwide, offering another extremely powerful control to inflationary pressures. There is no question that the ability of countries outside the Group of Seven to compete in an increasing number of consumer and industrial markets maintains a significant downward pressure on prices. The reality is that the world has become smaller -- and the sooner we understand it and learn to live within it, the better off we will all be.
 
H. DAVID ROSNER
Manhattan, Jan. 16
 
The writer is director of market research for Clark Boardman Callaghan, a legal publishing company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PUBLISHING (73%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: MARN, MICHAEL MICHAEL MARN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



156 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Other Crisis

 BODY:
The nation's capital -- Washington D.C. -- has a budget deficit equal to almost one-quarter of its whole budget. The rapidly worsening fiscal mess is a scandal, largely the result of years of lax management by mayors and City Councils. But it also reflects underlying political and economic forces that keep the city in the poorhouse.
 The first responsibility for a solution lies with Mayor Marion Barry and the Council. In that respect, the Mayor's emergency plan, announced Thursday, was disappointing. It put too much emphasis on the need for a Federal bailout while proposing too little in the way of new cutbacks. 
 Even so, the District's financial bind is so desperate that Congress must probably act, too -- with constructive help, not punishment. But the crisis should not be an excuse, as some critics threaten, to end the District's two-decade experiment with limited home rule.
 The District's plight is clear enough: a large and growing welfare and Medicaid population, a declining base of working taxpayers and constraints on its ability to raise its own revenues. But its political leaders made things worse by building one of urban America's most bloated and least efficient bureaucracies.
 When the current fiscal year began last Oct. 1 it appeared the budget would be $140 million in the red, and Congress told the District to start trimming. A month later the projected deficit had grown to $250 million, by late January it was $600 million, and last week Mayor Barry said it will reach $722 million -- in an overall budget of $3.2 billion.
 The escalation reflects recently discovered bills the District incurred but has not paid, especially for Medicaid. Mayor Barry and his predecessor, Sharon Pratt Kelly, blame each other. Either way, fiscal management has been sloppy in the extreme.
But the District operates on difficult terms. Unlike other troubled cities, it has no state government to help it absorb costly services like health care, welfare and education. It cannot even control its own revenues and expenditures. Congress approved a limited form of home rule for the District in the 1970's but kept budget control -- even though most spending is covered by local taxes that Washingtonians pay directly to the District. The District's taxing power is further hobbled by the vast presence of the Federal Government, foreign embassies and nonprofit institutions, all tax-exempt.
 Mayor Barry has now proposed spending cuts of some $200 million, and has asked Congress to cut the wages of city workers if their unions continue to balk at negotiating. He also wants Congress to pick up $267 million in immediate Medicaid costs. For the longer term, he proposes that the Federal Government take over Medicaid, mental health services, the local prison and courts, and the largest welfare program. He will have a hard time convincing Congress.
 Given the District's awkward status, as a vassal of Congress with no state government as a buffer, it will need Federal assistance of some kind now, maybe even Federal assumption of local poverty and Medicaid burdens. But there is a risk that Congress will demand still greater control of District affairs. It might be justified in creating a financial control board to keep watch on the District budget. But this crisis is not sufficient reason to strip the District of the limited home-rule powers it fought so hard to get.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FEDERAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY, MARION (MAYOR) MARION SHEPILOV BARRY JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



157 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Investors Drop Mexico and Woo Peru

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Now that Mexico is no longer the darling of Latin America among investment bankers, it is good to know that Peru is. Your Jan. 31 Business Day juxtaposition of "Peru: On the Very Fast Track" with "Plunge by Mexican Peso Jars U.S. Stocks" is ironic. The Wall Street analysts who were so bullish on Mexico right up until the peso plunged in December now reassure investors that "Peru keeps getting better and better." 
 True, economic growth of 12 percent last year was the world's highest, but off what base?
The answer is buried in the article: "From 1988 to 1992, the economy shrank by 25 percent -- more than the 21 percent growth it has recorded during the last two years." Between 1981 and 1988, the economy grew just 2.4 percent. Glowing forecasts are just forecasts.
You fail to mention Peru's current account deficit, the source of Mexico's problems. Receipts from privatization help offset this, but these are one-shot inflows that Peru will be unable to count on once the selloff of state companies runs its course. As in Mexico, foreign investment is helping sustain the balance of payments. So is portfolio investment.
But perhaps it is not such a good thing that "last year's surge of foreign investment -- largely American -- pushed the exchange index up 50 percent in dollar terms." If Mexico has illustrated anything, it is that an excessive reliance on foreign portfolio investment makes a country vulnerable to a quick crash.
Peru deserves enormous credit for aggressive privatization, deregulation of the economy, the taming of hyperinflation, huge improvement in domestic security and introduction of a private pension fund system. But investors should be wary. The problems of a country like Peru do not disappear in one presidential term.
 
HELEN M. CUNNINGHAM
New York, Jan. 31, 1995
 
The writer was an editor of Business Latin America, a newsletter, 1984-88.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; MEXICO; PERU (96%); MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



158 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: January 29 - February 3

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Is This What the Federal Reserve Was Waiting For?
That was quick. On Wednesday, in the most unsurprising event of the week, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates half a point, putting the Federal funds rate at exactly twice its level of a year ago (in the days of mortgage-refinancing bliss). And on Friday came news that January's unemployment rate had turned higher for the first time in over two years, to 5.7 percent from 5.4, with job growth at a weak 134,000. That's bad news for the jobless, of course, but it's just what the Fed wanted -- a too-strong economy means inflation. But even as the Fed clamped down over the past year, the unemployment rate headed stubbornly lower -- until that mirror image cracked last week. Needless to say, the stock market was giddy, with the Dow industrials rushing ahead by 57 points, its largest jump since summer, on the Big Board's sixth-busiest day ever. 

Balanced? Not Even Close
While the House was indulging in soft-focus visions of balanced budgets, the Administration had to come up with numbers. In a budget the President submits to Congress tomorrow -- if he has any sense, he'll drop it on the Capitol's doorstep and run -- Mr. Clinton proposes $ 81 billion in deficit cuts through 2000, but deficits still in the $ 190 billion range for a decade or so. It's hard to see how he could do otherwise -- much of the budget is, even on Republican terms, untouchable. The Contract With America calls for balance by 2002, but gives no recipe for that miracle.
 
Yes! Really! It's Opening!
What price progress? Let's see. In Denver, that snazzy new airport -- the one whose Space Age baggage system is said to treat suitcases with great disrespect -- will finally open this month after numerous delays, having cost $ 4.2 billion. For Denver, it can't come too soon -- it's paying $ 1 million a day in bond interest. But put it on a human scale: the new airport will put travelers fully 23 miles from downtown, and last week several airlines said a round trip to or from Denver would cost $ 40 more when the airport opens. And the infamous baggage system? For now a traditional system will move the bags. The automated system might, uh, be ready in a year or so.
 
Pataki's Tax-Cut Math
George Pataki faced a $ 5 billion budget gap, and was set on tax cuts; drastic measures were clearly called for. He did come up with something drastic last week: he became the first New York Governor in half a century to call for less spending than the year before -- $ 1.1 billion less. A billion is going right out in tax cuts -- a down payment in a four-year tax-slashing crusade -- and it soon became apparent that the spending cuts would hit the poor hard. There'll be reductions in everything from rent allowances to emergency cash for utility bills. In New Jersey, meanwhile, ripples of discontent surfaced about a flip side to tax cuts: cuts in school aid. You can't, it seems, have it both ways.
 
Sign of Good Banking Times
Sometimes things sneak up on you, the way you suddenly realize a headache has disappeared. That was the sense last week when the Government proposed slashing bank fees for deposit insurance -- by perhaps $ 5 billion a year. The message, of course: bank failures, once a regular ritual, barely happen now. If there's justice, that means bank customers will get a slightly better deal -- higher interest to earn, lower interest to pay. But what of savings and loan fees? Not yet, the F.D.I.C. said. Which means, of course, that the S.& L. industry will be at a distinct competitive disadvantage in attracting depositors.
 
If It Ain't Broke ...
It's an old theory: If it works, fix it. In that spirit, Detroit came up with a new way of giving report cards on itself. The result, chaos. Auto makers used to take two days to tally things up, then report sales on the month's third business day. Neat and consistent. But some of them decided to go to the first day, with the result, last week, that no one really knew what to make of these crucial figures -- too many asterisks, too many holes. Not till Friday -- the 3d -- did all become clear: growth continues, but it's slower.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Helping Mexico, Somehow
It was messy, but it looks as if Mexico will get help. First, President Clinton gave up on a wary Congress and just said he'd do it on his own, with emergency authority. The loans he promised came to just half the $ 40 billion he'd tried to get with Congress's seal of approval, but with more from other nations, that could hit $ 50 billion. It wasn't exactly neat getting the European allies to go along, though, for six nations -- Britain, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland -- balked at supporting the I.M.F.'s slice. The package was approved, but those nations wanted to vent their irritation that they'd had so little time to think it over. They clearly weren't sympathetic to Mr. Clinton's need for a decisive move.
 
A Benetton Backlash
Benetton has always had an odd way of selling clothes -- running ads with, say, a war cemetery or an oil-soaked bird. Yes, such ads fulfill a prime goal: they get attention. And in that time-honored equation, attention equals familiarity equals sales. Up to a point. That point may have been reached in Europe, especially in Germany, where protests against what critics call tasteless ads are creating a backlash that store owners say are cutting into sales. About 70 Benetton licensees met recently to discuss this, and a lawyer for one store owner called it "totally cynical" to use "human tragedy and suffering to sell clothes." Benetton says the stores are just blaming other problems on the ads.
 
Totally Private! (Usually)
Don't worry, the future-tech folks keep telling us -- all this fancy stuff we're throwing at you won't invade your privacy one iota. Take caller ID -- that miracle technology that broadcasts your number to friend and marketer alike. Totally safe, Nynex insisted. You can be protected if you wish. Right. Last week it turned out that up to 30,000 customers hadn't gotten the privacy they'd been promised. Nynex "botched it," said one privacy advocate. And who knows what other privacy lapses lurk out there, waiting to rear their all-too-public heads. (Are you safe from caller ID? Call Nynex at 800 634-2006.)
 
A Comeback That Wasn't
For William Agee, his career's blazing start was a tough act to follow. In 1977, not yet 40, he became one of the nation's youngest chief executives, guiding Bendix on a growth spree. But then came a failed takeover battle, and a controversy over his promotion of Mary Cunningham, later his wife. After the dust settled, and Bendix was swallowed by Allied, the couple lowered their profile, running a venture firm from Cape Cod. But in 1988, Mr. Agee seemed back on track, taking over at Morrison Knudsen, in his home state of Idaho. The smell of turnaround was in the air, but it never came. Last week Morrison said Mr. Agee, now 57, would retire.
 
Ben & Jerry & ... Not You
Hmmm. President of Ben & Jerry's. The warm glow of running a "socially responsible" company. (Plus, no doubt, all the designer ice cream you could eat.) Sounded tempting to 20,000 or so hopeful souls, who responded to an invitation to demonstrate, in 100 yummy words, why they had the right stuff. Bad news, folks. The job's been filled. Last week Ben & Jerry's, whose ice cream provides 107.2 percent of your daily recommended allowance of guilt, named the winner: Robert Holland Jr., once a McKinsey turnaround consultant. Yes, one finalist did come in the mail. Close, but no Cherry Garcia -- which happens to be one of Mr. Holland's favorites. (What would you expect him to say -- Haagen-Dazs's rum raisin?)
 
Passing 'Go' in Style
Alan Greenspan has to love Monopoly. Yes, yes, the game's an ode to capitalism, but here's its real glory: No inflation! After 60 years, Boardwalk is still $ 400. (Even in the New York edition, in which Boardwalk has mutated into Trump Tower, the bargain price stands.) Surely such a game -- 160 million copies sold -- deserves a party. So to mark its 60th anniversary, Rich Uncle Pennybags, the game's top-hatted mascot, will ring the opening bell at the American Stock Exchange on Tuesday, surrounded by traders in top hats. Think that's silly? You can go directly to jail. (Do not, of course, pass Go.)

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Business Diary column last Sunday about the new Denver airport misstated the status of the automated baggage system. When the airport opens on Feb. 28, the system will be used for all outbound United Airlines flights, roughly 60 percent of all outbound flights. The other outbound flights, and all the inbound flights, will use a traditional system.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Holland with Jerry Greenfield. (Associated Press )
 
Graphs showing the federal funds rate and unemployment rate from Jan. 1994 to Feb. 1995 (Source: Associated Press, Datastream) the President's 1996 budget proposal (Source: Office of Management and Budget) and New York State spending from 1987 to 1995. (Source: New York State Division of the Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIRPORTS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TAX LAW (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); AIRLINES (62%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (57%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



159 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1992 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
A Silk Blouse on the Assembly Line? (Yes, the Boss's)

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS 

DATELINE: AVON LAKE, Ohio

 BODY:
Deborah S. Kent remembers well her first day on the job.
There she was, standing at the entrance of the Ford assembly plant here, awed by the cavernous 3.3 million-square-foot building sitting on 419 neatly manicured acres. 
 She'd conquered an attack of first-day jitters -- "You know, that I'd get lost on the way or leave the keys to the office at home" -- and actually arrived several minutes early, only to find herself momentarily paralyzed at the front door.
She was still standing there when a man in orange coveralls walked up from behind. "You must be the new plant manager," he said. She was indeed -- though she recalls wondering how he'd figured that out, since no photographs of her had been published in the newspapers or company bulletins.
"Here, I'll open the door and you just come on in," he told her. "Everything is going to be fine."
Ms. Kent saw it as a good omen. She hasn't seen him since, but when she does she wants to thank him for the friendly encouragement.
A petite woman, she seems out of place walking the assembly line in her horn-rimmed glasses, tiny pearl earrings, white silk blouse, mint-green wool slacks and flat suede and leather shoes. A white-collar woman in a brawny blue-collar man's world.
In September, at age 41, Ms. Kent became the first woman to head a vehicle assembly plant at the Ford Motor Company, and the only African-American woman ever to rise to that post. Her duties include managing two shifts with a total of 3,746 workers, as well as 420 robots, and overseeing the annual production of 216,035 Ford Econoline vans and 115,184 Mercury Villager and Nissan Quest mini-vans at a pace of up to 56 vehicles an hour on an assembly line that stretches 19.5 miles. The plant, the third largest of the company's 38 United States facilities, is the only one to manufacture those models.
Armed with a master's degree in industrial psychology from Washington University in St. Louis, Ms. Kent is part of a new auto industry generation. The industry had lost its competitive edge and its reputation for quality to foreign auto makers, and this new generation is determined not to repeat the mistakes that allowed that to happen. An avid reader, she enjoys talking to the press, and speaks an energetic mixture of Ford phrasing and maternal wisdom. Her conversations are peppered with words like "quality" and "competitive edge."
"The best thing that ever happened to this industry was competition," said Ms. Kent. "We can't ever again become complacent about any indicators, not quality, not costs, not our customers."
ARTICULATING her visions of the job, she said: "It does no good to have a diverse work force if you don't listen to their opinions and thoughts. I treat people the way I want to be treated. You give me your overall guidelines, give me a minute or two to get the systems in place, to meet the guidelines, and I'll meet my objectives. I don't have to be constantly reminded or quizzed about them."
Although she is still furnishing her new apartment, a few minutes' drive from the plant, she has managed to fit comfortably into this noisy, physical, sweat-stained universe. Already, she has become an energizing influence among peers and subordinates as well, employing an administrative style that embraces W. Edwards Deming's corporate philosophy for improving product quality: "Do it right the first time" and "Don't treat employees as adversaries."
"When I talk to my area managers, I say, 'Give me some feedback and some eye contact,'" Ms. Kent said. "Don't look away from me and say, 'O.K. we have to do this because she says so.' Let's talk about it. If I had all the answers, surely I'd be someplace on high, so when I call you into my office, I'm looking for feedback."
Daniel J. Jowiski, body and assembly operations manager for the Econoline vans, quickly came to appreciate Ms. Kent's style. "She's open to our opinions, and she's accessible," said Mr. Jowiski, who has worked at Ford since 1984 and came to Avon Lake in 1988. "Nobody looks at it as if, 'She's a woman, can she do the job?' It's: 'She's the manager, so she can do the job.'"
Dave Gorman, Ford's vehicle operations manager and Ms. Kent's boss, said that when she was hired seven years ago, "three things stood out about her: she was a female, she had great people skills and she worked in production." He added: "We were extremely impressed with her floor savvy, and she had come from a plant that had a reputation as being difficult to run and she had been good at it."
Mr. Gorman said he only wished there were more Deborah Kents working their way up the assembly line.
"Unfortunately it is difficult to get women to go into manufacturing and to stay in it long enough to succeed," he said. "I wish we knew why that was. But Deborah has had the tenacity. She's a tough lady."
Her straightforwardness seems genuinely appreciated by the United Auto Workers, whose members have always stood out for their toughness and tenacity. After all, this delicate-looking executive with her college degrees and nonunion, salaried position hasn't exactly reached her spacious, carpeted office with the window view by toeing the line in assembly, a windowless bay where one's skills require precision of hand, reliability and old-fashioned teamwork.
"The first thing she did on the first day was to have us walk her through the line," recalled Jesus Schnierle, an 11-year Ford veteran who had arrived at the Ohio plant only a few months before his new boss. "She told us that the only way to know the operation was to watch the process from beginning to end. To learn from the workers down here who do the job."
Lest anyone be mistaken, in no way is Ms. Kent some innocent when it comes to looking under the hood. She has spent more than 17 years in the automobile industry, first with General Motors, then Ford, learning every phase of the job, from manufacturing and quality control to customer satisfaction -- and working her way up without mentor or affirmative-action preferences, thank you.
"One of the first things I did when I arrived here was to hold a meeting with the area managers," she recalled. "I said, 'Let's assume you guys know I got this job because of my competency and proven successes with this company and you're just as happy to have me here as I am to be here, and I won't ever think anything other than that."
The third of nine children, Ms. Kent was raised in St. Louis, but still speaks in slow cadences that reflect her parents' Mississippi roots. She says she got a toughness from her father, Leodas Stewart, a laborer, while her mother, Earline, a housewife, gave her a sense of quiet confidence. Both raised her to believe in her God-given instincts, which serve her well in a job that often calls for spur-of-the-moment decisions with millions of dollars weighing in the balance.
On a recent day, which began at 7:30 a.m. with a review of the night shift's production report and was followed by a walk through the assembly plant, Ms. Kent managed to carry on two to three conversations at once -- one on the telephone, another with a visitor, a third with her secretary -- without losing her train of thought.
But one beep on her pager stopped her in her tracks. A crisis in assembly! How will the new plant manager handle this one?
Workers in Area A were out of alternator belts for the Villagers. Should they stop production and wait for the part or continue production and install the part later? If they waited, production would have to shut down until the part arrived, and that could be a while.
"I've got all these people standing around looking at me like, 'O.K. you're the plant manager. Make a decision,'" Ms. Kent recalled with a smile.
That decision was to send everybody to lunch early and bring the part in by helicopter. Lunch ended at 10:30. The part arrived at 10:23.
The decision was as much a crap shoot as one driven by chance, she later acknowledged. "I can't tell the staff one day that quality is our No. 1 priority," she said, "then say, 'Don't worry about that part, just keep building those cars and we'll put the part on later,' because there was a potential customer concern that would result from that decision.
"When you have to make a pivotal decision," she went on, "that's when the organization looks to see what kind of a leader they got. Does she walk like she talks?"
Ms. Kent does not think that race or her being a woman were necessarily factors in her selection. And she will not allow her status as a "pioneer" to place an additional burden on her round shoulders.
"That would mean I would be second-guessing myself on every decision based on risks," she explained. "I focus on my role as plant manager. I can't help the fact that I'm a black, woman plant manager. I have to make the kinds of decisions based on what my job requires and people can interpret it how they will in terms of race and gender."
HER promotion hasn't come without its sacrifices, however.
A mother of two daughters, Jessica, 14, and Joy, 12, Ms. Kent, who declined to discuss her marital status, decided not to uproot her children from the Detroit community they have called home for close to seven years -- a decision shared by her daughters. She sees them only on weekends and holidays. During the week they are cared for by a nanny, a longtime family friend, and Ms. Kent speaks with them on the phone daily, after homework.
Do they understand the significance of their mother's achievement?
"You know, I really don't know," said Ms. Kent. "They've never said anything about it. That's an interesting question."
It seems odd that she hadn't noticed, for Ms. Kent is as meticulous about details as she is about appearances. On her way through the assembly plant, she will stop to pick up a scrap of paper on an otherwise spotless floor, and gives a once-over to trays of neatly stacked engines.
"It's important not only from an appearance but safety standpoint that parts are stacked orderly and in appropriate places," she explained.
Like a sergeant inspecting the barracks, she walks down the long rows of newly assembled cars, scrutinizing every inch -- inside and out -- to see if they pass muster.
"I'm looking at the metal finish, paint, looking for any streaking, interior trim, and the fit, meaning the margin of gap between points on the vehicle," she said as she moved down the line to the next vehicle. "We measure 42 different points on the car. If we find anything out of spec, we contact the area manager to have it corrected."
And her dedication, apparently, doesn't stop at the plant door. She has been known to approach strangers driving Villagers or Quests and ask their opinion of the car. Once, when she saw a Villager stopped alongside the road, she pulled over to see what the problem was, taking heart that it was merely out of fuel.
"I feel this sense of ownership, responsibility and pride about every Econoline, Villager and Quest on the road," she said. "Particularly since I know we're the only manufacturing plant producing those vehicles. And if something's wrong, I want to know about it.
"Our challenge is to give the customer what they like -- up to the millimeter of the vehicle -- and improve on the things they don't like," she added. "That's the fascinating part about this job."
 
Deborah S. Kent
 
Born: March 10, 1953; St. Louis.
 
 Drives: What else? Mercury Villager and Ford Explorer.
 
 Recent reading: "Zap! The Lightning of Empowerment," by William C. Byham with Jeff Cox. And "Brothers and Sisters" by Bebe Moore Campbell.
 
 A childhood lesson: "If you wanted to have a true falling out with my parents, all you had to say was, 'I did it because so-and-so told me to.'"
 
 Quiet time: "I get up and organize my day between 2 and 4 a.m. I take a nap around 4 a.m. and awaken at 6. By the time I get to the office, I'm ready to go." Without coffee, too.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 5, about Deborah S. Kent, the first woman to head a vehicle assembly plant at the Ford Motor Company, misstated the given name of one of her daughters. She is Jordan, not Joy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deborah S. Kent oversees Econoline and Villager production as Ford's plant manager in Avon Lake, Ohio. (Janet Century for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (73%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; WOMEN; BLACKS MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RACE & RACISM (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); MINIVANS (67%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA; KENT, DEBORAH S DEBORAH S KENT (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



160 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
An Expanding Base For Hartford Action

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
IF Hartford does not strike anyone as a city meant for theater, perhaps it's time for reconsideration.
And we aren't just talking Hartford Stage, which is in the middle of a banner season, or The Bushnell, where megashows and big-time musicals pass through. Next week, for example, Carol Channing will appear in the latest "Hello, Dolly!" tour. 
 TheaterWorks, too, a modest professional company is in boom time. "We own the building," reads the announcement being distributed to audiences. Though major fund-raising from individuals, corporations, foundations and state grants is ongoing, the purchase by TheaterWorks, now in its ninth year, is effectively an offering of rehearsal and office space to small arts organizations.
Company One has found administrative asylum upstairs in TheaterWorks' art deco home at 233 Pearl Street and a performing sanctuary at the Cathedral Theater a few blocks away at 45 Church Street, across from Hartford Stage. The surcease from the nomadic life came "after looking all over town for space," as the company's managing director, Wendee Greene, put it.
Company One's new lease on life is reflective of what appears to be a newly vital theater consciousness in Hartford.
The enterprising company, which has boldly produced plays about porpoises and film noir, not to mention an opera by Gertrude Stein, is recovering from economic constriction and a budget cut from $250,000 in 1992-93 to $97,000 for the current curtailed season. It is now putting on its sole full 1994-95 production, "Women in the Kitchen."
The trimmed budget also allows for 20 rehearsed script-in-hand readings of contemporary plays at lunchtime in a series known as Play With Your Food, which is just how Company One began 11 years ago.
"Bringing us back to our developmental beginnings can make us fiscally sound and assure that we serve our mission of producing new works," Ms. Greene said. Readings are held on the second and fourth Fridays of each month at 12:30. The number for more information is 233-4588.
With frugality, minimalism and expanded exposure in mind, "Women in the Kitchen" is conceived and packaged to tour. "We can pack our kitchen installation into a truck and fit it into most spaces," said Maxine Kern, the artistic director of Company One.
Next week the show will play at the performing space in the now-closed G. Fox department store. It is a five-part program by black writers consisting of two one-act plays, "Casualties" by Allison West and "Poof" by Lynn Nottage, as well as a solo performance piece, "Black Bitches Brew," in three sections, by Jake-ann Jones.
In "Casualties," two grandmothers are sitting in the kitchen, talking about the lives they sacrificed for children who now perceive them as ignorant, yet asserting that they are not victims.
"Poof" is a surreal comedy about a physically abused woman who musters the courage for verbal revenge on her unseen husband. He goes poof -- a case of spontaneous combustion, leaving a huge pile of smoking ashes in the middle of the kitchen. "It is a magical dispelling of abuse," in the words of Ms. Kern. What to do with the man's ashes is the concern of the wife and her neighbor upstairs.
The interweaving performance piece by Ms. Jones is a narrative poem wherein the kitchen, a sacred place, a power place, is perceived as metaphor for woman's contemporary search and ancestral connections. "My mother's kitchen is not my own" is the piece's recurring refrain.
Sarah Edkins's set design is of a real kitchen equipped with a refrigerator and a stove on which a stew is cooking. It is set against a collage of photographs by Phillip Fortune depicting children in a nearby housing project as well as painted images of classical and contemporary black women.
"We're committed not to social consciousness alone but to new plays and new forms that address the contemporary life concerns of underserved voices of artists and audiences. So it's not a mistake that we're featuring women African-American playwrights," Ms. Kern said.
Ms. Greene added, "I've been in Hartford five years now, and I see people on the downtown streets in the evening. For the past few years, there were none. It's a resurgence, a revitalization."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Jake-ann Jones, Carla Dean and Frances McAlpiine Sharp at Company One in Hartford. (Thomas Giroir Photography)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMPANY ONE (HARTFORD, CONN) G FOX (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPANY ONE (HARTFORD, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER MUSICAL THEATER (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); FILM (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CHILDREN (73%); FILM GENRES (72%); BUDGETS (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); WRITERS (63%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN MAXINE KERN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



161 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: City vs. County Over Protection Of Watershed

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
PROPOSED rules intended to protect the quality of New York City's drinking water in the Catskill, Delaware and Croton watersheds -- and help the city avoid an expense estimated at $2 billion to $8 billion to build a chemical filtration system mandated by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency -- have drawn criticism from a coalition of municipal supervisors in the northern part of the county and some county leaders.
The coalition includes the leaders of North Salem, Bedford, Pound Ridge, Lewisboro, Somers, Yorktown, New Castle, North Castle, Mount Kisco, Harrison, Mount Pleasant and Cortlandt. 
 "A number of folks have gotten the impression that Westchester and some municipalities are opposed to the regulations," said Patricia Lynn Oliva, who is the county's Planning Commissioner. "That is untrue," she added. "We are in favor of 98 percent of the regulations. But there are certain areas, like septics and diversion to sewage treatment plants, where we would like to see some flexibility. Because the Croton watershed is going to be filtered, we think there can be some exceptions to the regulations.
"Filtration avoidance has nothing to do with Westchester County. The issue boils down to a nonresponse from New York City. The city's position has been, 'Let's have regulations promulgated, and then we will talk about flexibility.' "
The city's water supply system covers about 2,000 square miles on both sides of the Hudson. About 900,000 county residents receive their water from the city's supply, with most of that water coming from the Catskill and Delaware systems. About 230,000 Westchester residents live within the Croton watershed.
Of particular concern to the coalition of municipal supervisors who will be most directly affected by the proposed regulations is the specter of the city's long bureaucratic arm hovering over local decisions.
"It's a classic home-rule issue," said William C. Harding, Town Supervisor of Somers. "Anytime there is a regulatory overlay, it reduces the power of local government's ability to govern, and it reduces our ability to make our own decisions. The most obvious is the economic impact of the regulations. We need to have the ability to grow and develop sanely. We need to provide for land use that in turn provides for a well-planned growth rate."
As an example of how the proposed regulations would affect homeowners, Mr. Harding said, the city has reserved the right to have its inspectors supervise and sign off on individual sewage and septic installations and repairs, a regulatory function that is already handled by town inspectors.
"We don't need another layer of government," Ms. Oliva said. "The closest government is the one that should do it."
But not everyone has reservations about the city's regulations. "In December I called for the county to support New York City's regulations without reservation," said Thomas J. Abinanti, a Democratic County Legislator who represents Greenburgh. "About 85 percent of Westchester's population is served by New York City water. If New York City is not successful in preserving water quality, then we in the county will have to build a filtration plant.
"Why should we take what is some of the cleanest drinking water in the world, let it get polluted and then spend billions of dollars to make it drinkable? Why did we allow such great drinking water to go down the drain? We ought to be siding with the people of this county, not the developers who will make a profit."
What is particularly frustrating for these north county supervisors is the city's apparent inability to distinguish between their concerns and those of the watershed municipalities on the west side of the Hudson.
"No one is a growth freak," Mr. Harding said. "We are pro open space, pro quality of life issues. Somers is very environmentally oriented. We have local wetlands regulations now. I find myself in a very difficult position. I agree with all of the city's conceptual thrusts. Environmental protection is very important to us, and this will go a long way to protect our drinking water supply. But with the functional particulars of enforcing these regulations, it may be impossible or such a burden that I don't know where to come down."
Ms. Oliva said: "Westchester has sophisticated planning and engineering techniques. There is strong environmental awareness on town planning boards. It's very different here."
The city's sluggish response to the county's concerns has also created problems. Ms. Oliva said, "The county and north county municipalities voluntarily came together more than a year ago not to pursue litigation" against the city.
"We have always felt we have had more to gain by collaborating rather than opposing," she continued. "Last February we submitted to the city our proposals for watershed-protection planning and requested that the city enter into the planning process with us. Until recently, the city has totally ignored it. We kept pushing, and two weeks ago, we got a response that eviscerated what we had proposed."
By the end of January, however, County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had met and agreed to set up a subsequent meeting to discuss the issue.
Still, the drawn-out process has frustrated those who originally pursued a strategy of cooperation with the city. Mr. Harding said: "We are trying to achieve some closure on this. Because of the lack of movement, the specter of litigation looms larger and larger as the weeks pass."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York City's water supply system covers about 2,000 square miles on both sides of the Hudson River. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; WATER POLLUTION AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI PATRICIA LYNN OLIVA (71%); WILLIAM C HARDING (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



162 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 8; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: County Initiatives Gain Social Service Spotlight

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH much of the state and national spotlight has focused on Westchester's success with its workfare program as a means of achieving welfare reform, there are other elements of the county's social services initiatives that are being studied as potential models.
A program known as Front-End Detection, which has been in operation for the last five years, was intended to screen more effectively applications for public assistance. Under this program, social service field investigators assess applicants' actual need for assistance, as part of an overall effort to reduce possible fraud. Existing Home Relief cases are also investigated regularly to determine continuing need. 
 In a related effort, the county's Social Services Department also runs computer matches of its recipient files with other databases, like Internal Revenue Service and unemployment, to determine other sources of income. "This computer system acts in an efficient way so that all incomes are fully accounted for," said Joseph Hogan, deputy commissioner of the county's Social Services Department.
To help women move away from public assistance, the county has also been running a program known as MOMS (Mothers on the Move) for the last few years. Women who are receiving Aid to Dependent Children are eligible to enroll in this two-year college program. Courses are offered at Westchester Community College in Valhalla and the Pace University campus in White Plains. Program participants take classes in specifically targeted marketable areas, like computer and medical technician skills, and are given follow-up placement counseling to find jobs. "Significant numbers of these women are now working and are off welfare," Mr. Hogan said.
Through the use of more specialized residences for homeless families, which provide those families with counseling, training and other services, the county has been able to reduce its spending in this area, to $46.3 million last year from $60.3 million in 1990.
And as an example of the county's continuing effort to make the delivery of social services more efficient and economical, the county recently opened a one-stop district office in Yonkers, where the city's 14,000 clients can receive all services. MERRI ROSENBERG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WOMEN INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI JOSEPH HOGAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



163 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: How The County's Workfare Set a Trend

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
TWO years ago, William Howard, 35, was out of work and as he describes it, "down on my luck," barely getting by from one month to the next on a welfare check. He has since obtained a driver's license, landed a full-time job and become the father of a son who is now 3 months old.
Similarly, Agnes DiRenzo, 55, was unemployed with few prospects until recently, unable to pay her bills and afraid she would lose her small apartment, the only home she has known for more than 30 years. 
 Mrs. DiRenzo and Mr. Howard, both Yonkers residents, were on Westchester's welfare rolls in the Home Relief program for single adults. Able-bodied and under 60, they are among 7,600 or so people in the last seven years who have been required to work 20 hours a week in exchange for welfare benefits under the county's Pride in Work Program -- an innovative workfare plan initiated in 1988, which is now serving as a model for Albany and Washington.
The debate has been growing in recent months at the local and national levels about whether welfare should remain an entitlement program. Currently, any person who meets Federal eligibility guidelines can qualify for cash assistance in most states.
There has been a shift away from strict entitlement programs, although wide differences of opinion remain on how best to serve the poor. Some government leaders favor workfare solutions, which, like the Westchester model, require able-bodied participants to earn their keep. Others advocate finding solutions to some of the causes of poverty -- teen-age pregnancy and fathers who fail to pay child support, for example.
Despite their differences, there is a consensus among conservatives and many liberals that the current welfare system is no longer working and needs to be redesigned because it is too expensive, unwieldy and often abused by those for whom it was intended.
"Generally across the country there is a very big dissatisfaction with welfare as we know it," said Westchester's Commissioner of Social Services, Mary E. Glass, the architect of the county's Pride in Work Program. "It is a major item now on the national agenda."
Ms. Glass has been hired by Gov. George E. Pataki, on a 90-day assignment, to help revamp the state's welfare system. The Governor on Monday proposed dramatic changes to that system, calling for, among other things, broad requirements for work. Under Mr. Pataki's proposal -- which also tightens eligibility requirements and reduces many cash benefits -- about half of those receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children would be required to work.
In Westchester, single mothers receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children are not required to work, and Ms. Glass said the state would limit its workfare requirement to families with school-age children. She said that it would be too costly to provide child-care assistance for welfare mothers with young children.
The state spent $1.29 billion on Home Relief to aid 311,000 single and childless adults in 1993, and $2.78 billion for 1.2 million people receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children. Home Relief recipients receive an average of $350 a month plus Medicaid; the average monthly benefit to families on welfare is $577.
Mr. Pataki said his proposals could save the state $343 million in the fiscal year, which starts April 1, and $589 the next fiscal year.
Nationally, it is estimated that $22.8 billion is spent by the Federal Government and the states for cash benefits to 14 million poor people.
In Westchester, where there are 12,884 people receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children and 6,221 receiving Home Relief, the county budgeted $169.6 million for welfare costs this year. Under the Westchester Pride in Work Program -- which was designed by Ms. Glass along with County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke -- employable applicants for Home Relief Aid are required to work 20 hours a week in a government office or nonprofit establishment in exchange for their benefits. They are assigned to a variety of tasks, including removing graffiti, painting park benches, picking up trash and filing documents.
Mr. O'Rourke said he was inspired by his own experiences to develop a workfare plan. His mother, a widow, was blind and received welfare although she worked whenever possible and taught her five children to do the same.
The Westchester program waives the work requirement only if it can be medically verified that a Home Relief applicant is ill or disabled. But prompt medical treatment, paid for through Medicaid if necessary, is required to help remedy the problem. Likewise, drug and alcohol abusers who are temporarily unable to hold a job are required to receive treatment.
Those who are found to be permanently disabled are often eligible for Supplemental Security Income benefits, which in turn represents a savings for the county.
Joseph Hogan, Deputy Commissioner of Social Services, said the county saved $50 million from 1989 to 1994 on Home Relief benefits, because those welfare rolls grew by only 0.8 percent over that period. The county does not have cumulative numbers for those receiving Home Relief.
Mr. Hogan, in describing the strict standards of the Pride in Work program, said: "This is a two-way street. A person has a responsibility that they must fulfill, and we will fulfill our end."
Since the program's inception, 15,982 home relief cases have been closed because recipients failed to meet attendance or performance requirements, and 60 percent never reapplied. The department said some clients probably found employment, but others may have been deterred by the work requirements.
"In any case, there were those that we never heard from again," Mr. Hogan said.
Last year about 13 percent of the 6,700 people on Home Relief were eligible for the Pride in Work program. Others were considered too old, sick, addicted or incapacitated to manage a job, and the homeless were not included because it would be difficult to monitor them.
While some critics of the program cite its limited scope, the Department of Social Services says its success stories speak for themselves.
Consider the case of Mr. Howard. When he applied for Home Relief, he was assigned to the Yonkers Animal Shelter, where he cleaned cages and assisted with the animals' care. Once he received his driver's license and was able to go out to pick up strays, he was offered a full-time job at $19,000 a year.
Now off the welfare rolls, he says he sleeps more soundly and looks forward "to giving my son a life." Mr. Howard is the custodial parent for his infant son.
Mrs. DiRenzo also found full-time employment through the Pride in Work program. The Department of Social Services first assigned her to the Yonkers Community Health Center to perform clerical duties. She has since become a supervisor of records there and earns $16,000 a year, which is "not that much," she said, "but I keep my head above water."
The county has also introduced a fraud-detection program, which sends investigators on unscheduled field visits to check out all Home Relief clients, unlike other counties that only conduct spot checks. The county spent $1.7 million from December 1993 to November 1994 to pay for 38 investigators and closed 1,925 cases out of 8,377 at a saving of $9.4 million, Mr. Hogan said.
Investigators found that some recipients did not live where they said they did, had income they had not revealed or were receiving other benefits, like Supplemental Security Income.
In all programs over five years, the county says that it has closed 18,911 cases and saved $63 million by reforming the welfare system.
But despite Westchester's apparent successes, Rachel Leon, a spokeswoman for the Hunger Action Network of New York State, a nonprofit advocacy group for welfare recipients, said the county had "one of the worst track records."
A report by the organization cites the Westchester Department of Social Services for problems in a variety of areas, including, among other things, not providing adequate transitional child care and failing to treat clients with dignity and respect.
And Representative Nita M. Lowey, a Democrat from Harrison, said that in general she was skeptical about "all the rhetoric and simplistic answers" lately on welfare reform.
"I want to know how these programs affect people's lives," said Mrs. Lowey, who is chairwoman of the Congressional Caucus on Women's Issues. "To talk glibly about cutting back when those programs will severely punish children will not work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agnes DiRenzo found a full-time job at the Yonkers Community Health Center. She is now a $16,000-a-year supervisor. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DEPENDENT CHILDREN HOME RELIEF (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPENDENT CHILDREN HOME RELIEF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (89%); FAMILY (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); 

PERSON: DIRENZO, AGNES; HOWARD, WILLIAM; BRENNER, ELSA MARY E GLASS (73%); GEORGE E PATAKI (60%); WILLIAM HOWARD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



164 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Baymen Rejoice As Sweet Bay Scallops Return

BYLINE: By MARY CUMMINGS 

 BODY:
AFTER lean times that lasted almost 10 years,East End baymen are celebrating a bountiful harvest of bay scallops.
"Incredible" is a word that comes up when baymen and others in the seafood business speak about the season that opened in October and runs through the end of next month. 
 Before 1985, when the algae blooms known as the brown tide infested East End waters, the small sweet bay scallop -- a delicacy prized not just locally but also in fancy restaurants in Manhattan and beyond -- was a mainstay for baymen, the fishermen who make their living off the fertile breeding grounds of Long Island waters.
Harvests fluctuated from year to year, but demand always seemed to outpace supply, and baymen traditionally dropped everything to go scalloping, at least in the early weeks of the season.
At the height of the brown tide in 1986 scientists found concentrations of the microscopic plant that makes up brown tide as high as 2.5 million cells a milliliter, or 10 times the level at which scientists believe other marine life begins to suffer. The condition turned waters a coffee brown and crowded out or suffocated other marine organisms. Thousands of acres of eelgrass, an important habitat for juvenile fin fish and shellfish, died when the blooms blocked out sunlight.
When the brown tide did not appear in 1988 members of Green Seal, an umbrella organization of baymen's associations, started to plant a million quarter-size seed scallops from Fishers Island in waters off Orient Point, Hallock's Bay and Northwest Harbor.
But a series of disasters stymied the efforts to restock the waters. In the first year, the scallops starved to death, the brown tide wiping out the algae and plankton they eat as well as the eelgrass in which they nest. Next predatory starfish and spider crabs ate the winter seedlings. Then some juvenile, or immature, scallops disappeared. Weeks later they were found about a mile away.
Bay scallops were once as synonymous with Long Island as ducks and potatoes, constituting an industry of $1.5 million to $2 million a year to the baymen. To counter the tide, organizations and government agencies undertook a variety of reseeding efforts.
Seedings began in 1986, with the shipment of Long Island scallops to Maine for spawning. The "bugs" were then sent to Fishers Island, where they grew until mature enough to be reseeded in the Flanders Bay-Peconic Bay system. The State Urban Development Corporation and Environmental Conservation Department, with Suffolk County, financed the project, providing more than $200,000 over a four-year period.
A marine specialist with the Cornell Cooperative Extension Suffolk County office in Riverhead, Christopher Smith, said another reseeding program, which concentrated on the western Peconic area, received Federal financing through the Peconic Estuary Program after the Peconics' acceptance into the National Estuary program in 1992. Initially financed with $50,000, that program has been given an additional $76,000 for more seeding and research.
When the brown tide spread through the bays, the baymen stopped scalloping.
"The scallops disappeared in one year," said Ed Warner Jr. one of the few baymen who continue to work full time.
"In 1986 there was probably not a live scallop anywhere in the bay," added Mr. Warner, who learned his trade on Shinnecock Bay from his grandfather and father.
Mr. Warner, who has a degree in marine technology from Suffolk Community College, said he was on the water year-round, "from sunrise to sunset most days." He continued to harvest scallops in Shinnecock Bay at the end of last month, although the supply was nowhere near what it had been in October.
He estimated that in the course of the season 1,000 of the 30-inch-wide scallop dredges that baymen drag from their boats had been back and forth over the bottom. Of all the bays, Shinnecock was perhaps the most bountiful when the season opened.
"The first couple of days you just shoved them into the basket," Mr. Warner said. "That is when it was good. Now you pick through the mud."
Nearly four months into the season, on a winter morning that dawned with snow flurries, Mr. Warner was on the water again, sorting through the eelgrass, mud, rocks and shells that each of his 10 dredges brought up from the bottom.
Moving quickly, he picked out four or five mature scallops from each load, pitched the debris overboard and heaved the dredge back into the water. Any immature scallops in the mix were returned to the bay, which was otherwise perfectly still. Mr. Warner appeared to have the waters all to himself.
"Any time in the first weeks there would have been 50 other boats," he said. Back then, he said, the daily limit of 10 bushels a bayman. or 20 bushels a boat, could be harvested in a few hours.
His goal that day was to fill his bushel basket three times, he said, a harvest that he was counting on to net him $150. He estimated that his 22-foot craft, the Privateer, would consume 30 gallons of fuel plus two quarts of oil, narrowing his profit margin.
Jon Semlear, a bayman and Southampton Town trustee, said fishermen were receiving $7 a pound for scallops at the end of January. Earlier, when the harvest was at its peak, the price had dropped, to $4.50.
The owner of Cor-J Seafood in Hampton Bays, Jim Coronesi, said a bushel of scallops might yield as few as three or four pounds of meat or as much as 10 pounds. He said that his wholesale price in late January stood at $8.50 a pound and that scallops were retailing for about $10. The wholesale price had dropped as low as $5.50 when they were at their most plentiful.
Back then, consumers who had seen prices soar to almost $20 a pound in previous years were feasting after the famine. They were paying $6.50 a pound.
This season was "the best we have seen in probably 15 years, especially in Shinnecock," said Mr. Coronesi.
Southampton, in general, did especially well, according to Mr. Semlear. Supervisor Hudson B. (Hoot) Sherman of Shelter Island also reported an exceptional season, noting that scallops were not only plentiful in local waters, but were also bigger than usual.
In Southold, Bay Constable Donald Dzenkowski called it a banner year for scallops.
A trustee of East Hampton, James McCaffrey, sounded a lone slightly negative note. Mr. McCaffrey said that "state waters were very good," but suggested that the yield from town waters had been disappointing.
State waters generally open a few weeks before the creek areas and interior harbors, which the towns have controlled since the colonial era.
Mr. Dzenkowski said the improvement in his area had been gradual, though this year's yield was "a lot more than expected."
The towns' seeding programs are often cited as contributing to the recovery. This year, a trustee of Southampton, Scott Strough, the trustees are planning to place one million seed scallops in town waters at a cost of $25,000.
East Hampton operates a a hatchery to provide seed clams and oysters, as well as scallops.
Seeding, by all accounts, improves the odds considerably. But Mr. Warner said luck also played a major role in producing the bumper crop. Not only were there no signs of the brown tide, but the infestation that drastically reduced the scallop population after 1985 apparently killed its predators, as well.
"The scallops are back, but not the predators," he said. "And there is eelgrass. Mother Nature treated us well."
Scallops nest in eelgrass, which helps keep them off the bottom and hidden from predators.
Because the causes of the brown tide remain largely unknown, no one can say if and when it might return. Moreover, seeding scallops "is not like a farmer's planting potatoes," Mr. Warner said. The larvae, which float in the water for 14 days before developing, "can end up anywhere on the Island," he said. The weather at the time of spawning can also significantly affect the scallops.
Despite the seeding, Mr. Warner said, he is concerned about the next season. He said he had not spotted enough babies this year to indicate a good crop of mature scallops in October.
Mr. Semlear agreed, saying: "Next year we're not going to have that many." Seeding "enhances spawning stock," but in the end "it's the luck of the draw."
Scallops that escape predators and the risk of burial by shifting sediments typically live 18 months, spawning once, sometimes twice. Among the variables that affect them, Mr. Semlear speculated, two dry summers, with little runoff to carry pollution into the waters had probably helped pave the way for the crop this year.
Conditions appear to have been less favorable for the scallop population that will reach maturity in time for next season, he said.
Should next year yield a poor harvest, the only acceptable substitute for aficionados of the Long Island bay scallop is the one from Cape Cod. "Last year we bought a lot from Martha's Vineyard," Mr. Coronesi said. "You could not tell the difference."
This year there was no need to supplement the local harvest, which also outstripped the competition in size. "Our scallop seems to be a lot bigger," Mr. Coronesi said, referring to the firm adductor muscle, known as the eye, which is the edible section.
China is also producing scallops of the same genus and species, according to Mr. Coronesi. They are inexpensive and very good, he acknowledged, but are less desirable, because they are only available frozen. As for the Southern, or calico scallop, it is inexpensive and plentiful, he added, but its size and shape make it uneconomical to open by hand, and it loses much of its flavor when it is steamed open.
The market has shown that people will pay more for the real thing. There were even times, Mr. Warner acknowledged, when the bay scallop scarcity worked to a bayman's economic advantage.
"That first year, when they were paying $16 a pound, if you got eight or 10 pounds a day, you could actually make more money," than when they were plentiful, he said.
Yet it was tough. "When you're only getting a bushel a day," he said, "mentally it's hard to go out there."
This year, especially with the mild weather, the mood is entirely different. "I'm 35 years old," said Mr. Warner, adding that he has been on the water since he was 8. "I learned to do anything that can be done on the water, trap in spring, gill net in summer, catch clams, oysters and eels.
"I could do anything. But the good scallop season is a boost in the arm for me. For a full-time bayman it's a real help. It means I can go to work and I don't have to worry about it. It's a little bit of job security."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Warner Jr. at Hampton Bays with his equipment for scalloping on Shinnecock Bay. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); A bayman cleaning and sorting his harvest of scallops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIDE (OSL) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4482 FERRIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIDE ASA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; SCALLOPS; ALGAE; BROWN TIDE (ALGAE) SEAWEED & ALGAE (91%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); STARVATION (78%); FISHES (77%); CRUSTACEANS (75%); RESTAURANTS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CUMMINGS, MARY ED WARNER JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



165 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SHEEPSHEAD BAY;
Fishing-Boat Owners Are Caught Between City Hall and the Deep Blue Sea

BYLINE: By JOHN DESANTIS 

 BODY:
"Fresh fish! Fresh fish here!" Frank Russo's voice is clear as the winter sky, hawking piles of brilliant silver mullets on the foredeck of the Pastime Princess on Pier 3 in Sheepshead Bay. A Russian woman tries to bargain and he shoos her away. "She wants fresh fish for cheap," Mr. Russo explains.
Alan Dresner says, "The whole economy here is built on fish." Mr. Dresner, 44, is the owner of the 90-foot Apache V, another of the bay's 18-boat fleet. "I don't have to put up with the rest of the planet most of the time because I'm not there." 
 From April to December, the boats carry fishing parties to the Atlantic coastal waters, where humpback whales and sportive dolphins frolic and blow within sight of the World Trade Center. In winter, some deckhands, like Mr. Russo, make what they can selling fish they catch. But the fishermen fear their way of life could be a way of the past because of a soft economy and a city government they say treats them like second-class citizens.
"The boat owners have had a very tense relationship with the city dating back to La Guardia," said Councilman Anthony D. Weiner, referring to the city's condemnation of old, rickety wooden docks decades ago. Back then, the fleet paid the bill for new docks, and they were certain the cost would drive them out of business. It didn't.
Two years ago, the city spent $13 million to rebuild the piers, lay new concrete and, for the first time, run electricity. Last year, the Department of Parks and Recreation took over responsibility for the piers from the Department of Ports and Terminals, and promptly proposed a 40 percent increase in docking fees over three years. The fees currently average $10 a foot per month. Under the proposal, a 90-foot boat, average for a fishing vessel, would have to pay the city $15,120 annually, up from $10,800.
"This is a brand new facility," said Henry J. Stern, the Parks Commissioner. "There had not been an increase in many years."
But the boat owners cried foul. With Mr. Weiner as intermediary, they stated their case to Mr. Stern, and the city responded by offering a 10 percent increase for one year. The owners accepted and have been paying the new rate since Jan. 1.
"We'd like to encourage the return of the tour fishing industry to that area," Mr. Stern said. "I think it's wonderful that New York City has a fishing village. After all, we're a port, we ought to have a fishing village."
Many boat owners are reluctant to reveal how much they earn. The boats take out anywhere from 20 to 150 people, charging between $10 and $50, depending on the length of the trip (half day or full day) and the season. That's an affordable day trip, said one boat owner, 78-year-old Mike Scarpati, "for the guy who makes the least amount of money." Some, he said, make a few dollars by selling their catch.
Among obstacles to the business, owners cite a decline of interest in fishing among young people and the proliferation of auto thefts in the area, which drives away clientele. And, they say, there is another, costly type of theft at pierside: in this case, the culprits are turkey-sized herring gulls.
"I'd rather fight with the gulls than fight with the city," said another fisherman, Mike Parascandola. "At least with the gulls, sometimes you win." JOHN DESANTIS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers waiting to buy fish on the dock, above left, as a boat returns. Mike Parascandola with his fish. (Photographs by William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SHEEPSHEAD BAY (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL MARINE MAMMALS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FISHES (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995



166 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
International
 A day after the United States imposed trade sanctions against China, some American companies said that they were preparing to switch production from China to sites in other Asian nations, while others waited and said that they expected a resolution of the dispute. [Page A1.] 
 For the better part of a year, China's leaders, notably President Jiang Zemin, have assumed that President Clinton was willing to overlook a great deal in trade, human rights and other issues. But that strategy has repeatedly proved wrong. [A1.]
 As India emerges from 40 years of socialist economics, American companies have become leading investors in many areas, from power plants and telephone systems to ventures that will provide new choices in breakfast cereal, computers and soft drinks. [D1.]
 
The Economy
 After 15 months of robust growth, the American economy is beginning to slow. But no one yet knows whether the slowdown will turn out to be only a lull or the beginning of a slide toward much slower growth, if not recession. [D1.]
 As President Clinton lays out a five-year budget plan today, including a bid to shave $144 billion more from Federal spending, the Republican-led Congress is preparing to raise him several hundred billion dollars. [A1.]
 Farm subsidies are center stage in a political battle in Congress like few before. [A1.]
 Profit margins at most hospitals declined or stagnated last year, reflecting the pressure to reduce costs. And health care executives said many hospitals would be under even greater pressure in 1995 if Congress enacted proposals that would slash spending for medical care for the elderly and poor. [D1.]
 Sweatshops flourish again in New York City, more than a century after Jacob Riis chronicled dangerous conditions and exploitive labor practices in apparel factories on the Lower East Side. [A1.]
 
The Media Business
 A sharp jump in newsprint prices has forced newspapers to cut other costs, including the size of their staffs. And newspaper executives have begun asking why the cost of their primary raw material is rising so rapidly. [D1.]
 Dismissed by some as a backwater for aging baby boomers with passe music taste, VH1 has recently been repositioned as a channel for "MTV graduates." [D6.]
 Several magazines are trying to cater to the baby boomers' newest interest: home gardening. [D6.]
 Film studios have become ever more eager in their efforts to snatch up book manuscripts, sometimes even before a publishing contract is in place. Mary B. W. Tabor: Publishing. [D6.]
 Omnicom Group's purchase of Chiat/Day, one of the last independent creative forces in advertising, proves the industry's consolidation progresses. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Companies
 Patrick G. Hays takes over today as head of the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, as Americans increasingly switch to health maintenance organizations and other managed-care alternatives to traditional insurance. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
 Mutual and pension funds appear to be big losers among United States investors in the Mexican peso's sharp slide. The pain may spread if Mexico's markets fall further. Market Place. [D1.]
 Three professors have a new way to design a building intended to withstand seismic shocks. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (80%); BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SWEATSHOPS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); NEWSPRINT (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); GARDENING (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); AGING (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SOFT DRINKS (54%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (54%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (51%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



167 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Newsprint Costs Trouble Newspapers

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
The price of newsprint, a commodity that is usually uninteresting even to newspaper publishers, has climbed faster in recent weeks than ever before -- and faster than newspaper executives had predicted.
A metric ton of newsprint that cost $469 in 1994 was up to $552 in January. If announced price rises hold up, the price will jump to $600 in March and $675 in May, for a total increase of 37 percent this year. Newsprint often accounts for 20 percent or more of a newspaper's costs. 
 The sharp jump in newsprint prices, the second-largest expense for American newspapers after salaries, has suddenly made newsprint interesting: to save money, newspapers from coast to coast are cutting the size of their staffs, the amount of news in their publications and even the width of their pages.
As the pace of price increases has accelerated in recent weeks, strong newspapers have revised budgets to try to protect profits. Weak ones have begun to worry about whether they can survive several years of high newsprint prices. And throughout the $45 billion newspaper industry, executives have begun asking why the cost of their primary raw material is rising so rapidly.
"There is no way for newspapers to recover these costs this quickly from advertisers or consumers," said Fred Drasner, co-publisher of The Daily News in New York.
Newsprint is sold in metric tons. Large newspapers use hundreds of thousands of metric tons of newsprint annually. For example, it takes more than 300,000 metric tons of newsprint to produce the daily and Sunday New York Times every year.
Financial analysts and experts on the newsprint and newspaper industries say the explanation for the speed of the price climb is the law of supply and demand, which has been enacted with a vengeance because an unusual combination of factors has exaggerated the price swing typical of commodity markets.
After sustaining huge losses in recent years, when newsprint prices were at recent lows, the newsprint industry is trying to catch up, and at the same time, the costs of raw materials used to make newsprint have climbed sharply.
Demand for newsprint is up worldwide. As newspapers recover from the recession, they are selling more advertising and printing more pages. But supply is not growing because mills have been running near capacity for years.
Virtually no new mills are planned in North America and because of recent financial troubles among paper producers, it is not clear that they would be able to raise the capital needed to build new plants, which can cost $300 million or more.
In addition, there is increased worldwide demand for paper of all kinds, which is keeping foreign producers busy filling their own newspapers' needs. This demand has driven up the price for old newspapers, which are increasingly recycled to produce more newsprint.
In one measure of what has happened to the market for recycled paper, the New York City Department of Sanitation recently announced a crackdown on thieves who, before the garbage trucks arrive, steal curbside bundles of old newspapers to resell them.
The profit-starved state of the newsprint industry is the biggest reason that newsprint prices have been climbing so quickly. Depressed prices in the early 1990's led to multimillion-dollar losses at virtually all the 30-odd newsprint manufacturers in the United States and Canada.
"If you consider that this industry lost its shirt for three to four years, they are very greedy to recapture the massive losses," said Bruce Kirk, a paper industry analyst at S. G. Warburg & Company.
Chip Dillon, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, said part of the reason for the large losses was a huge miscalculation by paper company executives: When newspapers were thriving before the stock market collapse in 1987, many mills decided to make large investments in new equipment.
It can take two or more years to add newsprint production. By the time many of the new machines were ready to churn out newsprint in 1989 and 1990, newspapers had begun to be hit by the recession that brought the largest decline in advertising since the Depression.
When newsprint consumption dropped, profits disappeared for most mills, which were still paying for their modernization. Several companies shut down older machines or switched them to production of other grades of paper. The effect, analysts say, was that North American newsprint capacity remained about the same despite huge costs for new construction.
Now that demand for newsprint has returned, paper executives and their lenders are wary of repeating the pattern. Some also say that changes during the last several years have also made expansion more risky for them.
Some executives say they are concerned that the demand for newsprint may weaken because of fundamental changes in the newspaper business, like growing challenges from electronic media. Others say environmental regulations, particularly in Canada, have made construction of new plants more costly.
Perhaps the most significant change that is slowing expansion of newsprint capacity, some analysts say, is the growing reliance on recycled paper as a raw material. The American Forest and Paper Association, the principal trade group for United States mills, says recycled materials constitute 46 percent of the nation's newsprint.
In the days when trees were the only source of the pulp used to make newsprint, expansion was easy to plan: mill executives would select a site in the forest and build. But now that what paper makers call the "urban forest" has become a prime source of raw materials, paper company executives must deal with the complexity and expense of construction, transportation and waste disposal in populated areas.
In recent weeks there has been no hotter topic inside publishers' offices than the cost of newsprint. The newspaper industry is awash in rumors about deals. One company is said to have made a special deal for a boatload of newsprint, while another is said to have wrung a special promise of supply from a mill. Publishers say privately that they are trying to lock in supplies without appearing so desperate that they embolden suppliers to send prices up again.
A strike at three mills on the West Coast has added to the atmosphere of general anxiety by shrinking North American newsprint production an additional 4 percent, by some estimates. That has stirred rumors that some newspapers are in danger of running out of newsprint.
Some publishers have quietly spoken to each other and consulted their antitrust lawyers about whether they can somehow challenge the unwritten pricing rules of the newsprint market.
Newsprint producers have generally matched price increases announced by rival companies, like Abitibi-Price Inc., a Canadian company that has been aggressive with its pricing policy. The New York Times Company recently transferred a minority interest in a newsprint mill to Abitibi-Price, the majority owner, but continues to own a minority interest in another newsprint mill.
Spokesmen for the paper industry have not been particularly sympathetic to the complaints of their newspaper customers. Virgil K. Horton, the vice president of the paper group at the American Forest and Paper Association, said newspapers should have planned for the inevitable price increases. "Let me ask you if they complained when prices went down," Mr. Horton said.
Some newspaper executives acknowledge that the psychology of scarcity has taken hold. That mindset is helping push prices up as publishers try to edge each other out to get newsprint supplies at the lowest possible cost.
"Everybody is trying to get as much paper as they can to beat the March price increase," said William J. Hee Jr., director of purchasing for Gannett Supply Corporation, which buys newsprint for the newspapers owned by the Gannett Company. "And then they are going to try to get as much paper as they can to beat the May price increase."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Feeling the Pinch" shows amount of shopments and capacity for North American newprint, and the delivered price for North American newprint from '84-Mar. '95. (Sources: American Forest & Paper Association (shipments and capacity figures); Pulp & Paper Week; Salomon Brothers (prices)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (70%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (70%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (70%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (70%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (70%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (70%); AMERICAN FOREST & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN FOREST & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FOREST & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN FOREST & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPRINT; PRICES; NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS NEWSPRINT (95%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (92%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PAPER MILLS (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); LAYOFFS (85%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (65%); PAPER MFG (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



168 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Is Raising Questions

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
After 15 months of robust growth, the American economy is beginning to slow. But no one can know yet from the scant emerging evidence whether the slowdown will turn out to be only a lull -- followed by another stretch of strong growth -- or the beginning of a slide toward much slower economic growth, if not recession.
Auto sales and home construction, the two pillars of growth, remain mostly intact. But once built, the new homes now sell less quickly. Many retailers find they must offer bigger discounts to keep people buying. Manufacturers say that while they are still very busy, new orders are not as numerous. And last month, for the first time since 1992, the unemployment rate rose. 
 "I am hearing in the past two months comments that I had not heard before, comments that new orders are flat or slowing," said Ralph Kaufman of the National Association of Purchasing Managers, which conducts a monthly survey of its members, who are all in manufacturing. "Some of the managers feel that the higher interest rates are starting to take hold."
Yet the hard data is far from conclusive. "It is mostly straws in the wind, a sense things are not going as well as they had been," said Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office.
No straw seems more noticeable than the stockpiles of merchandise and materials piling up at stores and warehouses. Virtually every forecaster expects stockpiling to be less robust this year than last, helping to slow the economy. The slowdown could turn into a recession in the unlikely event merchants decided, more or less simultaneously, that they had stockpiled much more than they could sell. After all, their inventories in the last quarter reached three times standard levels -- and a reluctance to order more goods would have a ripple effect.
Factories would be forced to cut back, layoffs would rise, consumer confidence would falter and the economy would slow sharply. That sequence has been a major cause of recessions in the past.
"The most important ingredient for a slowdown is in place," said Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist.
But right now, the nation's merchants are not talking cutback. "Our inventories are right where we expect them to be," said Harold Ruttenberg, chairman of Just for Feet, a chain of 15 sporting goods stores based in Birmingham, Ala.
Still, some store owners are clearly concerned. "We had a very strong Christmas season, but my inventory is higher than I want," said Craig Cooper, owner of Bikes to You, a bicycle shop in Grinnell, Iowa. "My suppliers are eager to extend credit to me to get their goods into the store. Ultimately, as the retailer, I have the final say, but they are offering discounts and deals on credit that I just cannot refuse."
Economic recoveries in the United States typically alternate between strong growth and lulls. That was the pattern during the recovery that lasted through most of the 1980's. A lull now would be the second in the current recovery, which began in March 1991, with the end of the last recession. The first came in the winter and spring of 1993.
The Federal Reserve, of course, has been encouraging the onset of a lull by raising interest rates steadily since last February, and most recently last week, when it raised the lending rates it controls by half of a percentage point -- hoping to slow the economy by damping demand for housing, cars and other goods and services purchased on credit. Less growth, in turn, would keep inflation from rising.
So far 15 months of strong economic growth have produced neither rising inflation nor rising wage levels, the principal source of inflation. But Fed officials and many economists say that absent a lull, in which economic growth would decline to an annual rate of 2.5 percent from the current 4 percent, both phenomena are just around the corner.
In their view, the economy is too much like it was in 1988 and 1989. In those years, labor costs and the inflation rate rose after a period of low unemployment and weak inflation very much like today. Although the unemployment rate rose by three-tenths of 1 percent in January, to 5.7 percent, many economists consider that rate still low enough to produce labor shortages and wage pressures.
"Economists are no better than the readers of history," Professor Gordon said, "and the big historical caution is that in 1988 and 1989, inflation did accelerate."
The antidote, rising interest rates, is beginning to have an effect and, if precedent holds, the effect will be even greater in 1995. Home sales, for example, have fallen since October, partly in response to a 30-year mortgage rate that averages 9.1 percent today, more than two percentage points higher than late 1993. And rising rates might help to account for a phenomenon that manufacturers are just beginning to report.
Manufacturing has played an important role in the robust growth. Factories have operated at full capacity, and while wage levels have not risen, overtime pay and bonuses have put spending money in the pockets of tens of thousands of people. But now orders for production several months ahead are no longer growing at their old rate, according to the National Association of Purchasing Managers.
The Mexican crisis might also be a factor. Exports have been an important source of new orders and sales, but that market might shrink this year, partly as a result of the Mexican crisis, with its ripple effect. Latin America accounts for more than 20 percent of this nation's overseas sales.
Still, American consumers have been at the heart of the strong economic growth, and the rising interest rates have cut only slightly into their buying habits, says Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Survey Research Center.
Mr. Curtin cites several reasons. What with overtime and more people holding jobs today than a year ago, the total income available for spending has risen, even though individual wages have not. Then, too, Mr. Curtin's surveys show that most consumers do not expect a recession, despite the rising interest rates, and for this reason, their fear of layoffs has diminished.
"There is some point when consumers will judge that current Fed policies have crossed some threshold and the rising rates will cause a recession," Mr. Curtin said. "That threshold has not been crossed yet."
Most important, consumers have adjusted. While in the past, they would have cut spending abruptly if their wages failed to rise faster than the inflation rate, today they keep spending as long as their wages manage to keep up with inflation.
"There was a sense in the 1970's that if you were not gaining ground on inflation, you must be losing ground; you could not stand still," Mr. Curtin said. "That attitude is no longer true. There is greater acceptance now of slowly improving living standards."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Signs of a Slowdown" shows previous recovery and current recovery of economic growth, labor costs, inflation and short-term interest rates. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (68%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ROBERT D GORDON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



169 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Well, Mr. President, Baseball Hasn't Caved

BYLINE: By Claire Smith 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Bill Clinton, the well-meaning, part-time baseball fan and full-time President, should know this: Be careful what you wish for. You may get it.
The President last week wished himself into the position of being the last line of defense between a sane resolution to the six-month-old baseball strike and the repugnancy known as replacement baseball. Clinton felt that the force of his public pressure would drive baseball's Hatfields and McCoys out of their well-fortified bunkers and into a new, desperately needed relationship. So he told them to make a deal. Or else. 
 Fortunately, or unfortunately, for Clinton, or else time is here. So nonexistent were the chances of a negotiated settlement yesterday afternoon that Bill Usery Jr., the super mediator brought in by the President, pulled the plug on all pretense. Unless the two sides reach agreement by 5 P.M. today, Usery will come up with his own recommendation, as requested by Clinton.
No use wasting time they no longer had, Usery said when he announced yesterday afternoon that he would kick-start his part of the process. Not when the parties were moving in inches when they needed to move in yards, he said.
So the White House moves to war footing. More than 30 years ago, Bobby Kennedy joyously ran through his brother's White House yelling, "Steel has caved! Steel has caved!" after President John F. Kennedy forced the steel barons to back away from inflation-causing price increases.
Usery, for all his months of trying, couldn't get baseball owners or players to compromise, let alone cave. And now, no matter how adamant the President is in this matter, who knows whether Usery will ever get to take his own victory lap?
Remember, the biggest bat that Clinton could yield in this situation is binding arbitration. He cannot do that without the cooperation of Congress -- a Republican Congress.
"Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich, they're the big players here," a lawyer familiar with the Administration said yesterday, referring to the Republican leaders in Congress who the Democratic President would have to appeal to. "Without Republican support, there's not much that can be done."
Still, Clinton isn't about to give up. That much was clear when he welcomed Usery and Labor Secretary Robert Reich into the Oval Office for 45 minutes last night to again underscore his desire to see the strike settled by this evening.
As Usery subsequently suggested at a news conference, it's a big order. It may well end in defeat, assuring that the ultimate decision will fall into the hands of the President.
Then the question becomes this: How long can baseball command the Commander in Chief's attention as he seeks bipartisan support and the elusive solution to this mess?
Remember, Clinton is to get Usery's best recommendation today, the same day that debate begins on his national budget proposals to Congress.
"Baseball is still the toy department," said the lawyer who spoke on condition of anonymity. "The President of the United States has an awful lot more serious things on his plate."
Serious things with, perhaps, simpler solutions. Baseball's gridlock, after all, puts Washington's to shame. The game has become a quagmire where economic solutions seem permanently out of reach because of all the moral indignation, anger and angst that the union and the owners have carried on their backs for almost a quarter of a century.
"I mean, just imagine," the lawyer said, "the President of the United States all but ordered them to settle and they ignored him. That's pretty remarkable."
It's also baseball. At its intractable worst.
A perfect example occurred in the last few days when the National Labor Relations Board convinced the owners to kill the divisive salary cap. Yet in the wake of that action, the players and owners simply dug in deeper around their big-tax, little-tax positions, remaining a billion dollars and a trillion light years apart.
A host of government mediators didn't move them in August. Usery, the ace in that sport, obviously didn't make them budge, either. And to date, neither has a President who has had some success calming the menacing nuclear-charged rhetoric of North Korea, ousting Haitian dictators and banning assault weapons in spite of fierce gun-lobby opposition.
Nonetheless, Bill Clinton remains the nation's last best advocate for baseball. For baseball's sake, let's hope he isn't devoured by the ugliest battle for supremacy over the national pastime to date.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); SPORTS FANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); LITIGATION (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (52%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



170 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Israel Eases Palestinian Entry Ban, but Refuses to Scrap It

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Although slightly loosening its restrictions, Israel reaffirmed an entry ban today that has kept tens of thousands of Palestinians from work since Islamic suicide bombers killed 21 Israelis two weeks ago.
At its weekly meeting, the Government agreed to a list of exceptions to a territorial closing that has prevented Palestinians from crossing from the West Bank and Gaza Strip into Israel, even to reach Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem that they regard as their cultural and business centers. 
 Among those who will now be allowed into Israel are doctors, nurses, teachers and some merchants -- at most, a few thousand people, Israeli officials said. The change does nothing for the more than 50,000 Palestinian laborers who depend on jobs in Israel and whose sudden unemployment deprives the hard-pressed territories of their main source of cash.
No one in the Israeli Government denies that the territorial closing -- the latest of many imposed, lifted, then reimposed during the last two years -- inflicts hardship on ordinary Palestinians.
That theme was echoed by the United States Commerce Secretary, Ronald H. Brown, who led a trade mission to Israel today on a swing through the Middle East.
Asked about the ban at a news conference, Mr. Brown said, "It is evident that it is devastating economically to the West Bank and Gaza not to have entry." But he said Washington was "very pleased" by the easing of restrictions, calling it "an important first step."
The unemployment rate is estimated at 60 percent in Gaza, and officials in the self-rule government there protest that Israel's entry ban imposes collective punishment on many for the deeds of a few extremists. It also weakens the political standing of Yasir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization and head of the self-rule authority, they argue, and fuels support for militant Islamic groups like Hamas.
Israeli officials acknowledge those points. Agriculture Minister Yaacov Tsur, citing the "severe conditions" in Gaza, said today that the Palestinians there "do not have an alternative yet to jobs in Israel."
But he and other officials say their priority is to make Israelis feel safe after a series of bombings during the last 10 months that have claimed 56 lives inside Israel. The way to do that is to keep the populations separated as much as possible, they say.
"Separation" has become a dominant slogan lately for Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who says that his long-range goal is to end Israel's dependence on cheap Arab labor, notably in construction work and farming. But it will not be an easy task, he said several nights ago as he talked about the "tragic complexity" of the entry ban.
As an example, he cited a phone call that he received on Jan. 22 from the parents of a young soldier killed in the suicide attack earlier that day, at a bus stop in central Israel. The new restrictions on Palestinian laborers had just been imposed, and the parents were asking Mr. Rabin to make an exception for a Gazan in their employ so that they could keep their business going while they went to their son's funeral.
"I got goose bumps," the Prime Minister said, pulling at the flesh on his left arm. He gave his permission in this case, he said, but added that he wanted such reliance on the territories to end.
A demand that the entry ban be lifted is expected to be high on Mr. Arafat's list at meeting he and Mr. Rabin are supposed to have on Thursday at the northern edge of the Gaza Strip. On Tuesday, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators are supposed to resume talks on future elections in Gaza and the West Bank, which is supposed to be preceded by a redeployment of Israeli forces.
But for now the focus seems less on achieving a breakthrough than on keeping the talks from collapsing in the prevailing atmosphere of uncertainty and mutual mistrust.
Israeli officials accuse Mr. Arafat of not doing nearly enough to keep Islamic violence in check. Since he is their negotiating partner, though, they are also trying to keep from giving an impression that he has done nothing.
An unidentified senior Israeli official, presumed to be Mr. Rabin, was quoted in Israeli newspapers today as saying that Mr. Arafat's security forces had prevented three or four anti-Israel attacks in the last two weeks, including a suicide bombing.
Still, fundamental differences on security are evident. This was reflected in conversations between Mr. Rabin and Mr. Arafat last week when they took part in a four-way summit meeting in Cairo with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Hussein of Jordan.
In those talks, reconstructed in the Israeli press today based on accounts from the unidentified senior official, Mr. Rabin complained that the Palestinian authorities had arrested only 7 Gazans from the Islamic Holy War group after the latest bombing while Israel rounded up more than 200 people in the West Bank.
Mr. Arafat, in turn, accused Israelis of selling guns to Hamas and Islamic Holy War militants. "Arms sales are taking place in the West Bank -- I can provide you with addresses," he was quoted as saying.
Mr. Rabin reportedly replied: "If Hamas has more guns than you, are you the right partner for the agreement? How can you exert control if they are stronger?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; JERUSALEM; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); HAMAS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



171 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: With Sanctions Set, Companies Rethink Their China Plans

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
A day after the United States and China imposed trade sanctions on each other, some American companies said yesterday that they were preparing to switch production from China to other Asian nations, while others waited and said they expected a last-minute resolution of the dispute.
Many American executives expressed support for Washington's decision to impose 100 percent punitive tariffs, to take effect in three weeks, on more than $1 billion of Chinese goods ranging from silk blouses to cellular telephones. But they also said they were fearful that their investments in China would prove disastrous if a trade war broke out and their competitors in Europe and Asia were to receive favorable treatment from the Chinese. 
 And Beijing took measured steps yesterday to heighten those fears.
"There are countless markets abroad for Chinese products," Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi said at a news conference in Beijing, when asked if Chinese exporters would suffer from $1.08 billion in American import tariffs. "Other countries are happier about this."
While the punitive tariffs imposed on China for its purported piracy of American software, movies and music are larger than any used in Washington's numerous trade disputes with Japan and Europe, they nonetheless affect only about 5 percent of the total trade between the United States and China, which reached $46 billion last year.
And the American tariffs seem to have been imposed with an almost surgical precision so as to minimize the effect on American businesses and consumers, penalizing Chinese goods that are available from other nations.
Determined to emphasize that the dispute is but one small piece of America's relations with China, Washington yesterday sent to Beijing, as scheduled, an advance team from the Energy Department. The Americans are preparing for talks this month in which Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary hopes to persuade China to spend as much as $8 billion in the United States to satisfy its growing need for energy.
The Chinese also seemed to retaliate with moderation. Imposing 100 percent tariffs on American-made video games, compact disks cigarettes and alcohol, Beijing left untouched grain and the major American industrial sectors, though the Chinese did suspend negotiations over major automotive projects with Detroit's Big Three auto makers.
"I was surprised by the Chinese reaction; I thought it would be much worse than it is," Robert Dernberger, professor of economics at the University of Michigan's Center for Chinese Studies, told The Associated Press. "The restrained nature of the Chinese reaction indicates they want this resolved."
Because the sanctions announced on Saturday do not take effect until Feb. 26, to insure that goods already shipped are not affected, nearly three weeks are available to negotiate a settlement. No talks are scheduled, but after Washington announced similar sanctions against China last year in a dispute over textiles, a deal was reached in five days.
"We've seen this before and the Chinese have caved in at the 24th hour; I think Mickey Kantor thinks they will again," said Gib Ford, chairman and chief executive of Converse, which is based in North Reading, Mass., and makes athletic shoes. "This is very typical of the Chinese."
At some of the largest American companies, the watchwords were wait and see.
"Nothing we're doing now is threatened," said Herb Linnen, an AT&T spokesman in Washington. AT&T has sold about $500 million in telecommunications equipment in China during the last two years and has invested $200 million in joint ventures with the Chinese.
China is the largest and fastest-growing market for telecommunications equipment in Asia and is expected to invest $40 billion for new equipment between now and 2000. "We're competing with the Japanese, French and Germans," Mr. Linnen said.
And at the Boeing Company in Seattle -- the company is America's largest exporter -- Lawrence W. Clarkson, senior vice president of planning and international development, said: "We're not directly affected, but it's highly unlikely that we are going to get any new orders as long as the trade situation exist. We're obviously disappointed it came to this but naturally support Ambassador Kantor's decision. You can only hope that the parties can quickly get back to the table and reach an agreement before the sanctions are officially in place."
In the last two years, one out of every seven airplanes delivered by Boeing has gone to an airline in China, and the company is scheduled to deliver 18 aircraft to China this year.
"While airplanes and components are not on the list," Mr. Clarkson said, "our concern is what could happen if the trade war expands."
But other companies are more vulnerable, like athletic shoe makers, which have numerous factories in China.
Some American executives said the disruption would not be severe, because the shoes selected for the American tariffs are mostly children's and women's footwear that make up small parts of their business.
"China has been a key country of origin for some of our production," Mr. Ford said, noting that Converse planned to produce three million pairs of shoes in China this year and "our preference is to leave production in China." He said Converse, "in anticipation of problems," had made plans to move some production from China to Indonesia, Taiwan and Thailand. But shoes made in Taiwan may cost American consumers more because of higher labor costs, he said.
New Balance, which makes 30 percent of its shoes in China and the rest in the United States, said it was prepared to switch to Taiwanese production. "It'll be a disruption, and prices may go up," said Jim Davis, chairman of the Boston-based company. "It's not a huge logistical problem to shift production, but just a gearing up of personnel."
Donna Gibbs, a spokeswoman for Nike, the industry leader, said production would be shifted from 10 Chinese factories, which produce 28 to 30 percent of Nike's footwear, to Indonesia, where 12 plants make Nike shoes. She described the impact of the tariffs as "very minimal."
Among companies that suffer most directly from Chinese piracy, support for the American position was strong.
The Microsoft Corporation in Redmond, Wash., has complained bitterly that much of its software is pirated, and a spokeswoman, Beverly Bird, said the company would like to see China close the 29 factories that manufacture pirated compact disks, and enforce copyright laws vigorously.
The 29 factories produce 75 million pirated compact disks annually. To rein them in the central Government would need the compliance of the powerful local governments that approved the factories in the first place. Since they pay no royalties, the factories are extremely profitable.
Robert Holleyman, president of the Business Software Alliance, a trade group in Washington, said the rate of software piracy in China was about 98 percent, with losses to American software publishers estimated at $351 million a year.
"While a copyright law does exist in the People's Republic of China," Mr. Holleyman said, "it is not effectively enforced."
He said the alliance supported the tariffs announced Saturday but hoped the outcome would be a resumption of negotiations and eventual protection for American software companies.
At the Chrysler Corporation, which has been negotiating for two and a half years to start a $1 billion joint venture to build mini-vans in southern China, executives were fatalistic. The talks on the project have run into many obstacles, said Tony Cervone, a Chrysler spokesman, adding, "We have not had recent talks anyway."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Important Partners" shows goods exported by the U.S. and China to each other. (Source: National Trade Data Base)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FORECASTS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; COPYRIGHTS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); TRADE DISPUTES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TEXTILES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); ESPIONAGE (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT WU YI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



172 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Farmers Brace for Stormy Debate Over Subsidies

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Kan., Feb. 1

 BODY:
This wind-bullied land, the center of America's wheat empire since the late 19th century, is bracing for a political fight over farm subsidies like none before.
Of the 73 new Republicans in the House, 33 are from rural agricultural districts and have been at the vanguard of the movement to cut the Federal budget, curb regulations, and limit the Government's authority to interfere in business. 
 This more conservative Congress is writing a new farm policy law this year, the first since 1990. In every previous law since the first one was written during the Great Depression, the paramount provision has been a contract in which the Government helps to decide how much a farmer can grow in exchange for guaranteeing to pay farmers a set price for their crops.
Now, the central question is: What arguments will farmers and their conservative champions in the House and the Senate use to win support for one of the most costly and intrusive Government programs of all?
Here in Reno County and in more than 2,000 other rural counties across the country, perhaps the only thing as enduring as the great vaulted sky is the money that blows out of Washington to support farm incomes. In the last 10 years, $149 billion has been spent on crop subsidies nationwide, nearly $8 billion of that in Kansas alone. Farm economists say Kansas farmers typically gain $20,000 to $40,000 annually, far more than is received by families on welfare.
Those indisputable facts of economic life in Kansas and other farm states are now fueling a battle in Congress that is being sharpened by deepening concern about costs.
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, and Representative Pat Roberts, a fellow Kansan who heads the House Agriculture Committee, have both been advocates for cutting the Government, returning more power to the states and balancing the Federal budget. But both lawmakers have protected farm subsidies for years, particularly for growers of wheat, the state's most important crop.
In a speech last month in St. Louis to the American Farm Bureau Federation, Mr. Dole, who has helped shape farm policy since he entered Congress in 1961, was guarded as he discussed the coming debate, saying only that "some cuts will be made" in farm programs.
Mr. Roberts has been more voluble. In an interview, Mr. Roberts defended the subsidies, saying that nationwide they had decreased to $10.2 billion last year from $25.8 billion in 1986. Still, Mr. Roberts's 66-county Congressional district, which includes Reno County, received $5.45 billion in farm subsidies over the last decade, more than any other, according to the Environmental Working Group, a policy analysis organization in Washington.
Mr. Roberts vowed to defend those payments and his constituents from being a target for budget cutters. "Farmers have already given at the office," he said. "I will make sure that if there are additional cuts, they are not disproportionate on farmers."
Opposing the Kansas lawmakers is Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee. He said in an interview that farm subsidies were justifiably seen as a test of Republican resolve.
"We are being taunted with it almost daily," said Mr. Lugar, who owns a farm. "Will we act? I would guess that subsidies will be cut at least in half over the next five years. But I also see phasing out subsidies in five years, if not completely then in such a way that there is only some minimal safety net."
Here in Reno County, where most of the 1,540 farms receive crop subsidies, growers are nervous even as they acknowledge being somewhat embarrassed about accepting Government handouts.
"It's like insurance," said Ronald Jacques, who votes Republican and raises wheat and other crops on a 2,000-acre farm 10 miles west of here. "It's not all of your income by any stretch, but it's a help. It's something you can count on."
Budd Fountain, a retired employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who raises 1,100 acres of wheat here and received $14,000 last year in subsidy payments, said: "If they totally did away with the program, there would be some problems. As long as Government is involved in setting the supply, then the farmer has no choice because he can't make his money from the market. The price is too low."
Whatever decisions are made by Congress this year, the outcome will have a significant effect in counties like this one, which received $148 million in farm program payments over the last decade, according to the Environmental Working Group.
No policy ever devised by Congress has such power to shape so much land and so many lives. It is a policy that farmers eagerly accept even as they complain about the rules, the bureaucracy and the Government's control of grain markets.
When the Government called for maximum production of grain in the 1970's, farmers here cut down trees that served as wind breaks in order to plant every available acre.
In the 1980's, when storehouses bulged with surpluses, the Government paid farmers to plant grass to conserve topsoil, making a quarter of the flat land here look like it did over a century ago, before the prairie grasses were plowed under.
But taking so much land out of production also reduced the amount of seed, fertilizer and farm equipment being used, and limited the demand for storage space in the big white grain elevator hugging the railroad tracks here. Farm supply stores went out of business, and the grain elevator was sold.
In interviews here this week, farmers said they would gladly give up subsidies if the Government also agreed to withdraw from setting supplies. By controlling the supply, the program controls demand and thereby prices.
Without being able to control supply, they said, farmers have little choice but to take the handouts because the prices they have received at the market for wheat -- from $3.02 to $3.72 over the last decade -- are below the cost of producing it.
The program for wheat, which is similar to those for corn, feed grains, rice and cotton, pays farmers the difference between the market price for their crop, and a higher "target" price that is set by Congress. Last year, the difference was at times as much as 80 cents a bushel. The wheat program cost taxpayers $2 billion, about a fifth of which went to Kansas growers.
As political pressure mounts to dismantle the programs, farmers say, consumers do not recognize the advantages of having stable grain supplies -- and therefore stable prices -- for such items as meat, bread and milk in the supermarket. If the programs were ended, they add, grain supplies and prices would be much more erratic.
"One thing overlooked by Democrats and Republicans in this debate is that farm programs are really designed to give consumers cheap food," said Jim French, who with his wife, Lisa, raises cattle and wheat on a 1,200-acre farm in Partridge, just north of here. "But we've seen the handwriting on the wall. In the early 1980's, we earned $25,000 one year from the program, the most we've ever had. That was our profit. Last year, our check was a little over $6,000."
Farmers in this region offer many ideas about how to alter the farm programs to reduce their costs and make them more useful.
Nathan Stillwell, a cattle rancher and wheat farmer who lives just outside town urges the Government to relax the strict rules, and give farmers more flexibility to decide what to plant and how much. That will save money, he says, and produce benefits for the environment because it will allow farmers to rotate crops more easily, a soil-saving practice that the programs have discouraged.
Others, like Mr. Jacques, said that dismantling the programs altogether would be possible as long as other countries also ended the practice of subsidizing their farmers. Grain markets are influenced by international factors and as long as other countries continue to subsidize their farmers, Americans will be at a disadvantage, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim French, who raises cattle and wheat on a 1,200-acre farm in Partridge, Kan., said farm programs provide cheap food for consumers, an effect that he said was being overlooked in the debate about subsidies. (David Hutson for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 
Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Farm Subsidies" shows nationwide farm subsidies from 1985 to 1994 and districts receiving the most subsidies from 1985 to 1994. (Sources: Agruculture Dept.; Environmental Working Group)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA REPUBLICAN (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); KANSAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FEDERAL AID (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); COUNTIES (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); INTERVIEWS (68%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH PAT ROBERTS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



173 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. MANEUVERS TO TOP PRESIDENT IN PARING SPENDING

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
As President Clinton lays his five-year budget on the table on Monday with a bid to shave $144 billion from Federal spending as its centerpiece, the Republican Congress is preparing to meet that -- and trim several hundred billion dollars more as well.
The prospects of negotiating such a maneuver are loaded with political as well as fiscal implications. And they will become clearer in the weeks ahead, when House Republicans unveil the first of two installments of their budget: a five-year package of $200 billion in tax cuts and another $200 billion in spending cutbacks to pay for them. 
 But even then, the Republican-controlled Congress must still find $400 billion to $500 billion more in spending cuts over the next five years, if its central political theme -- putting the Federal budget on a "glide path" toward perfect balance by 2002 -- is to be taken seriously.
Democrats predict that they cannot do it without either wrecking the economy or stirring a revolt among voters whose favorite programs will be gutted. White House officials noted today that the House had already fallen behind schedule on its promise to produce a first round of budget cuts. And powerful Republicans who won Congress by promising to cut pork have begun to complain publicly about their discomfort at supervising a slaughterhouse.
"We've already given at the office," Representative Pat Roberts, the Kansas Republican who is chairman of the Agriculture Committee, said recently about calls for more cuts in farm programs. "I don't know how much is enough."
But in almost the same breath, he allowed that his committee "will meet our budget agreement" and produce whatever cuts were agreed on. Republican leaders insist other committees will, too.
"I will not dare say that every one of us is that committed," said Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, who heads the Appropriations Committee, "but the people in leadership are. The fact is, we've all been here for a good run for various lengths of time, and because of that, we recognize that if we're going to practice what we preach, this is the time."
What the Republicans are preaching -- and the reason they need so many billions of dollars in spending cuts -- is their political pledge made during last year's campaign season to balance the Federal budget by 2002. Mr. Clinton has charted a course of $200 billion-a-year Federal deficits for years to come. By contrast, the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, and many Senate Republicans committed themselves last fall not just to wiping out annual deficits, but to giving voters a tax break, as well.
The Congressional Budget Office says balancing the budget and giving voters a tax cut will cost up to $1.4 trillion by 2002. Republicans say that if they can cut spending by $700 billion between now and 2000, that should be enough to insure the budget will balance two years later, in 2002.
If the Republicans are holding the details of their plan close, its broad outline is no secret. Senators and representatives say in interviews that they hope to cut projected Federal spending by $600 billion to $700 billion through 2000 -- with about 50 to 60 percent of that money coming out of entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid and food stamps.
The House expects to vote on the first $200 billion of those cuts in March, as part of the tax-reduction provision of the Contract With America. According to calculations by the House Budget Committee, first published last month in The Boston Globe, more than $110 billion of those cuts would be made by committees that control benefit programs like Medicare and food stamps, and $75 billion would come from programs like road building, environmental protection and education. (The biggest entitlement program, Social Security, has been put off limits by both the Republicans and the Democrats.)
House leaders plan to roll out their remaining cuts in April or May, in the Republican version of the five-year budget blueprint that Mr. Clinton releases on Monday. The Senate, on the other hand, will propose all its cuts at once in its version of the Clinton budget, to be issued at about the same time as the remaining House cuts.
This will probably touch off a summerlong debate, leading to a final Republican budget that Congress can send to Mr. Clinton by August. That will give the President time to veto it before going on his annual vacation, one Republican legislator said last week, since there is certain to be much in Republican spending plans that the White House will not like.
The chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, and his Senate counterpart, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, made that point today. Speaking on the ABC News program "This Week," Mr. Domenici said Mr. Clinton's new budget "took a walk" on cutting the growth of mandatory spending like Medicare, which he said could go broke in six years.
Mr. Kasich, who appeared on the same program, concurred. "The bottom line is, they refused to deal with entitlements and we are going to have to, if we are going to get to zero over seven years," he said.
At 60 percent of all Federal spending, entitlements -- those programs that automatically pay benefits to anyone who qualifies -- are the toughest and largest challenges to the Republican budget cutters. They may parcel some entitlements to the states in the form of block grants for welfare, leaving the states to try to run the programs more efficiently.
But the House may also try this year to reorganize Medicare and Medicaid, two of the biggest and most politically sensitive entitlement programs. Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee, which oversees Medicare, has refused to discuss his plans. But Mr. Livingston said in an interview that a health care bill that reworks Medicare should not be ruled out this year.
Mr. Kasich and others talk openly of some sort of plan that either forces wealthy retirees to pay more for Medicare benefits or prods them to buy private insurance. Republicans also talk of moving more retirees into managed-care medical programs, which they say are cheaper to run. But that would limit retirees' choice of doctors, a politically unattractive move, and many experts say the short-term savings would be small.
And the Republicans need big savings in that area. Medicare premiums now pay less than a third of the program's actual cost of $175 billion a year; the rest comes out of the Government's general fund. Mr. Gingrich has said he wants to cut the annual growth of Medicare to 7 percent from the current 10 percent, saving about $140 billion over five years.
The Republicans are also looking at big cuts in the other large chunk of the budget, the $275 billion or so a year that goes for discretionary spending on things like roads, schools and the environment. They have ruled out further significant cuts in the Pentagon budget, the other major domestic spending program.
Speaking today on the CBS News program "Face the Nation," Mr. Livingston said the House would probably not propose this year to wipe out an entire Cabinet agency or two, as many had suspected. But he forecast vast cuts and the termination of entire spending programs and smaller agencies, well beyond the 138 programs that Mr. Clinton's budget proposes to end, and the one agency -- the Interstate Commerce Commission -- that he would abolish.
In an interview last week, Mr. Livingston suggested that his committee would take aim first at any program that was not an essential Government function. And while he mentioned some that were beloved by many Democrats -- including financing for public television and radio -- he said that need, not politics, would be the criterion for judging them.
"Those sorts of programs are just pittances compared to what we have to do across the board," he said. "But if we can't do it to programs that are nice to have, we certainly can't do it to essential functions of Government. So nice-to-haves are as good as gone."
Republicans are also considering some mathematical changes that will make their job easier, including revising the Labor Department's method of measuring inflation, the Consumer Price Index. The index is used as a yardstick for annual cost-of-living increases for many Federal programs, including Social Security, and many economists contend that it overestimates the rise in prices.
Shaving back the index would shave back the growth of all those programs, and while the short-term savings would be small, the savings over a few decades would reach well into the billions of dollars.
Those are big figures, but Republicans say they are starting to become comfortable with them.
"When we did these numbers before," said Representative David L. Hobson, Republican of Ohio, "nobody really cared. They knew it wasn't going to be law. Now they're looking at what we're doing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (53%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); PAT ROBERTS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



174 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
REBELS STILL TORMENT CAMBODIA
Two decades after they set in motion a peasant revolution that may have killed more than one million Cambodians, the Khmer Rouge and their leader, Pol Pot, continue to torment Cambodia. A1 

CHINA'S LEADERSHIP IS QUESTIONED
News analysis: Chinese and Western officials are beginning to ask whether President Jiang Zemin is mishandling Beijing's relations with the U.S. A1
 
SHIFTING PRODUCTION SITES
A day after the U.S. imposed trade sanctions against China, some American companies said they would switch production to other Asian nations, while others expected a resolution of the dispute. A1
 
AN EMERGING MARKET IN INDIA
As India emerges from 40 years of socialist economic policies, U.S. companies have become leading investors in many sectors. D1
 
DOUBTS ON ALEXANDER'S TOMB
Greek archeologists investigating claims that the tomb of Alexander the Great has been discovered visited the site in Egypt and said that they saw no evidence that the tomb has been found. A8
 
YUGOSLAV HELICOPTERS IN BOSNIA
The U.N. reported seeing 15 Serbian helicopters, apparently on a resupply mission, cross into Bosnia, suggesting that the Yugoslav Army is still involved in the war. A3
 
Bosnian Muslims and Croats reaffirm their federation. A3
 
ISRAEL REAFFIRMS ENTRY BAN
Although slightly loosening its restrictions, Israel reaffirmed an entry ban that has kept tens of thousands of Palestinians from work since suicide bombers killed 21 Israelis two weeks ago. A8
 
Talks to halt fighting between Peru and Ecuador collapse. A5
 
Mexico's impatience with rebels in the south is growing. A8
 
Guerrillas took responsibility for a blast that killed 42 in Algeria. A11
 
Abidjan Journal: African deportees and regional cooperation. A4
 
National A12-15
 
A BALANCED BUDGET AT ALL COSTS
As Bill Clinton plans his bid to shave $144 billion from Federal spending in his budget plan, the Republican Congress is preparing to meet that and trim several hundred billion dollars more, somehow. A1
 
THE POLITICS OF FARM SUBSIDIES
Arlington, Kan., the center of America's wheat empire, is bracing for a political fight over farm subsidies as the more conservative Congress begins working on a new farm policy law, the first since 1990. A1
 
RISING AMENDMENT OPPOSITION
Washington Talk: With more time and tactical possibilities in the Senate, the Democrats opposition to the balanced-budget amendment may be showing signs of life. A14
 
SPACE RENDEZVOUS REVISED
The space shuttle Discovery's leaky thruster forced ground controllers in Houston, Tex., and Kaliningrad, Russia, to revise plans for a rendezvous between the spaceship and Russia's space station. A12
 
A WOMAN'S FIGHT TO END HUNGER
Carol Doe Porter's organization, Kidcare Inc., delivers 18,000 meals a month to the poor in Houston, every one prepared in their small home's pantry. A12
 
RACIAL TENSIONS IN PRISON
Although violence in the nation's prisons has decreased in recent years, racial tensions have risen. In Los Angeles, conflicts between Hispanics and blacks are high. A13
 
NOMINEE'S APPOINTMENT AT RISK
President Clinton's choice for Surgeon General came under more scrutiny, as the top two Republican leaders in the Senate said the appointment was in trouble. A15
 
Metro Digest B1
 
AVIARY AT BRONX ZOO COLLAPSES
The aviary at the Bronx Zoo, a landmark to generations of New Yorkers, collapsed during Saturday's storm, and dozens of rare, exotic gulls and terns flew away, zoo officials said yesterday. A1
 
HARD LABOR IN THE GARMENT SHOPS
More than a century after Jacob Riis first chronicled dangerous conditions and exploitative labor practices in apparel factories on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, sweatshops still flourish. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
Making "White Man's Burden." C11
 
Change of focus for Louvre's new director. C11
 
Theater: "Merchant of Venice." C11
 
Music: Anne-Sophie Mutter. C14
 
Mikel Rouse's "Failing Kansas." C12
 
Books: "Between Friends." C18
 
Television: "Inside the F.B.I." C16
 
"Serving in Silence: The Margarethe Cammermeyer Story." C16
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: Clinton about to enter strike talks. C1
 
O'Neill yearns to play. C2
 
Basketball: Knicks fall to Magic in overtime. C1
 
Columns: Anderson on Rangers. C4
 
Rhoden on UConn basketball. C6
 
On Baseball. C2
 
On Pro Basketball. C7
 
Tennis: U.S. advances. C6
 
Track: When coach and family collide. C3
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Obituaries B8
 
Patricia Highsmith, author.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
A smart move on China.
 
Hold that line-item.
 
A new charter on Legal Aid.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: . . . and they're off!
 
Anthony Lewis: The lost leader.
 
Irvin B. Nathan: Trial by ambush.
 
John Kenneth Galbraith: Our forked tongue.
 
Bridge C18
 
Chronicle B5
 
Crossword C12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CAMBODIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CHINA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); PERU (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: BRONX ZOO (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CAMBODIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); CHINA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); PERU (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CROATIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); GENOCIDE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (85%); SPACECRAFT (83%); SPACE EXPLORATION (83%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); HELICOPTERS (67%); SPACE STATIONS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (53%); RELIGION (51%); SPACE SHUTTLE (50%); DEPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



175 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Is China Stumbling?;
Some See Mishandling of Ties With U.S., Raising Questions About Deng's Successor

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 5

 BODY:
After a series of policy miscalculations by China's Communist Party leadership, Chinese and Western officials are beginning to ask whether President Jiang Zemin is mishandling the nation's relations with the United States.
Despite an initial success last May -- President Clinton's decision to determine China's trade privileges independent of its human rights record -- Mr. Jiang, 68, has made one stumble after another in dealing with Washington, these officials say. 
 To be sure, Chinese leaders feel that Mr. Clinton shares much of the blame. But for the better part of a year, the Communist Party leaders, led by Mr. Jiang, have assumed that the President was willing to overlook a great deal in trade, human rights and other points of contention for the sake of a policy of "strategic engagement" with China.
But time and again, that strategy has proved wrong, as it has over China's continuing copyright violations, which have now drawn the largest trade sanctions ever announced by Washington.
As a result, some experts believe that Mr. Jiang is increasingly vulnerable to an early challenge as the designated heir of Deng Xiaoping, the country's ailing, 90-year-old paramount leader.
"I think the question of the handling of the relationship could become an issue in his leadership," a resident Western diplomat said this weekend.
He added that Mr. Jiang might be especially vulnerable "if the relationship is going badly" because this can only embolden future rivals to argue that he is "not up to the legacy of Deng Xiaoping because he is not showing the strategic vision to keep this relationship from going completely off the rails."
The litany of political errors began in the wake of Mr. Clinton's decision in May to grant China low tariffs and "most favored nation" trade privileges for its exports to America despite a crackdown here on dissent that included the reincarceration of the country's best-known democracy campaigner, Wei Jingsheng.
In the ensuing months, Mr. Jiang gave Mr. Clinton nothing in return for the political capital the President risked by ending five years of trade pressure aimed at winning freedom for thousands of political prisoners here.
Mr. Jiang assumed that human rights would disappear from the diplomatic agenda with Washington, diplomats reported.
But it has not.
Then in September, Mr. Jiang began calling on Mr. Clinton to make a state visit to China, something that would enhance Mr. Jiang's image as the paramount leader-to-be. But the White House demurred largely because it believes China has done nothing to ease repression.
In economic relations, China insisted that the United States make a "political decision" to back China's entry into the World Trade Organization. But China's pressure tactics backfired and galvanized the West behind the principle that China could enter the trade body only on a sound economic basis, mainly by lowering its extensive trade barriers.
And most recently, China has mounted personal attacks on United States trade negotiators sent to bring an end to copyright piracy in China. This, too, has backfired.
Taken together, such missteps indicate that Beijing has lost its way in dealing with the country that it most identifies as the key to bringing about China's modernization over the long term.
Michel Oksenberg, a Presidential assistant on China in the Carter Administration and now president of the East-West Center in Honolulu, said that "the Chinese after the M.F.N. decision overestimated their leverage" with Washington.
"There has been a hubris in China," he added, "growing out of their very rapid economic growth plus an element of nationalism and a belief that their market is so attractive that they can really influence the domestic politics of other countries. But I think they have overestimated."
Thus it is not enough to say, these analysts suggest, that China's leaders, seized by the political transition that will be brought on by Mr. Deng's death, are paralyzed or acting with extreme caution. These are undeniable factors in explaining Chinese behavior, the experts say, but the policy mistakes also suggest a political clumsiness at the top.
Some Chinese say Mr. Clinton has also missed opportunities to move the relationship forward. "I thought Mr. Clinton missed a big chance when he did not come to China," said Yuan Ming, a Beijing University specialist on the United States. "That would have been a big step forward to improve the relationship and to establish a working relationship with China as a strong partner for America, certainly not as a threat."
A former Ambassador to China, James R. Lilley, who recently visited Beijing, said there were whispers among Chinese officials that the ailing Mr. Deng feels that Mr. Jiang is mismanaging the all-important American relationship.
Where Mr. Deng in his heyday was at ease negotiating one on one with President Carter, touring America and even wearing a 10-gallon hat at a Texas rodeo, Mr. Jiang refuses to have personal telephone contact with Mr. Clinton, preferring to read from cablegrams with the advice of his Foreign Minister. When Mr. Jiang and Mr. Clinton have met, the exchanges have been stiff, with Mr. Jiang often reading from note cards.
Mr. Deng's youngest daughter and biographer, Xiao Rong, who insists that her father is "content" with his choice of Mr. Jiang, recently stated in an interview the blunt reality of Mr. Jiang's exposure.
"The real question," she said, "is not whether my father's health is good or bad right now, but rather whether the people who have taken over the leadership since his retiring have done a good job or not."
By posing this question, Ms. Xiao was making the point that it has yet to be answered.
Mr. Jiang, for his part, knows that his leadership is untested and he, therefore, must walk a careful path between hard-liners who want him to stand up to foreign "meddling," and reformers who want to quicken the pace of dismantling the economic legacy of orthodox Communism.
Some hard-liners in the party, Mr. Jiang recently complained, have branded him a "capitalist," a word that carries a condemning connotation dating to the 1950's, when Mao Zedong purged economic liberals from the party.
In this season of political transition in China, more may be on the line than Mr. Jiang's management of relations with Washington.
A book titled "Looking at China Through the Third Eye" that circulated in China last year rattled the party establishment and was banned because it struck at the heart of Mr. Deng's reforms, asserting that they have created "volcanic" forces of disparity and surplus labor that could explode in rebellion. The book's authorship is uncertain.
A Western diplomat said: "I think this may be the issue. Is there a debate in the top leadership as to whether China is trying to do the wrong thing?"
The wrong thing, he explained, is China's attempt to enter the World Trade Organization by stripping away the protected markets of its state-owned industries, by reforming its banking system by acknowledging colossal bad debts, and by forcing money-losing state enterprises into bankruptcy.
If the consequences of these steps are lost markets, production shutdowns, large-scale layoffs and social instability, that could spell catastrophe for the Communist Party.
For now, Mr. Jiang is neither defending himself nor articulating a new vision of relations with the United States. Soon he may have a new challenge, as powerful voices in Congress press for stronger American support for Taiwan.
"What we see at the moment is an inability by the Chinese to give any signals," a diplomat said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); COPYRIGHTS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (85%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); COPYRIGHT (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: ZEMIN, JIANG; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; TYLER, PATRICK E BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



176 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2223 words

HEADLINE: Lingering Shadow -- A special report.;
Rebels Still Torment Cambodia 20 Years After Their Rampage

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHOEUNG EK, Cambodia, Feb. 2

 BODY:
It is said by Cambodians that anyone who doubts the truth of what happened here in 1975 must make the pilgrimage to this tiny village. Because in what was once a fertile rice paddy on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, the capital, there is today a grisly and convincing memorial to the frenzied slaughter that erupted across Cambodia 20 years ago this spring.
One visitor needed no convincing at all. 
 "I was a boy during the Pol Pot times, and I still remember how they would line up people -- 10 people, 100 people -- and tie their hands and shoot them in the back," said Buntha Krouch, a 25-year-old Cambodian-American whose Cambodian mother-in-law had insisted that he make the trip to Choeung Ek.
"You don't forget this."
Mr. Krouch, who fled Cambodia in 1979 and is now an engineering student at Pennsylvania State University, stood transfixed before the Government-built ossuary here: a giant glass pagoda encasing 8,985 human skulls.
These were the victims of the killing fields of Choeung Ek, one site of the death camps organized by the Khmer Rouge, the Maoist-inspired guerrillas whose reign of terror over Cambodia began with the capture of Phnom Penh in April 1975. The skulls were unearthed from deep pits that are still littered with shards of bone and frayed strips of cloth.
Two decades after they launched their final assault on Phnom Penh and set in motion a crazed peasant revolution that killed hundreds of thousands and perhaps more than one million Cambodians, the Khmer Rouge and their notorious leader, Pol Pot, continue to torment this nation with violence, and with at least the threat of another savage takeover of Cambodia.
Much has changed here in those 20 years: a 1978 Vietnamese invasion that forced the Khmer Rouge back into the jungle, a 1991 peace agreement that was supposed to end the civil war between the Khmer Rouge and the Vietnamese-installed Government, a 1993 election that established the first freely elected Cambodian Government. But Cambodians face a threat that is hauntingly reminiscent of that era.
Then, as now, Pol Pot, the French-educated Cambodian born with the name Saloth Sar, stalks the dense forests, waiting for his chance to grab power from a Government perceived by much of the public as corrupt and incompetent. Then, as now, his most effective weapons are the terror that he can unleash almost at will in the countryside, and the hypnotic loyalty of a handful of ruthless disciples. Then, as now, Pol Pot has powerful friends in the outside world who want him to survive. Today, those friends are in neighboring Thailand.
Some diplomats and certainly many Cambodian officials argue that the Khmer Rouge are growing weaker and more isolated as thousands of Pol Pot's troops have defected.
"The Khmer Rouge will definitely disappear," Foreign Minister Ung Huot said. "It is only a matter of time."
But others find it difficult to be so hopeful, predicting that the guerrillas will plague Cambodia for years, possibly another generation -- certainly until Pol Pot is dead.
 
Attacks
Khmer Rouge Still on Offensive
 There are no reliable reports on the whereabouts of Pol Pot, although the shadowy 66-year-old guerrilla leader is believed by foreign intelligence agencies to be living in comfort, shuttling among rebel camps in western Cambodia. Scholars are convinced that Pol Pot remains a dedicated Marxist, and that he holds to a dream of another violent peasant revolution in Cambodia.
His army today has an estimated strength of 5,000 to 10,000 soldiers, far smaller than when his forces overran Phnom Penh in 1975, which the Khmer Rouge named Year Zero because it was supposed to mark a rebirth of Cambodian history. But while the rebel army is too small today to pose any immediate threat to the capital or other large cities, it is capable of wreaking havoc on the Government elected in 1993.
In recent weeks, the Khmer Rouge have attacked dozens of farming villages in western Cambodia, killing at least 100 people, burning homes and crops and slaughtering farm animals. Tens of thousands of people have been made refugees in the area around Battambang, the country's second-largest city, and the Government is struggling to feed them in the midst of a nationwide drought.
The United Nations-sponsored elections produced a coalition between the party associated with King Norodom Sihanouk, who has been returned to the throne after most of two decades in exile, and the party associated with the Cambodian leaders installed by Vietnam in 1979.
The new Government is trying to revive Cambodia's shattered economy -- living standards are among the most miserable on earth, with most Cambodian adults earning less than $1 a day and with widespread malnutrition and disease -- by enticing foreign investors and tourists here.
"Our policy is to develop the country in order to stop the Khmer Rouge, and the policy of the Khmer Rouge is to try to stop the development to destroy us," Foreign Minister Ung Huot said.
The Khmer Rouge want the foreigners out, hoping that an exodus of investors and tourists will insure the Government's collapse. The rebels have begun to attack foreigners, reportedly offering a bounty of $8,000 for every Westerner who is caught or killed. They have taken responsibility for the killing of an American tourist last month near the ancient capital of Angkor. While the Government blames bandits for that killing, there is no doubt that the Khmer Rouge were responsible for the deaths of several other Westerners last year, including three backpackers slain in September after rebels attacked a train in rural southern Cambodia. The three young men -- an Australian, a Briton and Frenchman -- were killed with blows to the head, long the preferred method of execution by the Khmer Rogue because it saves bullets.
 
The People
Rebels Praised As Uncorrupt
 It is difficult to overstate the fear that the Khmer Rouge still arouse among Cambodia's seven million people. It is the rare Cambodian who cannot identify several family members who died during what is commonly known here as the Pol Pot time. It is common to find Cambodians who lost everyone. Most of the victims of the Khmer Rouge died from starvation or disease. Thousands of others were executed in killing grounds like Choeung Ek, targets of Pol Pot's paranoid fear that anyone with an education or a special calling -- doctors, teachers, businessmen, painters, dancers, Buddhist monks -- posed a threat to a revolution meant to glorify peasants.
One sign of how seriously Cambodia's new Government has failed to inspire confidence is that some Cambodians are quietly expressing support for some of the ideals of the Khmer Rouge, sometimes even for the organization itself.
"The Khmer Rouge are not corrupt, and that is why some people still support them," said a 23-year-old student at the University of Phnom Penh, who like many of his classmates did not want his full name used for fear of retaliation from the Government.
"In the Khmer Rouge time, they killed many people, but there was no corruption," he said. "And corruption is the most terrible problem that we have now."
He sat with other students around a formica table in the library of an English-language training program that is being underwritten by the Government of Australia. Apart from the classrooms renovated by the Australians, the university is a moldering wreck. The campus buildings were all but dismantled by the Khmer Rouge as part of their vicious purge of intellectuals. In the minds of many students, the slaughter of the 1970's is associated with Pol Pot and his senior henchmen, not with the entire organization. The Khmer Rouge are seen as savage, but they are also seen as nationalistic and honest.
"The corruption is destroying Cambodia, and I think maybe that is a much bigger danger than the Khmer Rouge," another student said. "Pol Pot may be bad, but some of the other Khmer Rogue leaders are not so bad."
Corruption allegations dog most senior officials in the Cambodian Government. Despite paltry government salaries, many live lives of luxury, disappearing on short notice for holidays in Hong Kong, Europe and the United States. The number of expensive European sedans prowling the potholed streets of Phnom Penh defies any explanation other than corruption.
"Today's Cambodia crawls with greed and corruption at the highest levels," warned Julio Jeldres, founder of the Khmer Institute of Democracy, a human rights group. "Corruption creates resentment and inequality and helps dissatisfied people to fall under the spell of the Khmer Rouge."
The Khmer Rouge have clearly struck a chord with many Cambodians in their endless propaganda, heard in rebel radio broadcasts, blaming the nation's problems on Cambodia's traditional enemy, Vietnam, and on the hundreds of thousands of ethnic Vietnamese who live here.
"We all think that Pol Pot hates Vietnam very much, and we agree with him on that," a 19-year-old university student said. "Vietnam will eat up Cambodia if it can."
 
Foreign Support
Now Thais Help Khmer Rouge
 The Khmer Rouge have outlasted almost every other Communist insurgency in Asia. It is a measure of Pol Pot's tenacity, and the greediness of some of Cambodia's neighbors, that the Khmer Rouge still exist. China, the principal foreign patron of the Khmer Rouge in the 1980's, is applauded by diplomats here for having cut off assistance to the rebels. But there is unending suspicion about Thailand, where elements of the Thai military and dozens of logging and gem companies are reported to continue a lucrative border trade with the rebels.
It does not take much searching along the long dusty stretches of the porous border to find Thai traders who acknowledge that they have ignored the Thai Government's demands that they cut off trade with the Khmer Rouge, who control areas of western Cambodia rich in lumber and gems. The trade through Thailand is thought to bring the rebels millions of dollars, enough to continue the fighting indefinitely.
"I think the world lies about the Khmer Rouge -- they are really good people," said a Thai gem merchant whose workshop is near the Thai border city of Aranyaprathet.
Giving his name as Mr. Vichi, he held up a blood-red ruby that he said had been sold to him by the Khmer Rouge. He admired the gem as it glistened in the harsh sun.
"Why should I care about the internal problems of Cambodia?" he asked. "That is not my country."
The Thai Government denies that it knows of any border trade, and diplomats acknowledge that the Government of Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai has done more than any of its predecessors to cut off support for the Khmer Rouge. But diplomats say there is still plenty of evidence showing that the trade continues, although curtailed. Cambodian officials say 16 Thai gem-mining companies were digging as recently as last month in rebel-held areas. Some of the best evidence against the Thais has come from recent Khmer Rouge defectors, who say Thailand remains the lifeline for Pol Pot.
Chea Sari, a Khmer Rouge major who defected last fall after 23 years with the rebels, said: "The Thai support the Khmer Rouge 100 percent. They are like an artery that provides blood to the Khmer Rouge."
 
Changes
Abuses Laid To Local Chiefs
 Whatever the threat, there are foreign investors who remain enthusiastic about Cambodia. Beyond lumber and gem-mining, tourism is promising. The stone temples of Angkor, the ancient capital of the Khmer empire, are the greatest archeological wonder in Southeast Asia, and it is commonly said in the travel industry that Cambodia's small population could support itself largely from the hard currency brought here by tourists.
Despite its battlefield struggles with the Khmer Rouge, the army is encouraged by the recent defection of thousands of rebel soldiers under a amnesty program begun last year. The defectors have reported that while the central command of the Khmer Rouge remains loyal to Pol Pot, the once strict chain of command may be dissolving in parts of the countryside.
"The Khmer Rouge were once a very honest organization," said Mr. Chhum Song, who lost an eye to shrapnel while fighting in 1975. "Everywhere that Pol Pot occupied, it was a good place. No brutality, no violence. And we were all brought together by his principle to stop the Vietnamese, get rid of the Vietnamese."
But he explained that in the early 1990's, the Khmer Rouge decentralized authority, allowing local commanders more power to make decisions. Mr. Chhum Song and other defectors say the result was chaos in many provinces, with Khmer Rouge commanders turning to corruption and indiscriminate violence.
"In 1990, many people in the Khmer Rouge became corrupt," he said. "The commanders would begin to tax the villages, tax them for every tree that was cut down. And even with all this money, there was not enough food for us soldiers."
But none of this, he insisted, is a reflection on Pol Pot -- "Brother Number One," as he is called in the Khmer Rouge -- and his closest deputies.
"There is no hint of corruption about them," Mr. Chhum Song said.
"At the very top of the Khmer Rouge, I believe, there are honest men. They are committed to the same revolution, as always. They do not intend to go away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the Cambodian memorials to victims of mass killings under the Khmer Rouge rebel movement in the 1970's is this one at the village of Tuol Sleng, where a museum includes a country map that has been constructed of the victims' skulls. Thousands of guerrillas have defected from the Khmer Rouge rebel movement since the Cambodian Government began an amnesty program last year. One waited at a camp near Phnom Penh. (Photographs by David Portnoy for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Map of Cambodia showing location of Phnom Penh. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (94%); 

COMPANY: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA) PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA; CAMBODIA (99%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); CIVIL WAR (85%); ENGINEERING (73%); POLITICS (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: POL POT; SHENON, PHILIP POL POT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



177 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: India Now Winning U.S. Investment

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Until recently, anybody planning to invest $100 million in an industrial complex in the Indian state of West Bengal would have been considered a gambler or worse. West Bengal, with its capital, Calcutta, has been ruled for nearly two decades by a Communist government, with an economic record many Indians compare to the one compiled by the Calcutta government's old mentors in Moscow.
But when India's economic-overhaul program began picking up pace last year, George Soros, the New York-based financier, looked first to West Bengal, which has abandoned its Marxist scruples and begun to bid eagerly for foreign investment. Last month, Soros Fund Management, Mr. Soros's investment company, announced that its flagship investment in India would be a partnership in a $1.25 billion petrochemical complex at Haldia, south of Calcutta. 
 In many ways, the Soros deal symbolizes the sweeping changes occurring as India emerges from 40 years of socialist economic policies. Since Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao's Government in New Delhi embraced market forces and foreign investment in 1991, American companies have been leading investors in many crucial sectors, from new power plants and telephone systems to ventures that will provide fresh choices in breakfast cereals, computers and soft drinks.
Many American executives acknowledge that what drew them to India was the size of the country's population, about 890 million people. The Indian Government estimates that about 200 million people belong to the middle class, with surplus incomes that make them potential customers for foreign products. Other attractions include the fact that India is a democracy, with independent courts to settle legal disputes, and the fact that English is used widely in business.
But foreign businesses also encounter bureaucratic interference and huge logistical problems in a country where large areas have seen little or no progress in decades. Roads are narrow and overcrowded, telephones unreliable where they exist at all, and living conditions are as backward as any in the world.
The most recent listing produced by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce in New Delhi in May listed 422 American companies with Indian investments, from blue-chip companies like International Business Machines, General Electric and Coca-Cola, which have made multi-million dollar investments, to smaller firms like Haystack Systems, a San Francisco-based computer software company that has invested $25,000 in its Indian venture.
Since the list was compiled, scores of other American companies have announced investment plans at a pace outstripping rivals from other countries. American companies have accounted for nearly 40 percent of all investment proposals approved by the Indian Government's watchdog agency since the economic overhaul effort started, which is more than the combined total of all proposals from Europe and Japan.
Yet because the lag between signing deals and getting businesses running is longer in India than in many countries, the total actually invested by American companies so far -- $700 million in 1994, compared with just $32.6 million a decade ago -- is still small compared with American investments elsewhere in Asia. American executives are finding that the Indian bureaucracy, though gradually releasing its tight grip on the economy, wields wide powers, compounding inefficiencies from decades of socialism.
Last month during a visit here, Ronald H. Brown, President Clinton's Commerce Secretary, told Indian leaders that the United States hoped to consolidate the lead that American corporations had taken in making use of the country's new openness. American business executives traveling with Mr. Brown pressed the point home by signing contracts worth $7 billion in planned new investment. But as Mr. Brown made the rounds here, there were new signs that Japanese corporations are gearing up to offer a major challenge.
On the day that Mr. Brown met with Prime Minister Rao, the new chairman of the Sony Corporation, Norio Ogha, told a news conference in New Delhi that his company had decided the time had come to invest in India. Sony's initial move will be a modest $16 million venture to manufacture Trinitron television sets, but other Japanese companies seem sure to follow.
The Japanese, like the Americans, are starting to conclude that India will one day be one of Asia's most lucrative markets. "These days, there are two places to invest -- one is the United States and the other is India," said Purnendu Chatterjee, an associate of Mr. Soros.
The Soros Fund has built an investment portfolio of more than $12 billion, only a small portion of which has been invested in developing countries. But in India, the Soros Fund plans to invest up to $1 billion.
General Electric has invested $200 million in India, the largest stake so far of any United States corporation. G.E. expects to increase this to $600 million this year, which is relatively small exposure for a company with $65 billion in assets. But John F. Welch, G.E.'s chairman, who visited last month to review its operations, said his company viewed India as as one of the best investment prospects.
"India's going to be great," Mr. Welch said during a trip to assess G.E.'s investments in plastics, home appliances, lighting and medical imaging equipment. The company also has consumer finance and satellite television projects in the planning stage. Each time, G.E. has sought out partners who have been leaders in their field, assuring it ready-made marketing and distribution.
Mr. Welch's remarks made front-page news in India, which has been going through a period of agonizing over its economic changes. Although the changes brought record levels of exports, foreign-exchange reserves and industrial expansion, India's overall growth rate since the changes began has averaged only 3.5 percent, half of what it needs to begin catching up with neighbors like Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, which have per capita incomes several times India's $330 a year.
Many Indian executives and economists worry that India will fall even more behind unless the Rao Government moves fast to dismantle the parts of the old socialist economy left untouched. But Mr. Rao, whose Congress Party has slumped in recent state elections across India, has apparently concluded that the party's problems stem partly from the unpopularity of the economic changes with the 350 million Indians who live in poverty, many of whom have seen little or no benefit.
With a general election coming in 1996, Mr. Rao has said the overhaul effort will continue, but with few of the major changes economists believe necessary to throw the economy into high gear. This appears to mean that the Government will do nothing to dismantle the vast network of loss-ridden state-owned industries that employ millions and nothing to change labor laws that mean, in effect, that no Indian worker can be laid off.
Investors will also have to wait for an end to the ban that India maintains on foreign-made consumer goods and to punitive tariffs it imposes on imports of equipment needed for new projects here. Another casualty may be the effort to overhaul the investment-approvals process, which hinges on an agency controlled by Mr. Rao, the Foreign Investment Promotion Board.
But to Mr. Welch, the G.E. chairman, waiting for ideal investment conditions misses the point. "So what if India takes two steps forward and a half a step back?" Mr. Welch told reporters after a speech in New Delhi. He added: "India doesn't think enough of itself. If the United States had India's strengths, there would have been signs all over the world by now."
Still, investing in India can be a daunting experience. Several American companies that have new investments here -- I.B.M., Coca-Cola and Mobil, among others -- have painful memories of the 1970's, when India nationalized foreign companies on terms that were tantamount to confiscation. Memories are kept alive by the Indian nationalists, many still prominent in Parliament and the Indian news media, which gives daily prominence to articles depicting foreign investment as a betrayal.
Such sensitivities are one reason many large American companies have kept their investments modest. The caution is particularly marked among the oil companies, including Mobil, who were major victims of the 1970's nationalizations. They have limited their new investments to production of lubricants, holding off on major investments of the kind required to build refineries or to engage in oil exploration.
"If you got 10 or 20 cents on the dollar in the 1970's, you have to be sure it's not going to happen again," an American oil executive said.
Other American companies have made major investment commitments only after securing special guarantees. The AES Corporation, a power-generating company based in Arlington, Va., was one of six American companies that concluded deals to build power stations in India during the Brown mission in January, but only after the Rao Government agreed to give "counterguarantees." These obligate the Government to pay for power delivered to Indian electricity boards by the new power plants if the utilities default.
AES will be investing $80 million in a power plant at a remote settlement 10 hours' drive from Bhubaneshwar, the capital of Orissa state.
"It's a long way from Delhi to the heartland of Orissa," said Tony Colman, director of AES Transpower, the subsidiary that will oversee the AES interest in the project. But Mr. Colman noted that India plans to add 30,000 megawatts of generating power to its badly overloaded electricity grid by the end of the decade, one of the most ambitious power development programs in the world.
"It's a vast market, and we wanted to be part of it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As India moves more toward a market economy, Western companies, particularly American ones, are stepping up their investments there. Last month in New Delhi, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown of the United States announced U.S.-Indian business agreements worth $7 billion. (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: "Pouring In" shows the increase of investment in India, and amount of non-Indian and Indian investors. (Sources: Tata Services Ltd., Indian Department of Economics and Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); IBMC (BRU) (52%); IBM (NYSE) (52%); IBM (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); KOLKATA, INDIA (91%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); KOLKATA, INDIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (68%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); SOFT DRINKS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); PETROCHEMICALS (54%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) GEORGE SOROS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



178 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: 62 New Guards Will Reinforce Arizona Border

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
President Clinton today ordered 62 more border guards sent to Nogales, Ariz., in response to a surge in illegal border crossings from Mexico, the White House said in a statement.
The increase in border crossings has been prompted by the economic turmoil in Mexico in recent weeks as the value of the peso has plummeted. The White House said it expected that the pressure on the border with Mexico would subside now that Mr. Clinton had taken action to stabilize the peso. Mr. Clinton offered Mexico $20 billion in loans and loan guarantees last Tuesday as part of an international aid plan. 
 The White House said the agents being sent to Arizona were being reassigned from the Canadian border and from interior stations in Arizona and other parts of the United States. They will begin to report for work on Tuesday, increasing the border force by 17 percent.
The Administration, which had expected the number of illegal entries to increase in Arizona as a result of its crackdowns in California and Texas, is training 100 new agents to reinforce the border at Nogales, the statement said.
"But illegal crossings increased so dramatically in January in the wake of the peso devaluation that more agents are needed now," the statement said.
An earlier crackdown in the San Diego area was deemed successful. That $25 million operation, begun in October, was an intricate, quasi-military combination of fencing, high-intensity lights, additional staffing and increased use of radios, night-vision devices and motion detectors.
On the first nights of the operation, the number of apprehensions increased 30 percent to 200 percent.
By the turn of the year, word had begun to spread among illegal immigrants that crossing at San Diego was no longer a breeze. Attempts at illegal entry there began to fall off, followed by a decline in apprehensions.
Last week, Border Patrol officials said apprehensions in January were down sharply, to 31,000, compared with 38,000 in the same month last year. San Diego had once been considered the easiest place to sneak into the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NOGALES, AZ, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (84%); BORDER PATROL (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (84%); BORDER PATROL (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES (ARIZ); MEXICO; UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS BORDER CONTROL (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DEVALUATION (77%); MOTION DETECTORS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



179 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

DESPITE MANY RULES, SWEATSHOPS THRIVE
Sweatshops still exist all over New York City 104 years after Jacob Riis chronicled dangerous physical conditions and exploitative labor practices in apparel factories on the Lower East Side. In fact they are flourishing, despite a host of laws that have accumulated since Riis's days -- rules on labor, health, safety and immigration designed to flush them out and, if necessary, shut them down. The shops continue to thrive because of dramatic changes in the apparel industry, which in New York has shifted from the large factories that once replaced sweatshops back to the small shops themselves. A1.
 
BRONX ZOO AVIARY COLLAPSES UNDER SNOW
The gracefully arched 19th-century aviary at the Bronx Zoo -- home to a colony of 100 South American sea birds and a landmark to generations of New Yorkers and visitors -- collapsed in a gust of wind under the weight of a foot of snow during Saturday's storm, and dozens of exotic gulls and terns flew away, zoo officials said. But no birds were killed, and only one was known to have been injured. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
SHOVELING OUT OF DIRE STRAITS
The ice, snow and frigid temperatures that made yesterday a mess in the New York metropolitan region after the winter's first big snowstorm was nothing but a blessing for Betty Smith. An unemployed mother of four children, Ms. Smith bundled up and found work yesterday helping shovel the city out of its misery. But the consequences of the storm were not the same for everyone. B3.
 
OFFICER HELD IN ATTACK ON PROSTITUTE
It may be unusual that a prostitute calls the police for help. And it is not every day that a police officer is arrested after the prostitute calls him her "john." But that is apparently what happened early yesterday in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. The officer was charged with attempted murder after the prostitute said he fired his gun at her. B2.
 
WOMAN MAKES NAME AT PINBALL PINNACLE
In her first appearance in the Professional and Amateur Pinball Association tournament, at the Park Central Hotel in midtown Manhattan, a 26-year-old graduate student in Judaic studies and business racked up the highest score in the opening round of the women's division. The performance by Alysa Parks earned the glances, gestures and whispers of reverent opponents. B2.
 
YOUTHS WAGE ANTI-VIOLENCE CAMPAIGN
The violence that is a part of New York City life came to the front steps of the Hudson Guild Settlement House late one evening last June, when a shootout erupted outside. The gunfire gave added immediacy to an anti-violence project that kept youths at the guild busy last spring and summer. As members of a program called Students Against Violence, they produced three public-service announcements that were shown on local cable television channels and distributed to other youth organizations. B2.
 
BUILDING'S PROPERTY TAXES TO BE REPAID
A State Supreme Court justice has ordered New York City to repay millions in property taxes on a once-proud 1920's office tower in lower Manhattan that has had virtually no tenants since 1991 and, in the depressed state of the downtown real estate market, no prospect of attracting any soon. B6.
 
REGION
 
CUOMO ASSAILS PATAKI TAX CUTS
The last Governor of New York sounds outraged. Disgusted. Cut services to the poor so everyone else can get a small tax cut? Risk hurting the homeless and the elderly? Let the sickly fend for themselves? Not if Mario M. Cuomo were still in charge. Those who wonder what Mr. Cuomo would have done if he had won in November need wonder no more. He claims he would have denied New Yorkers an income tax cut as proudly as Governor Pataki offers it. Metro Matters, B3.
 
WHERE THE DEAD CHRISTMAS TREES GO
Valentine's Day, Shmalentine's Day. It's still Christmas in the suburbs. Here and there, trees linger on long past their due, testaments to spirit or inertia. "I just keep procrastinating," said Jim Rice, a solid-waste consultant who works in Scarsdale, N.Y., and lives in Mount Vernon. Putting up a tree is "fun and festive," he said; taking it down is a "sad, dull job." B5.
 
Chronicle B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SWEATSHOPS (90%); BIRDS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (76%); WEATHER (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); MURDER (72%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); IMMIGRATION (56%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



180 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Snow Offers Opportunity To Shovel Out Of Dire Straits

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
The ice, snow and frigid temperatures that made yesterday a mess in the New York metropolitan region after the winter's first big snowstorm was nothing but a blessing for Betty Smith. An unemployed mother of four, Ms. Smith bundled up and found work yesterday helping shovel the city out of its misery.
She was one of 672 people hired temporarily by the New York City Department of Sanitation to shovel snow and ice off sidewalks, at bus shelters and at curbs in anticipation of the morning rush hour. The extra help was needed in the wake of the Northeaster that trounced the area on Saturday, leaving 6- to 16-inch accumulations of snow, disrupting air, rail and highway travel, and causing some power outages and flooding. 
 Things were made worse by an increasingly bitter cold snap that began yesterday afternoon as a cold air mass swept in, pushing the temperature to 10 degrees in Central Park by 10 P.M., said Edward Yandrich, a forecaster for the National Weather Service.
With the wind chill factor expected to dip to 30 degrees below zero in many places overnight, the weather service issued a wind chill advisory, warning of "dangerous and even life-threatening" cold.
The temperature in High Point, N.J., fell to 1 below zero yesterday. The lowest temperature on record for this date in Central Park is 4 below in 1895, said Mr. Yandrich.
Mr. Yandrich said that while the temperatures were certainly the lowest they had been this winter, they were not expected to break records. "North and northeast of the city, where it's the coldest right now, the record lows for this date have been well below zero," he said.
The frigid weather, compounded by high winds, will remain through the week, he said. High temperatures between 20 and 25 are expected today, with a low of 15 at night. Tomorrow night, another cold air mass is expected, keeping the temperature in the mid-20's on Wednesday.
"By Thursday, it may get back up to just freezing again," Mr. Yandrich said. "It's going to be a very cold week."
Except for the frigid temperatures, things were expected to be back to normal for this morning's commuters.
Starting at 7 A.M. yesterday, for $7.87 an hour, workers like Ms. Smith fanned out across the city and chipped away at the ice and hardened snow that made getting around an exercise in New York diligence.
After getting out their boots, sleds and extra mufflers on Saturday to deal with the storm, many people stayed indoors yesterday.
"It's a drag," Marc Cheseborough, a broadcast engineer for Lifetime Television who lives in Queens, said of the winter assault. "I live on the top of a hill, and it's like watching a Little Rascals episode with people flying through the air."
"It's been great," said Rudy Janums, a yellow-cab driver who said he had been in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan picking up people weary of slogging through snow. "The streets are in excellent condition," he said. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has "got everybody on the ball. He's got everybody working."
As the region coped, Ms. Smith -- buttoned down, wrapped up and waterproofed to the best of her ability -- shoveled snow in Harlem and was grateful for a job.
"I'm out here starving," said Ms. Smith, 34, whose children are 9, 7, 5 and 4. She said that she relies on public assistance and that it is difficult to make ends meet.
"I want to work," she said, taking a break from clearing the snow at 125th Street and Lenox Avenue.
Ms. Smith said she heard months ago that the Sanitation Department sometimes hires temporary workers during snow emergencies. So she kept her fingers crossed for snow.
Mike Haddock, who has been out of work since September, felt the same way. He was part of the crew at the same location as Ms. Smith. Armed with two forms of identification and proof that he could work in the United States, Mr. Haddock signed up at the Sanitation Department district office at 135th Street and Park Avenue.
Mr. Haddock, his breath steamy in the frigid morning, said he lives in the South Bronx and has three daughters to support. He used to clean boilers for the city, he said. Since he lost that job he figured he has put in "1,000 applications" for work, to no avail.
"This year, my luck wasn't so good," Mr. Haddock said. "After the snow, it's back to unemployment or welfare. I'm grateful for this work, but the city should give us something else like this, like cleaning up lots."
Another crew member, Harold Smith, a former security manager, said he had been out of work for two years. He has four children and lives in Harlem.
"A friend of mine told me about this and gave me a number to call," Mr. Smith said. "I was lucky, because some people didn't have the ID they needed. It's been hard, being out of work."
The Department of Sanitation's call for help from able-bodied people 18 years old or older quickly attracted more than 1,000 people, although many lacked the required identification or failed to show up to work, said Lucian Chalfen, a spokesman for the Department of Sanitation. Mr. Chalfen said more workers would be used today, although he did not know how long the jobs would last. The number to call is (212) 219-8090. Mr. Chalfen said many people joined the department's temporary work force during last year's incessant snowstorms.
Besides the temporary workers, the Sanitation Department dispatched a work force of 1,800 people yesterday and used 30,000 tons of salt to get the city back on its feet. Garbage collection and recycling resumed. Mr. Chalfen said that any merchants or homeowners who neglect to clear their walks by 11 a.m. today would receive summonses.
"We are doing quite well," Mr. Chalfen said. "All the streets in the city are 100 percent plowed and salted. We're working on the intersections and crosswalks. Tomorrow's rush hour will basically be Friday's rush hour, before the snow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers fanned out yesterday to chip away at the ice and snow. Several helped to clear the corner of 125th Street and Lenox Avenue. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Temperatures Drop" shows New York City High and Low Temperatures from Jan. 22 to Feb. 5. (Source: Pennsylvania State University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LIFETIME ENTERTAINMENT SERVICES LLC (50%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS WEATHER (90%); POWER FAILURES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R HAROLD SMITH (92%); EDWARD YANDRICH (67%); MIKE HADDOCK (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



181 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
An Outraged Cuomo Says Small Income Tax Cut Is Not Worth Hurting the Poor

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
THE former Governor of New York sounds outraged. Disgusted. Cut services to the poor so everyone else can get a small tax cut? Risk hurting the homeless and the elderly? Let the sickly fend for themselves?
Not if Mario M. Cuomo were still in charge. Those who wonder what Mr. Cuomo would have done if he had won in November need wonder no more. He claims he would have denied New Yorkers an income tax cut as proudly as Gov. George E. Pataki offers it. 
 "I would have gathered all constituencies, and I would have said, O.K., we have a huge problem, we accept there's going to be hard decisions to make," Mr. Cuomo said in a telephone interview -- his first public pronouncement on his successor's post-election policies. "But are you really telling us that the tax cut is so important you must do the following dire things: hurt elderly people by forcing them into nursing homes by cutting their care at home, reduce the shelter allowance which threatens people with homelessness, cut off benefits after 90 days, which could leave people starving?"
Delaying the income tax cut would "buy back" some of the pain, said Mr. Cuomo, who also pledged during the campaign to cut income taxes but never clarified when he would do so or precisely by what amount. He concedes that delaying a long-promised income tax cut once again would hardly close the budget gap, since Mr. Pataki says it is $5 billion (including about $1 billion in both personal and corporate tax cuts), and the tax reduction Mr. Cuomo had in mind would have saved only $500 million to $840 million, depending on who is counting.
Still, the former Governor contends that he could have made up the budget shortfall without the breathtaking spending cuts Mr. Pataki announced last week -- 40 percent of them in Medicaid, welfare, Home Relief and other social services. Instead, Mr. Cuomo said he would have borrowed more and, like Mr. Pataki, ordered some layoffs, held education spending constant and increased tuition at the state university. "But I would have recognized where real human beings are hurting."
In other words, he would have dealt with this budget no differently than he dealt with others, despite criticism that he and the Legislature worsened the problem by failing to cut the budget sooner. The issue is less fiscal than human, Mr. Cuomo argued, his voice rising, as if the campaign is not over and the Democratic candidate is conducting his own debate:
"THIS is the great THEM argument," he said. "The Republicans are saying 'this is how we won America in November, by coming out against welfare, saying to every rich person, this is one place where it will not hurt to cut -- cut the poor, it will only hurt THEM.' When they do Medicaid, it is THEM again. Don't talk about Medicaid in terms of hospitals, in terms of nice white people who are sick or who are elderly -- it's almost always THEM."
It is interesting, bordering on quaint, to hear the former Governor articulating traditional liberal values at a time when Democrats seem cowed into compromise by November's triumphant Republicans. Even the President favors a middle-class tax cut, and in Albany, the powerful Speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, denounces much of the Governor's budget, but has conceded a tax cut to Mr. Pataki.
A mistake, said Mr. Cuomo, arguing that Albany Democrats should have resisted the tax cut from the beginning.
But they did not. Indeed, critics on either side of the aisle have been few. Even Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who crossed his party last fall to endorse Mr. Cuomo and now is obviously trying to return to the fold, called the new Governor's budget "sensitive to the needs of the city."
No way, said Mr. Cuomo, who contends that the city will suffer inordinately from many of the budget cuts, because it has most of the state's welfare and Medicaid recipients, and a large hospital system.
"I have not talked to him, but I think the Mayor is very well aware of the truth," he said. "I think he is trying as hard as he can to cooperate with the Governor right now and I understand his position. But my prediction is it is inevitable the Mayor is going to have to disagree with the Governor because of the impact of these proposed cuts on New York City."
BUT what of the Giuliani administration's claim that the Pataki budget would actually help the city by cutting programs? Under that theory, the city saves money when the state cancels a benefit -- personal care at home under Medicaid, for instance -- because the city can piggy-back on the cut: it would no longer have to match state spending because the service would disappear.
Or would it? Not likely, suggests Mr. Cuomo, who expects the city will be driven by the courts or humanitarian impulses or both to step in where the state abdicated -- at an even higher cost.
He challenges another popular theory -- that government will reduce welfare "dependency" by insisting that adults, including some mothers, work.
"Work? Where?" asked Mr. Cuomo, who had a modest workfare program that had limited success. "Who will pay them? Look, in '86 or '87, the welfare lists were at the lowest level in 17 years. Why? Because the economy was the best it was in 17 years. There were jobs. It happened like magic. I didn't do anything magic. There was work.
"And as soon as the recession came, unemployment lists went up and so did welfare. Insist that people work, I agree. If there is work."
But what he calls "the seduction of easy generalities" is clearly succeeding with voters, and as dismayed as he is, Mr. Cuomo said he was not surprised: "It's what's happening in Washington. It's what's happening here. Gingrich is taking on welfare, beating up on government, talking about less money, and that is popular.
"Politicians are saying, 'the first rule is survival,' " said Mario Cuomo, who, after all, knows more about the subject than most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CARE-AT-HOME INDIANA INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES TAX RELIEF (92%); INCOME TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); AGING (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PURNICK, JOYCE EDDIE GEORGE (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



182 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2711 words

HEADLINE: Hard Labor -- A special report.;
Despite Tough Laws, Sweatshops Flourish

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
A 4-year-old girl plays with a cloth doll in an aisle of a small, dingy garment factory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, while her mother sews thin cotton sweaters nearby.
A 44-year-old immigrant from China works 12 hours a day, seven days a week, in a windowless garment shop in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, earning $200 on a good week -- or less than $2.50 an hour. 
 At three garment shops on different floors of a grimy industrial building in Long Island City, Queens, the fire exits are sealed shut by metal gates with large padlocks.
The scenes may sound like Jacob Riis's descriptions of squalid New York City garment factories a century ago, but they are strikingly contemporary. Sweatshops still exist in New York, 104 years after Riis first chronicled dangerous physical conditions and exploitive labor practices in apparel factories on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
In fact, they are flourishing despite a host of laws that have accumulated since Riis's days -- rules on labor, health, safety and immigration designed to flush them out and, if necessary, shut them down.
The state, in response to complaints from the industry and unions, created a specialized unit of 20 labor investigators in 1987 responsible solely for cracking down on garment factories that flout wage and safety laws. But experts say that at least 50, if not 60 investigators, would be needed to truly curb the abuses.
And the state does not get much assistance. The number of Federal labor investigators has declined every year for the last five years; the Immigration and Naturalization Service has only about 30 agents to inspect all businesses in southern New York State, and the city's Fire Department inspects factories once a year, at best.
The shops continue to thrive because of dramatic changes in the apparel industry, which in New York has shifted from the large factories that once replaced sweatshops back to the small shops themselves. And the new shops, which are so mobile they can open and close practically overnight, operate in an insular, non-English-speaking world of immigrants that is difficult to regulate under the best of circumstances.
As a result, nearly 2,000 sweatshops operate openly throughout New York City, in the garment center and Chinatown in Manhattan, in Sunset Park and Williamsburg in Brooklyn, in Long Island City and Corona in Queens, and in the South Bronx.
They generally employ 20 to 50 workers, many of them illegal immigrants, willing to suffer long hours, low pay and miserable working conditions just to have a job. Most shops are owned by immigrants, too, now primarily from China and Korea, just as their predecessors came from Italy and Eastern Europe. They pay their workers in cash and often deny them the minimum wage, overtime, holidays or any other benefits.
Some of these sweatshops are remarkably bright and spacious, with fluorescent lighting, freshly painted walls and even river views. But there are still those that rival the most sordid garment factories described and photographed by Riis in "How the Other Half Lives," which was first published in 1890.
In these shops, holes in warping floors are covered by plywood boards. Sprinkler systems, unmaintained, no longer work. Electrical wiring dangles dangerously overhead. And 84 years after the Triangle Shirtwaist Company fire killed 146 garment workers, fire exits are covered by metal gates that are padlocked -- as was the case in six of eight garment shops in Williamsburg and Long Island City inspected in a single day last November by state labor investigators.
In Sunset Park, a tiny garment factory operates inside a two-story cinder-block building that used to be an auto repair shop. It has no windows. Twenty people work inside, and the only fresh air comes when the door, a wide metal garage door, is open.
"In the summertime, the temperature inside is so hot," said a worker there, a Chinese immigrant who gave only his last name, Wou. "There is no ventilation at all."
Mr. Wou, who came to New York from Shanghai last year, sews lapels and collars onto women's shirts. Each shirt requires 10 to 15 minutes of labor, and earns him 60 cents.
Sewing 12 hours a day, six or seven days a week, he makes about $200. And he seethes because he has calculated what he would earn if his boss were willing to abide by the law and pay him the minimum wage and overtime: $450 a week.
"I want very much to change the situation, but I don't know how to do it and I don't have the power to do it," Mr. Wou said through an interpreter.
 
'Fertile Soil'
 Desperate Workers In Thriving Shops
 There are at least 2,000 sweatshops in New York State, the overwhelming majority of them in New York City, state labor officials estimate. They are thriving precisely because of people like Mr. Wou, immigrants desperate for work, unable to speak English, and either ignorant of their rights under American laws or afraid to assert those rights.
"The fertile soil for sweatshops is an immigrant community living in fear," said Thomas Glubiak, who oversees the unit created by the State Labor Department.
The resurgence is fueled, too, by severe economic pressures on local manufacturers to keep prices low because of competition from factories in Asia and Latin America, where labor costs are a fraction of those here.
Inside New York's shops, as in others in Los Angeles, Miami and El Paso, thousands of immigrants, legal and illegal, do not even make the minimum wage, which is $4.25 an hour. Most are forced by employers to work overtime hours, at straight-time wages, if they want to keep their jobs. Under state and Federal law, overtime wages must be paid when factory workers put in more than 40 hours a week.
Ying Chan, for instance, said she has worked in sweatshops in Chinatown and Sunset Park almost continuously since coming to New York 15 years ago from southern China. Mrs. Chan, 55, said she usually works from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. on weekdays and somewhat shorter days on weekends.
She has never been paid overtime and has usually made less than the minimum wage, Mrs. Chan said. Her pay has varied almost every week because she is paid by the garment, with her employers dictating the terms. Paying by piece rates is legal, provided that the employee's pay, when computed on an hourly basis, is at least the minimum wage.
Mrs. Chan said her wages have fluctuated from a low of about $20 a day to a high of about $50 a day.
"I have had no time to take care of my family," she said through an interpreter. "We have to work on Saturdays and Sundays, seven days a week."
Barriers of language and culture have sealed off many sweatshop workers from the American labor mainstream and the basic protections of Federal and state labor laws.
"They don't complain, they are desperate for work and they are easy prey for business opportunists," said Maria Echaveste, administrator of the United States Labor Department's wage and hour division.
Even workers who do speak English and know how to protect themselves often do not dare. For instance, a 26-year-old shop worker from Lima, Peru, said she was familiar with American labor laws. But she felt helpless to demand more than the $3 an hour she makes for trimming finished dresses, placing them on hangers and wrapping them in plastic.
"I can't do nothing," she said in newly learned English. "If I claim the overtime, they will fire me."
Many Chinese immigrants who work in Chinese-owned sweatshops said they were afraid that if they spoke up, their employers would not only dismiss them but also have their names published in New York's Chinese language newspapers -- effectively blacklisting them.
And like a 43-year-old man from Puebla, Mexico, many sweatshop workers know that they can report their bosses to state labor investigators, but fail to do so out for one reason alone.
"Por temor," he said. Out of fear.
 
Cracking Down
When Time Cards Don't Match Up
 Several dozen workers were busy making black-and-white plaid skirts early one morning when Jong Kim and Linda Rojas-Galvez, state labor investigators, dropped by P. S. Pleating at 325 West 38th Street in Manhattan. The investigators first counted the workers, 37 spread out over the shop's two floors, and then the time cards in slots next to the time clock.
There were only 18 cards, a telltale sign that workers are being paid off the books, and probably at less than the minimum wage.
The investigators immediately began a formal inquiry. Mrs. Rojas-Galvez interviewed several workers in Spanish, who said that they were not paid for overtime work but that lately there had been little overtime anyway. The workers said they were paid $5 an hour.
The investigators prepared written charges against the factory for failing to maintain proper payroll records. Leonard De Rosairo, Mrs. Rojas-Galvez's supervisor, said he also suspected the workers were not telling the truth about their wages; he said the workers might have been coached on what to tell Labor Department officials.
The investigators scheduled an appointment for the factory's owner to provide complete payroll records for inspection. If the payroll records are incomplete or even nonexistent for some workers, the owner can be fined a maximum of $1,500 for a first violation and $3,000 for subsequent violations. There are larger fines for more serious violations, like paying below the minimum wage and failing to pay overtime; these can be as much as 25 percent of the wages in question.
Two hours later, after a visit to Blue Ribbon Belt on the 10th floor, a new shop with no payroll records, the investigators descended four floors to a bustling shop called Pink Feather Inc.
Several very young-looking womens were among 59 workers assembling blouses. One, Flora Elisa Valdez Zomora, who was sewing shoulder pads into the shirts, insisted at first that she was 21. But she finally admitted, while speaking Spanish with Mrs. Rojas-Galvez, that she was only 17.
Another woman, who was folding shirts nearby, said she was 22, but she could not recall the year she was born.
The shop owner, Julianne Song, a smiling but nervous woman, was cited for employing minors. Ms. Song told the investigators that she had hired the girls only a few hours earlier.
(It is illegal for minors to work in the shops, but it is not against the law for them to simply be there -- like the 4-year-old girl playing with her doll in the Williamsburg garment shop. State investigators try to discourage the presence of children, who are often brought by parents who cannot find or afford day care, because even young children are sometimes put to work helping a parent who works on a piece rate.)
Five minutes later, the three investigators were standing in the lobby of the building, comparing notes before heading off to lunch. Ms. Valdez Zomora, the Mexican teen-ager who had just admitted that she was under age, walked glumly from an elevator and out the front door. She had just been dismissed.
 
New Strategies
Industry Breakup Mars Enforcement
 Changes in the structure of the women's garment industry have simultaneously made it easier for sweatshops to operate and more difficult for government agencies to root them out.
When big apparel manufacturers made their own garments in New York, the industry was relatively stable. State and Federal labor officials could readily inspect factories and enforce the laws. Unions could organize large shops and negotiate contracts.
But garment manufacturers do very little actual manufacturing these days. They design and market their goods, but they contract out the cutting and sewing of garments to small shops in New York and other American cities and to large shops overseas.
The breakup of the industry over the last three decades into a vast, loose network of manufacturers, jobbers, contractors and subcontractors has defused the manufacturers' responsibility for the wages and safety of factory workers.
So government investigators and union leaders have had to devise new strategies. The State Labor Department created the apparel industry task force to regulate sweatshops and enforce the laws.
But with only 20 investigators, and with relatively small fines that for some shop owners are just part of the cost of doing business, the unit has not been able to eradicate sweatshops, or even curtail their numbers significantly.
And the number of Federal labor investigators has declined sharply in recent years because of budget constraints, while the investigators' responsibilities for monitoring many industries has expanded. There were 804 Federal investigators in the country in 1993, compared with 970 in 1989, according to the General Accounting Office -- a drop of nearly 20 percent.
The city's Fire Department, which has prime responsibility for insuring that fire exits are not locked, also strains under budget problems and conflicting priorities. Local fire companies are supposed to inspect every factory in their districts once a year. But the inspections take a back seat to higher priorities, including fighting fires, of course, and maintaining hydrants.
"The problem is when we have too much work, and we don't get to a building every year," said Edmund P. Cunningham, assistant chief of the department's Fire Prevention Bureau. "Maybe it's every two years."
 
Manufacturer Links
 Tying Small Shops To Big Companies
 Labor officials are experimenting with new ways to tie large manufacturers to the small shops that commit abuses while under contract with the manufacturers.
The Federal Labor Department, for example, has sought voluntary agreements with well-known manufacturers to police their small contractors.
"When you focus on stable companies, you have a reputation, a public persona," said Ms. Echaveste, the head of the department's wage and hour division. "That reputation is very important to the company. Reputation is not significant to some small contracting shop."
The Gap, the retail chain that now also manufactures clothing, has hired former Federal labor investigators to train its contractors on following the laws and to audit their operations, checking for violations of minimum wages and overtime, Ms. Echaveste said.
Labor officials would like to see the Gap become a model for other big manufacturers.
The Federal Labor Department gets the manufacturers' attention by invoking a measure in Federal law, known as the "hot goods" provision, that can link abusive contracting shops with their manufacturers. The law prohibits the shipping of goods produced through violations of the wage and safety laws. When government investigators find a sweatshop that owes money to its employees, Federal officials can seize the garments, even after the contractor has shipped them to the manufacturer.
But garments often move very quickly, before investigators can seize them.
Union leaders believe that stronger union representation in sweatshops would stop abuses. But traditional organizing methods are useless when dealing with small, highly mobile contractors.
"The traditional organizing strategy has been shop by shop," said Francisco Chang, an organizer for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. "But if you do that, the shops just shut down and move."
Instead, the union is trying an experiment aimed at organizing a large portion of New York City's sweatshop workers simultaneously. It has set up three workers' centers to reach sweatshop employees, one in Sunset Park, another in Williamsburg and a third in the Manhattan garment center itself. Mr. Chang runs the Manhattan center, where nonunion immigrant shop workers can come at night for English language classes or to seek help getting back wages.
The long-term goal is to create enough solidarity among sweatshop workers so that the union can organize the shops on such a broad scale that the owners cannot defeat them just by closing down.
Mr. Chang contended that large manufacturers also contribute to the problem. They deliberately foster price competition among the small contractors, he said, all but forcing them to cut corners and underpay workers to obtain contracts and remain in business.
"It's a tough industry to crack," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A child plays with dolls as her mother works in a garment shop, Big Apple Knitting, in Long Island City, Queens. It is illegal for minors to work in the shops, though it is not against the law for them to be there. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Clockwise from top: Workers at their sewing machines at Steve's Apparel, in Queens (Edward Keating/The New York Times); Jong Kim, center, and Linda Rojas-Galvez, right, state labor investigators, inspecting P. S. Pleating on West 38th Street in Manhattan (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); Leonard De Rosairo, a supervisor of inspectors, after examining time cards at P. S. Pleating, and a locked door at Steve's Apparel. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); EUROPE (50%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LABOR; SWEATSHOPS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WAGES AND SALARIES APPAREL MFG (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EMPLOYMENT (84%); OVERTIME (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); REFUGEES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN JACOB RIIS (69%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



183 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Orders Refunding of Millions in Property Taxes on Once-Proud Office Building

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A State Supreme Court justice has ordered New York City to repay millions in property taxes on a once-proud 1920's office tower in lower Manhattan that has had virtually no tenants since 1991 and, in the depressed state of the downtown real estate market, no prospect of attracting any in the foreseeable future.
In a ruling reflecting the sharp economic decline of lower Manhattan, where the recession and changes in the financial industry have left many buildings with vast amounts of vacant office space, Justice Stanley Parness said the city had been "disingenuous" and "ludicrous" in assessing the value of the building, 67 Broad Street, at $34.5 million for 1991-92 and $29 million for 1992-93 for tax purposes. 
 Noting that the 33-story tower, at the corner of Beaver Street, had no rental income after 1991 except from a few street-level stores and that it appeared to have no prospects of a turnaround, the judge cut its assessed value to $6.5 million for 1991-92 and to $4.2 million for 1992-93.
He also ordered the city to reduce the tax bill for the two years to $1.1 million, from $6.3 million, and to make a refund of about $7 million to cover those years and several others since 1987 in which the assessments were in dispute.
"There was no real market for buildings such as the subject property," the judge said in a ruling that went unnoticed when issued on Jan. 5. "Indeed, even the city's appraiser conceded that no upturn can be seen for these properties in the near future. Rather than recognizing these developing financial problems, the city continued to raise taxes by inflating values."
Paul Rephen, a chief counsel in the Corporation Counsel's office, which represented the city in the suit, said the city recognized the plight of this building and others in the area and was not likely to appeal.
City Finance Department officials said the court's decision did not portend an avalanche of lawsuits and a major loss of city tax revenues from other distressed properties in lower Manhattan. They said the assessed valuations and property taxes of 95 office buildings in the neighborhood had already been cut sharply, by 46 percent since 1991.
While Wall Street remains the symbol of finance, the flight of brokerage firms, banks and other corporations has left the neighborhood in decline. Old office buildings that once throbbed with activity now echo with emptiness, and real estate experts say the prospects of luring new tenants to occupy small floors with poor ventilation, old wiring and outdated architecture are bleak.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani last month announced a major program to stabilize and revive the economy of lower Manhattan by reducing taxes, changing zoning rules, improving transportation and taking other steps to keep companies in the area and to attract a broader diversity of new businesses and more residents.
In addition, a newly formed business improvement district, the Alliance for Downtown New York, financed by property owners in lower Manhattan, has joined the effort to improve the neighborhood's streets, upgrade public transportation, create more housing, preserve business in the area and attract new enterprises.
Carl Weisbrod, president of the alliance, said the city's property tax revenues from lower Manhattan had declined by about $115 million a year between 1991 and 1994. He praised the Mayor's plans for the area and said the downtown revival was essential to the whole city.
In many ways, 67 Broad Street typifies the area's problems. Standing like a ghost in the shadows of more modern skyscrapers, lacking spacious floors and technological amenities that Wall Street tenants want nowadays, the building, which was built in 1928, thrived for decades as headquarters for financial and information corporations, steamship lines and other companies.
Its last major tenants, ITT World Communications and the Bank of New York, occupied 80 percent of its 33 floors until 1991. But when their leases expired, they joined the exodus of banks, brokerage firms and other concerns that have moved to midtown, the suburbs and other locations to get more space and capabilities for using computers and other high-technology equipment.
The case involved a series of lawsuits against the City Tax Commission filed for tax years from 1987 to 1993 by Beaver and Broad Associates, a partnership that owned 67 Broad but went bankrupt after the loss of the major tenants. The building is now owned by the Principal Mutual Insurance Company.
William E. Banfield of the law firm of Podell, Rothman, Schechter & Banfield, which represented the plaintiffs, said the suits asked for lower assessments and taxes and contended that the city had overstated the building's value by "ignoring the reality that major tenants were gone and that the property had almost no income and no prospects as an office building."
The city contended that the building had tenants and income sufficient to justify higher assessments until the end of 1991, and Justice Parness largely agreed with this. The city also asserted that properties must shoulder a fair share of taxes even though there are times when they have little or no income.
But Justice Parness called the city appraisals unrealistic for the 1991-92 and 1992-93 tax years and ordered a refund. He did not rule on present or future assessments but said that there appeared to be little hope that the building would find new tenants or a buyer or that it could be modernized profitably.
"Sixty-seven Broad Street has joined similar once-proud office buildings which now line Broad and other downtown streets standing as empty monuments to that time when downtown was a great financial center of the world," the judge said. "That time has apparently passed, and whether these buildings can again become economically viable in the future has yet to be shown."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; OFFICE BUILDINGS PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ZONING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



184 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Welfare

 BODY:
The number of people receiving public assistance in the New York region has begun to level off in recent years. Welfare experts say that the number of people qualifying for assistance under the two largest welfare programs - Aid to Families With Dependant Children, and General Assistance (Home Relief) -- has fallen as the economy has recovered. Benefit amounts per case have held relatively steady since early in the decade. To help save the $5 billion needed to balance the state's budget and pay for an income tax cut, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York last week proposed the deepest cuts in the history of state welfare programs.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Welfare" shows average monthly welfare recipients, welfare spending from 1990 to 1994 and maximum monthly benefit per case for the Tri-State area. (Sources: : N.Y. State Dept. of Social Services, N.J. Dept. of Human Services, Conn. Dept. of Social Services, N.Y. State Division of the Budget, Center for the Study of the States)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (84%); TAX RELIEF (84%); TAX LAW (82%); INCOME TAX (51%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



185 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: A Smart Move on China

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's announcement of 100 percent punitive tariffs on more than $1 billion of Chinese exports signals a consistent, well-targeted and well-executed policy for combating Chinese piracy of American software, movies and music. With careful diplomacy, the Administration can build on this move to toughen its stand on human rights and other issues.
The trade sanctions announced Saturday were carefully designed to win maximum support from U.S. business. They may not force an agreement before actually coming into effect, along with Chinese countermeasures, on Feb. 26. Although both sides would like to avoid a trade war, the Chinese leadership now seems paralyzed by the imminent succession of Deng Xiaoping and afraid to make any compromises with foreigners. But the "intellectual property rights" that are at the heart of this dispute are the right place for Washington to make a stand. They represent the future of America's economy and global commerce. 
 The appetite for American culture and information-age technology is worldwide. These sectors of the economy represent America's great hope for future dynamism and prosperity. Tolerating the massive circulation of cheaply made Chinese reproductions, which are now sold throughout Asia, would seriously undermine American producers.
In an earlier round of this dispute in 1992, China passed strong laws against copyright piracy. But Beijing has failed to enforce these laws even in state-owned companies.
Copyright piracy is an issue American business rightly feels strongly about, to the point of being willing to risk a trade war. Key Republicans, like House Speaker Newt Gingrich, have been quick to support the Administration's stand.
Washington aimed its sanctions to minimize disruption of the U.S. economy by avoiding components like computer circuit boards and consumer products like toys for which China was the only, or principal, source.
The message of this strong stand on intellectual-property issues will also be heard in other Asian and third-world countries where copyright piracy is a growing problem.
Critics rightly lament that similar firmness was not shown last year over the issue of human rights. A State Department report last week newly documented China's flagrant human rights abuses, which appear to have gotten worse in the months since the Clinton Administration broke the link it had earlier established between China's human rights performance and its trade privileges.
But the challenge now is not to rewrite the past but to better integrate U.S. human rights, military and trade objectives.
The imminent nomination of a new U.S. Ambassador to Beijing should be the occasion for a careful reconsideration of Washington's diplomatic approach. A White House meeting on China policy already scheduled for this week should no longer limit itself to fine-tuning.
While the strategy of engagement is right, a more tough-minded approach is in order, not just on trade but on questions from human rights to repression in Tibet and Chinese threats against Taiwan. President Clinton's reported nominee, former Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee, knows how quickly and forcefully Republican senators like Jesse Helms, Frank Murkowski and Mitch McConnell will raise these issues if the Administration does not.
By refusing to link trade sanctions to these other objectives the Administration limits its leverage. Since the Chinese military may help pick the next political leadership, military cooperation between Washington and Beijing should be maintained. But there are other pressure points, such as China's intense desire for an American Presidential visit and gestures that might increase the international prestige of President Jiang Zemin.
Good relations between the U.S. and China are in the long-term interests of both countries -- America needs China's markets and diplomatic cooperation, China needs America's capital exports and its strategic alliance against any future expansionist power in Asia. Those relations will not achieve their full potential until Beijing's leaders pay more heed to international trading rules and the human rights of their own people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (54%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (54%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); EDITORIALS; COPYRIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (63%); ESPIONAGE (59%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



186 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
The Lost Leader

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Under the leadership of Newt Gingrich, radical legislation is moving through the House of Representatives at an extraordinary pace. Bills that would profoundly change the structure of government and its functions follow one upon the other.
Equally striking is the failure of leadership on the other side. The man who should be telling the American people what is at stake here -- explaining what the real impact of the Gingrich revolution would be -- has been almost completely silent. That is President Clinton. 
 Except for a glancing comment in his State of the Union speech, Mr. Clinton has had nothing to say about the constitutional amendment that was rushed through the House. It is called, misleadingly, the balanced budget amendment. What it would do is give Congressional minorities the power to block most meaningful legislation. It would subvert the governmental system designed at the Constitutional Convention of 1787.
The amendment is now before the Senate, where Robert Byrd of West Virginia is leading the fight against it. Senator Byrd is highly effective in the Senate, but he cannot educate the country about the economic and political dangers of this superficially appealing proposal. That is the President's job.
Mr. Clinton has applauded, and promised to sign, the unfunded mandates bill now before Congress. The idea is that the Federal Government should not impose rules on the states unless it pays the cost. That sounds simple, but all kinds of questions lurk in the legislation.
The recent campaign against unfunded mandates has been led by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson of California. He objects to the Federal law requiring states to allow voter registration at Motor Vehicle offices. He complains of the cost, but that is trivial; his real concern is that more of those new voters might be Democrats. Is the unfunded mandates bill going to interfere in the future with a Federal power as undeniably legitimate as the power to regulate Federal elections?
Then there is the plan to redo the omnibus crime legislation passed by Congress last year. The House Judiciary Committee has just approved a massive bill that would radically change whole areas of the law.
For example, the bill would greatly restrict the ability of courts to force changes in prison conditions so cruel that they have been found unconstitutional: systematic rape, medical neglect, overcrowding.
The Gingrich team's next planned systemic attack is on the civil litigation process. A bill now before the Judiciary Committee would make it much harder for private citizens to sue investment firms or stock manipulators for securities fraud, or to sue manufacturers over dangerous products. That bill should be on the floor soon.
Still ahead is the assault, promised in the Gingrich Contract With America, on environmental regulation. One proposal is to treat many rules to protect the environment as legal "takings" of private property for which the Government would have to pay -- and could not afford.
Does Bill Clinton oppose those ideas? Will he talk about the values they would uproot? Will he veto the legislation if it reaches him? No one can be sure. So far he has drawn only one line in the sand, promising to veto a bill that undoes the ban on assault weapons enacted last year.
It will be a different America if the radicals have their way. That is what makes it so stunning that the President has had nothing much to say about what is happening. Nor have members of his Cabinet.
The argument has been made to me that Mr. Clinton has good political reasons to bide his time: the hope that the Senate will turn back the tide, that Republicans will divide. But meanwhile he is allowing Speaker Gingrich and his people to define the political debate, often in misleading terms. The bill denying victims the right to sue wrongdoers is called the Common Sense Legal Reform Act.
Perhaps President Clinton reads his good recent poll figures as a sign that he need not fight this battle. If so, his political instinct has deserted him. If he allows the results of one mid-term election to transform basic national policies and structures -- allows that without a fight -- many will not forgive him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); LITIGATION (71%); BUDGETS (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); LEWIS, ANTHONY NEWT GINGRICH (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); ROBERT BYRD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



187 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
. . . And They're Off!

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The best line so far of the '96 Presidential campaign was Bob Dole's, when asked why he was running: "Every country needs a president."
Seemingly offhand and self-mocking; but on second thought, the remark tapped a growing feeling that this country is presidentially bereft. The Oval Office seems somehow vacant; the job is open. 
 Senator Dole was forced to make his pre-announcement because he had to show supporters his candidacy was certain. With Jack Kemp removing himself, Dole needed to move on Kemp's financial and ideological supporters: these are broad-spectrum Republicans, ever-more-quietly pro-life but unabashedly reaching out to minorities and optimists.
Another reason Dole had to move early is that he appears to be the right man in the right job right now. Why waste, on a White House quest, a skilled majority leader, uniquely capable of steering an enthusiastic movement toward the shores of legislative accomplishment?
That achievement requires not just the spirit of compromise, but the knack of deal-making in a matrix of longtime loyalties. Dole possesses that talent.
Too old to run? Newly relaxed, his war wounds remembered but political wounds forgotten, he even flirts with offering those in the electorate and the Young Turks in the party this deal: one term as President and out.
That offer is quintessential Dole, in whose Kama Sutra the most exciting posture is the fallback position. The need to deal is a sign of weakness, but Dole deals from strength: his ally is Al D'Amato, who now can deliver the New York delegation.
Dole sees as his main competition Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, the man who did most to derail the Clinton health train. With Senator Robert Byrd likely to tie up the Senate for five weeks filibustering the balanced-budget amendment, Dole can hit the hustings early to compete with Gramm, whose presence in Washington is not ordinarily as necessary as the majority leader's.
Gramm, once an economics professor, is dogged, intellectually diligent, ideologically consistent and cheerfully uncompromising. He is the anti-Dole, the hope of the rigorous right.
He is successfully raising the millions needed to carry him through the first few primaries. His problem is that he is not likable on the tube because he comes across as too smart, but Gramm is smart enough to improve his likability with lines like: "Can an ugly man be President? We'll see." That gets viewers saying "He's not so ugly, and besides . . ."
Gramm's political problem is Newt "I have no plans to run" Gingrich, who could put together a plan in a hurry come summer. His House will have delivered on most of his "contract," some of which will be blocked in the Senate (where Democrats Daschle, Exon, and Ford -- who voted for the balanced-budget amendment last year -- will likely flip to vote against it now).
Speaker Newt's entry, to carry out his contract as President, would split Gramm's support. Gingrich has announced his intention to vacation in New Hampshire this year.
The open outside-Washington candidate is Lamar Alexander, former Tennessee Governor, who has lined up many Reagan and Bush fund-raisers. The easygoing but purposeful Alexander gives the best "the" speech of any in the race, a sign he knows his message. Friendly admonition: his foreign policy, defeatist on Bosnia, smacks of Bush-Bakerism.
The hidden outside candidate is Gov. Pete Wilson of California, whose noncampaign is getting good exposure. He's pro-choice and relatively centrist, which is good for winning general elections but bad for winning Republican nominations; however, Wilson's proposed denial of schooling to illegal immigrants won the heart of angry skinflints everywhere, and now he's on the tax-cut bandwagon.
In the second tier is Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who is not afraid to oppose the Christian Coalition with his pro-choice stand, and is in the race, I think, to pull the party back toward the center. Dan Quayle will make a bid, as a personal statement, but his poll numbers will be based on name recognition, and the entry of Indiana Senator Richard Lugar -- always a class actor -- will dilute the Hoosier vote.
Next assessment at the first turn. Nixon's semi-prediction -- Wilson-Whitman -- remains a long shot, but . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM PHIL GRAMM (79%); ROBERT BYRD (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



188 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Treatment, Not Jail, Saves Lives and Money;
History of Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gov. George E. Pataki's powerful stand for sentencing reform, seeking alternatives to incarceration for nonviolent, low-level drug offenders (news article, Jan. 30), should hit New York's consciousness with the force of Nixon's opening to China. 
 When I first crusaded for second-felony offender reform of precisely the same dimensions eight years ago, as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Correction, many of my most liberal Democratic colleagues were afraid to join me for fear of alienating even their constituencies. For too many years, I was a lonely legislative voice, although my own conservative constituents generally recognized that my reforms would remove more dangerous offenders off the streets, not fewer.
While the previous Governor also gave some support to our position, the new Republican Governor's strong support merits a warmer welcome. But his proposals will almost certainly face opposition in the State Senate, where prison-building remains for some an attractive source of local economic gains. He will face the challenge of persuading those with such parochial concerns that the state's overall economic interests must be paramount.
Changing the Second Felony Offender Law to give judges options besides incarceration in state prison would, as the Governor suggests, free 3,000 to 4,000 cells a year for use by more dangerous offenders. Once the public realizes that only through rational resource allocation can we really be tough on crime, the wasteful policies of the past will be exposed for what they are. Then we will succeed in making our streets safer while safeguarding our tax dollars.
 
DANIEL L. FELDMAN
Chairman
Assembly Committee on Correction
Albany, Jan. 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); FELONIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PRISONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (66%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); FELDMAN, DANIEL L (ASSEMBLYMAN) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



189 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Mutual and Pension Funds Take a Big Hit in Peso Crisis

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Nearly seven weeks after the Mexican peso began its sharp slide, mutual and pension funds, as opposed to commercial and investment banks, appear to be the biggest losers among American investors. But economists and analysts warn that the pain could spread if Mexico's financial markets decline further.
The rescue plan announced last week by President Clinton caused Mexican stocks to rebound from their lows by more than 10 percent in a single day, but that gain only erased a small part of the losses suffered by investors who held Mexican stocks and bonds when the peso was first devalued on Dec. 20.
Since then, the average total return of 16 Latin American mutual funds, with assets of $ 3.3 billion, declined by 26.7 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. Pension funds, which generally publish their results quarterly, presumably took similar hits. 
 "The market hasn't come close to recouping what it lost, and frankly it won't for a while," said Michael Pettis, managing director of the Weston Group, a New York investment bank that specializes in emerging markets. Indeed, after the initial flush of enthusiasm that greeted the announcement of the rescue plan last week, the Mexican stock market has declined 6.5 percent. But the peso has rebounded 9 percent.
By forestalling the possibility of a complete collapse of Mexico's financial markets, President Clinton's plan directly aided some holders of Mexican bonds and indirectly aided long-term investors, commercial banks and Wall Street investment banks.
The most immediate beneficiaries of the plan are holders of so-called tesobonos, the short-term Mexican peso bonds that are pegged to the value of the dollar. It was the fear of a Mexican default on those bonds, which ballooned from $ 2 billion to $ 28 billion outstanding in 1994, that forced President Clinton to act.
The holders of the tesobonos are spread among a wide range of investors. Of the $ 28 billion outstanding, $ 11 billion are held by Mexican investors, mostly banks, according to Mexico's Finance Minister, Guillermo Ortiz. Japanese investors are said to hold about $ 1 billion of the bonds.
The bulk of those remaining are held by American institutional investors, which used the tesobonos as a way to hold a part of their Latin American portfolios in cash without incurring a significant currency risk.
Commercial banks have a total of $ 54.2 billion in loans to Latin American countries, including $ 17.3 billion to Mexico, according to the Federal Reserve. A collapse in Mexico would have set off a cash crisis that would have imperiled many of those loans.
As it is, most economists are still predicting a recession for Mexico as a result of the crisis. But if the Clinton plan is successful, it will be a much less severe economic downturn than it might have been, increasing the chances that those loans will be repaid.
For investment banks, the plan strongly improves the chances that Mexican stocks will recover in the near future, allowing the recent boom in underwriting and trading emerging-market securities to resume.
Before the crisis, emerging markets had been one of the fastest-growing specialties among investment bankers at Merrill Lynch & Company, Goldman, Sachs & Company and Salomon Brothers. In the last two years, American investment banks underwrote nearly $ 10 billion of Latin American stocks and bonds in the United States, according to the Securities Data Corporation.
Now the pace of that underwriting is likely to decline greatly, eliminating what had been a growing source of revenue for the investment banks. The sooner Mexico bounces back, the sooner revenue levels could rebound.
Unlike mutual and pension funds, the commercial and investment banks appear to have escaped large trading losses when the peso plunged. Chemical Bank said a foreign-exchange trader had lost $ 70 million as a result of unauthorized trading of the peso. But few other banks appear to have been hurt in as striking a fashion.
Salomon Brothers, which announced its fourth-quarter results last week, went out of its way to say that it had made a profit in January, in part to allay fears that it had incurred heavy losses as a result of the peso crisis.
"This is not like Black Monday, where you can expect everyone on the street to get really whacked," said Peter Marber, managing director of the emerging markets group at Wasserstein Perella & Company, referring to the stock market crash on Oct. 19, 1987. "The amount of exposure to these markets varies greatly from shop to shop."
Many professional investors had already reduced their presence in Mexico by the time the peso started to slide. Rising interest rates in the United States, a series of political assassinations and an uprising in Southern Mexico prompted many foreign investors to sell their Mexican investments throughout the year. Many economists even predicted a devaluation of the peso, though none saw a decline against the dollar as large as 40 percent.
Yet despite those danger signals, American mutual and pension funds remained dangerously overexposed, as investors hoped to match the high returns Mexico provided in 1993.
As of Friday, Fidelity Investments' $ 616 million Latin America fund was down 28.2 percent from Dec. 19, according to Morningstar. Dean Witter's $ 347 million TCW/DW Latin American Growth fund was down 25.1 percent in the same period, according to Morningstar.
As a result of the debacle and the poor bond market last year, Fidelity has shaken up the management of its fixed-income funds and its main Latin American fund manager resigned to join another firm. In addition, Dean Witter changed the management of its Latin fund.
Investors simply did not understand the risks of investing in emerging markets, said Nariman Behravesh, chief international economist at DRI/McGraw Hill. They invested so much that they were forced to sell holdings when the crisis hit rather than stay put until an eventual upturn.
"You have to have a long-term outlook," Mr. Behravesh said. "If you have a 5- to 10-year perspective, Mexico is going to give you some nice returns."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 1995, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column in Business Day yesterday, about the effects of the Mexican peso's decline on American investors, referred incorrectly to the responsibilities of a mutual funds manager who recently resigned from Fidelity Investments to join another investment firm. He managed three Fidelity funds specializing in bond investments in emerging overseas markets, not Fidelity's main Latin American fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (90%); MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); WESTON GROUP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; MEXICO (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



190 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 70 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
The Speaker's Party Favors

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: RIDGEWOOD

 BODY:
Representative Marge Roukema, a Republican from this Bergen County suburb, has been asked by Speaker Newt Gingrich to be a party leader on issues of child support. She is to testify on the subject today before a House panel. And Representative James Saxton of Vincentown, vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, will lead the Republican fight against President Clinton's proposal to increase the minimum wage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIM SAXTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1995



191 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Friends of Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Former Gov. Jim Florio is one of many state residents to give to President Clinton's legal defense fund. It was established to defray the President's legal expenses, including those connected to the Whitewater investigation and accusations of sexual harassment made by Paula Jones. Mr. Florio gave $1,000. 
 Other New Jersey contributors, according to a report released in Washington, included: Hilary Ballon, a Columbia University professor from Franklin Lakes, $1,000; Eleanor C. Demarest, an investor from Summit, $1,000; Beatrice Dermer, an unemployed Freehold resident, $200; Orin S. Kramer, an investment manager from Fort Lee, $1,000; Richard C. Leone of Princeton, a former State Treasurer and now president of the 20th-Century Fund, $1,000.
Last week, the fund was reported to be about $830,000 in the red.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; ; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JONES, PAULA; FLORIO, JAMES J; STOUT, DAVID; BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1995



192 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Our Forked Tongue

BYLINE: By John Kenneth Galbraith; John Kenneth Galbraith, professor emeritus of economics at Harvard, is an adviser on English usage for the American Heritage Dictionary.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
In these last years, and notably in these past months, we have heard much of the burden imposed by government on the citizen. Nothing has been more emphasized in speech and possibly also in thought. This comment is not meant to regret this concern, as some might suppose: rather, it is to clarify the way the word "burden" is now employed. It has a very special connotation, of which all who cherish good or anyhow accepted English usage should be aware.
As now used, "burden" applies only to a very specific range of government activities. Many are not a burden and are not to be so described. Defense expenditure is definitely not a burden; indeed, increases therein are now being proposed. That there is now no wholly plausible enemy does not affect the situation. Similarly, in recent years large sums, in a range upward from $50 billion, have been appropriated to bail out failed financial institutions, specifically the savings and loan associations. This was not a burden. A clear distinction must be made between a burden and an admittedly unfortunate and costly financial misadventure. 
 Social Security is not a burden; in no politically acceptable discourse is it so described. Nor are farm price and income supports, although recipients regularly command incomes of a hundred grand or more. Medicare is basically not a burden and is not to be so described. There are many lesser items of expenditure that are not a burden, including health care for members of the Congress.
On the other hand, some functions of government are a heavy burden. Notable are welfare payments, especially those to unmarried mothers and their children. Likewise expenditures for food stamps and child nutrition. While Medicare is not a burden, Medicaid is a real burden.
Education is a somewhat special case. While private education is not a burden, public education, especially in our cities, can be a very heavy load. Here, as elsewhere, burden bears no necessary relation to cost.
And here one sees the rule by which students of contemporary English usage should be guided. Whether a public function or service or regulation is or is not a burden depends on the income of the individual so helped or favored.
As with all linguistic rules there can be exceptions. The National Endowment for the Arts, support to public broadcasting, a few other items not specifically designed for the poor, are a burden. The exceptions, as ever, make the rule.
It is the generally accepted purpose of language to convey meaning. All who use or hear the word "burden" should know the precise and subtle meaning that it conveys. Basically something is a burden when it is not for the rich, not for the merely affluent, but for the poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LINGUISTICS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGETS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CHILDREN (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); BANK FAILURES (68%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (62%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (60%); MEDICAID (58%); SAVINGS & LOANS (53%); NUTRITION (50%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1995



193 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: One-Stop Shopping in the Mini-Bar

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Hotel mini-bars, long a solace for weary business travelers looking for a quiet drink after a hard day on the road, are now becoming veritable self-service bazaars where almost anything that fits inside is available -- for a price.
The usual array of snacks, sodas and spirits is still offered, of course, but nowadays the highly profitable guest-room refreshment centers also dispense vitamins, disposable cameras, condoms and more. And no longer the province of luxury hotels and resorts, mini-bars are increasingly showing up in midpriced hotel rooms -- and even finding their way into economy lodgings. 
 Hotels are expanding their mini-bars, which have been around for 20 years, because they are such money-makers. A can of Coca-Cola, for instance, is frequently marked up to $2.50.
"In-room bars typically account for only 2 percent of the food and beverage turnover, but 20 percent of its profits," said Andreas Jacobs, chairman and chief executive of the privately held Minibar Group A.G. of Zug, Switzerland, which owns several companies in the United States and Canada that sell and install mini-bars and offer consulting services.
Like most hotel managers, David Dressler, room service manager at the Four Seasons Hotel in New York, will not talk specific numbers. But he acknowledges that mini-bars "are a tremendous profit center."
Tastes of mini-bar users once ran heavily to alcoholic beverages, but that is no longer true. Of the top 10 sellers in 1993, colas outsold light beer by four to one, bottled water outsold light beer three to one, and even orange juice was more popular. Hard liquor, while still a mini-bar staple because of its higher markup, did not make the top 10 sales list.
Mini-bars, once no bigger than tiny refrigerators, can now be custom-made for larger spaces, with a section for refrigerated foods and another for snacks and other products. Literary tastes can be satisfied at mini-bars in Chicago's Palmer House, whose current paperback book offerings include "For Love Alone" by Ivana Trump and "Get Shorty" by Elmore Leonard. Mini-bars at Si Redds Oasis Resort in Mesquite, Nev., periodically offer a casino coupon book good for a free $1 wager. Other items available in mini-bars around the country include T-shirts, golf balls, playing cards, hosiery, greeting cards, sunglasses and lip balm.
Condoms can be purchased in the mini-bars of the Mondrian Hotel in West Hollywood, Calif. "Condoms come in our 'care package,' and they're almost as big a seller in our mini-bars as Pringles," said Amilcar Rivera, who oversees the mini-bars in the hotel.
These days, many guests are disappointed if their rooms lack mini-bars. Visitors from Europe and South America, where mini-bars are widespread, are particularly fond of the amenity.
"Until about six months ago we only had mini-bars in about 450 of the 2,400 rooms in our two hotels," said Leora S. Halpern, a spokeswoman for the Sheraton New York and the Sheraton Manhattan. "But so many guests wrote on comment cards that they wanted mini-bars, now we have them in every room."
The mini-bar industry has long been hobbled by the patchwork of state, county and local laws regulating alcoholic beverages. Only eight years ago, such laws effectively banned mini-bars in 32 states. But many obstacles to the sale of alcohol, including alcohol in mini-bars, have since disappeared. They were swept aside by the lure of added tax revenues, the same incentive that overcame objections to lotteries and other legalized gambling in some states.
Some city and county governments in states including Tennessee, Kentucky and Utah continue to ban alcohol sales. What has carried the day in many states, however, is the argument that it is safer to imbibe in a hotel room than to drive back from a bar under the influence.
And it beats getting lost looking for a drinking establishment in a strange town.
As a result of the shift in attitudes, the self-dubbed "refreshment center" industry is euphoric. "We expect to grow 16 to 20 percent a year over the next few years," said Stephen Reid, executive vice president of Minibar North America in Bethesda, Md., a subsidiary of the Minibar Group.
Steve Sunyich, president of Room Systems Inc., a newcomer to the business based in St. George, Utah, said, "We'll probably grow as much this year as the previous four years we've been in business."
The industry, which sold or leased about $80 million worth of mini-bars last year, still has a long way to go. There may be as many as 380,000 mini-bars, but that is only enough to fill about 12 percent of the nation's 3.2 million hotel rooms. No firm numbers exist, but estimates of total sales of items from mini-bars run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
A handful of industry officials think the potential is most promising in economy lodgings, partly because only 4 percent now have refreshment centers. "A few years ago you almost never found mini-bars in the one- or two-diamond properties," said Kris Rashedi, director of industry evaluations for the American Automobile Association, which ranks hotels from one to five diamonds. "Now you see them more and more."
But the biggest obstacle in the low end of the market is that few guests at economy hotels, most of which rely on automobile traffic, will pay $2 to $3 for a beer when they can buy it for half that price at a nearby convenience store.
Prices of mini-bars vary from about $350 to more than $1,000, depending on the features. Room Systems even installs them free. "We share the revenue with the hotel until we get to a certain level, usually after two or three years," Mr. Sunyich said. "Then the hotels get 90 percent."
While standard brands dominate mini-bars, some hotels also offer regional treats.
The Lowes Vanderbilt Plaza in Nashville sells Goo Goo Clusters, the sinfully delicious concoctions of chocolate, carmel, marshmallow and peanuts that have tickled the palates of Southerners for more than 80 years. Mini-bars in the Anatole Hotel in Dallas stock Texas smoked beef.
The Kahala Hilton in Honolulu, now undergoing renovation, has long carried cookies made in Kauai and potato chips flavored with onions, while the Sheraton Waikiki sells chocolate-covered macadamia nuts. Many San Francisco hotels carry Ghirardelli chocolate and Anchor Steam beer, while the Samuel Adams brew is popular in Boston.
Visitors to hotels at resorts and in New York often find disposable cameras in mini-bars. And hotels frequented by Japanese guests often carry miso soup, Japanese beer, green tea bags and sake.
The Four Seasons in Manhattan sells five kinds of cordials, four fruit drinks, three brands of vodka, two California wines and a partridge in a pear tree (well, all but the partridge in the pear tree).
Prices of mini-bar products are also starting to come down. Some hotels have found that they can sell even more and that guests complain less about high markups.
But hotel guests have found plenty of ways to vent their feelings about the high prices at most mini-bars.
Some guests, for instance, have been known to drain cans of soda and beer by punching a hole in the bottom, or to replace the clear liquor in miniature bottles with tap water. Losses at honor bars, which depend on guests' truthfulness at checkout or a visual canvass of the contents by maids, can run as high as 20 percent.
As a result, more hotels are installing computerized mini-bars that sense when an item has been removed and record transactions instantly, through a cable television channel or an extra telephone line.
Automated mini-bars can also be locked and unlocked at the front desk in order to comply with liquor laws in some states that limit selling hours. The automation also reduces labor costs, because the hotel staff no longer needs to inspect or restock each mini-bar each day.
Still, not everyone is enamored of the high-tech versions. "We used to have them, but no longer," said Keith Miller at the Delta Chelsea Inn in Toronto. "Whenever people opened the door and examined the product, they got charged for it whether they used it or not."
For all the new mini-bar offerings, some places still depend on the tried and true. In Washington, the consumption of alcoholic beverages is much higher than average. Asked why, Mr. Sunyich of Room Systems offered a diplomatic explanation: "Maybe it's because of so many foreign visitors."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Room Sevice Without the Wait" shows the most frequently purchased mini-bar items, based on 1993 sales at 200,000 hotel rooms in North America. (Source: Minibar North America, Bethesda Md.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%); CANADA (72%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%); SHERATON NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHERATON NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%); CANADA (72%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); ZUG, SWITZERLAND (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FOOD; SOFT DRINKS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SALES HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); RESORTS (79%); HOTEL STAFF (79%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CARD GAMES (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



194 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Administration Resists Pressures to Cut Foreign Aid for 1996

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Despite Congressional pressures to cut foreign aid, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today that the Clinton Administration planned to keep next year's aid budget at current levels to help the United States maintain its commitments overseas.
In unveiling the $21.21 billion budget for international affairs, down $81 million from the budget approved for the previous year, Mr. Christopher said that aid to countries of the former Soviet bloc would increase modestly while spending on international peacekeeping would fall sharply. 
 Under the new budget -- which represents 1.3 percent of the total Federal outlays -- aid to the two largest recipient nations would remain untouched, at $3.1 billion for Israel and $2.1 billion for Egypt. Mr. Christopher asserted that maintaining aid to those two countries was vital to buttress the faltering Middle East peace negotiations, which he hopes to advance when he meets in Washington on Sunday with the foreign ministers of Israel, Egypt and Jordan as well as a senior Palestinian official.
"The resources that we are requesting are the rock-bottom minimum that we need to defend and advance America's interests," Mr. Christopher said at a news briefing. "Last November's elections certainly changed many things, but they were not a license to lose sight of our global interests or to walk away from our commitments around the world."
By far the biggest cuts in the new budget are for international peacekeeping, an area that Congressional Republicans have singled out for sharp cuts. Mr. Christopher said the Administration was requesting $440 million for peacekeeping for the fiscal year 1996, down $760 million from $1.2 billion the previous year. The 1995 amount was so much larger in part because it included a supplemental $672 million for peacekeeping funds already owed to the United Nations.
Mr. Christopher said the peacekeeping budget was being cut not in response to Republican pressure, but because the $440 million was his best estimate of next year's peacekeeping costs. He said, though, that if a United Nations peacekeeping force remains in Bosnia beyond March 1996, the Administration will probably have to ask Congress for more peacekeeping funds for its share.
Some Republican lawmakers disputed Mr. Christopher's description of the budget as "austere," noting that without the peacekeeping cuts, the budget would be up 3 percent and that the part of the international affairs budget going to foreign aid would be up 6 percent.
Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, said: "When dozens of other programs are being subjected to draconian cuts, I can't support a 6 percent increase in foreign assistance. The subcommittee is going to take a good hard look at the continuation of traditional aid entitlement programs."
But Mr. McConnell said he was pleased that the budget expands military aid and continues programs to promote exports.
Although Republican leaders have criticized the Administration for giving Russia too much aid, the new budget would increase aid to the former Soviet Union to $788 million, from $719 million this year. In an seeming nod to Republican pressures, State Department officials said this increase was directed to countries other than Russia that have undertaken economic reforms, including Ukraine and Georgia.
Nonetheless, Mr. Christopher defended aid to Russia, saying, "Russia's indiscriminate and excessive use of force in Chechnya has certainly dealt a setback to reform in that country, but it has not altered our fundamental interest in helping Russian reformers build a nation that finally is at peace with itself and its neighbors."
Aid for Eastern Europe would increase 33 percent, to $480 million. Craig Johnstone, the State Department's director of resources, plans and policy, said that the focus would shift to the southern part of the region and that $60 million would be used to rebuild Bosnia.
Spending for nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament would rise 61 percent, to $166 million. State Department officials said $22 million would be used for the agreement that seeks to get North Korea to freeze its nuclear program.
The international affairs budget, which includes spending for various agencies, including the United States Information Agency and the Export-Import Bank, calls for increased spending on some of Vice President Al Gore's favorite programs: population stabilization, up 10 percent to $635 million, and environmental protection, up 10 percent to $378 million.
The budget would further Mr. Christopher's efforts to make the State Department a major player in advancing the Administration's anti-crime strategy. It calls for more than doubling the spending for international narcotics control, to $213 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (69%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENT (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENT (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); BUDGETS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



195 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Trade Thinly; Prices Mixed

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday in thin trading ahead of the Government's debt sales this week.
Dealers typically lighten their inventories of securities before an auction, but the rally last Friday left some market participants debating about how much strength was left. 
 The Treasury's quarterly refinancing this week begins with the sale of $17 billion of 3-year notes today, $12 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow and $11 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday.
With a Government report on producer prices scheduled to be released on Friday, traders and analysts expect yields will slip in order for the market to absorb the new supply of debt. But after the rally on Friday, some investors are wondering if bonds are overpriced.
"This is an uncertain time for the market," said Kevin McClintock, manager of fixed-income portfolios for Aeltus Investment Management Inc., in Hartford. "Once we get through the auction this week and leave that supply behind us, the bond market could do better for several months, purely based on the flow of funds going into the bond market."
The price of the 30-year bond fell 5/32 , to 9812/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 7.64 percent, from 7.62 percent on Friday.
Shorter-maturity bills were up a few basis points, while at the Treasury's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, the average rates were mixed.
The average rate of a three-month maturity rose to 5.83 percent, from 5.79 percent last week, with the six-month falling to 6.10 percent, from 6.12 percent.
In when-issued trading late in the day yesterday, yields inched higher. The three-year note was offered at a price to yield 7.37 percent, the 10-year note at a price to yield 7.53 percent and the 30-year bond at a price to yield 7.59 percent.
Treasury prices rallied on Friday after the employment report for January showed clear evidence of a slowdown. But some traders and analysts said yesterday that they were not so sure about the direction of the economy.
 "The economy is not as weak as recent data suggest," said Roseanne M. Cahn, director of the economics department at CS First Boston. She said weak retail sales were misinterpreted, given the strength of employment and consumer optimisim.
Mr. McClintock of Aeltus said: "The economy tends to grow not in a straight line but in spurts. So the question now becomes, 'Is this an intermediate slowing of the economy or is this a permanent slowdown?' "
In the municipal bond market, where money is chasing too few new issues, prices rose for the second consecutive day.
States, cities and other municipalities are scheduled to sell about $1.43 billion of new debt this week, or about twice the amount sold last week.
According to The Bond Buyer, the 30-day supply is about $2.22 billion, or about 60 percent lower than it was at the same time last year.
Following are the results of the Treasury's weekly bill auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Both issues are dated Feb. 9, 1995. The three-month bills mature on May 11, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 10, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Oct. 1994 to Feb. 1995. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT AELTUS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT KEVIN MCCLINTOCK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



196 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Advance for Fifth Straight Session

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Wall Street yesterday continued its rally of last Friday, closing the session with a fifth consecutive advance. But the day's gains were curbed by profit taking in the last hour of trading.
Despite facing a week with relatively few economic reports that move markets, stock prices may rise even further, analysts said. The market had some wildly volatile sessions in January, but finished the month virtually unchanged, so it may be poised for a sustained rally, they said. 
 David Shulman, chief equity strategist for Salomon Brothers, however, said the recent Wall Street rally was based largely on the assumption that the Federal Reserve was through raising interest rates.
He said that with factory use at more than 85 percent and unemployment less than 6 percent, such a view was flawed because wages and salaries were bound to rise. "Wall Street thinks no one in America is ever going to get a raise," said Mr. Shulman, who thinks the Fed will continue to lift rates.
Indeed, a rally could goad the Fed into action, he said. "If Alan Greenspan sees a roaring stock market, do you think he's going to conclude that monetary policy is too tight or too easy?"
In the short run, the wild card is this Friday's report on producer prices. A recent survey of economists by Bloomberg Business News predicts that the index, a measure of wholesale price inflation, increased four-tenths of 1 percent in January.
Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the survey forecasts a rise of three-tenths of 1 percent, compared with two-tenths of 1 percent in December. If the producer index comes in higher, the development may surprise Wall Street and send stock prices tumbling.
Yesterday, after rising as much as 23 points, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 3,937.73, up 9.09 points, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 2.49 points, to 481.14. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 6.79 points, to 778.85.
Shares of America Online, a provider of computer on-line services, hit a 52-week high of 62 3/4 before closing at 62 3/8, up 3 3/4. An analyst at Goldman, Sachs predicted that America Online would overtake its larger rivals, including Compuserve.
Another computer-related stock, that of the LSI Logic Corporation, also set a 52-week high of 47 3/4 before closing at 47, up 2 7/8. A Merrill Lynch analyst recommended LSI, a semiconductor maker, as "above average."
Shares of the Duracraft Corporation, a maker of consumer products like heaters and fans, rose 3, to 36. Company executives said they agreed with analysts' estimates of fourth-quarter earnings reaching 51 cents a share, up from the 43 cents of a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LSI (NASDAQ) (62%); GS (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) LSI CORP (62%); DURACRAFT CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AOL INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BONDS (79%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



197 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Invite U.S. to Resume Talks on Trade

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Just two days after being slapped with punitive tariffs against more than $1 billion in goods, China today asked United States negotiators to return to Beijing next week to resume talks on the piracy of American-made music, movies and software.
Administration officials welcomed the move, and said it might indicate that China's leadership was reconsidering the wisdom of a confrontation -- and perhaps a trade war -- over violations of American copyrights on items from compact disks to popular personal computer programs. 
 "The mere fact that they came back so quickly tells you that they are ready to respond in some way," the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, said today.
But Mr. Kantor cautioned that China's invitation, sent by the Trade Minister, Wu Yi, included no specific proposals. It is still far from clear, he said, that the dispute will be settled by Feb. 26, the day on which the tariffs automatically go into effect.
On Saturday, the Clinton Administration announced the imposition of 100 percent tariffs on a range of Chinese goods as punishment for China's failure to crack down on piracy. The Administration did not say whether, to meet American demands, China would have to close the 29 plants that are producing 70 million compact disks and videodisks annually.
Presumably the United States would be satisfied if the factories licensed production of the movies and music, paying royalties. But that would so increase the cost that the business might no longer be viable for the Chinese manufacturers.
Today's announcement of China's willingness to act came as the White House held a meeting over how to handle the increasingly complex web of issues surrounding the American relationship with China on trade; on the transition of power as the country's paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, lies gravely ill; on human rights, and on China's shipment of missile technology abroad.
"There is a sense that there is not a lot of order to all of this, and we have to get it together," one participant in the meeting said today.
The confusion of priorities will be particularly evident later this month, when Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary arrives in Beijing on a mission to get the Chinese to spend billions of dollars on American-made electric-power systems.
But Ms. O'Leary will also be carrying another message, State Department officials say. She will be urging China to accept Secretary of State Warren Christopher's offer to begin regular discussions on Chinese missile exports, including an offer to forgive past violations in return for a full accounting of past sales.
At roughly the same time, Mr. Kantor's deputies will be reopening the trade talks and telling the Chinese that commercial relations between the world's largest and third-largest economies will be gravely threatened if Beijing does not meet American demands to stop copying music and software.
Mr. Kantor and his aides said last week that they believed the announcement of sanctions would bring the Chinese back to the negotiating table, much as a similar action did last year in a lower-profile dispute over textiles.
But with the Chinese leadership in considerable disarray, some American diplomats expressed concern today that there were still powerful interests in Beijing arguing against an accommodation with the United States, in part because an agreement to crack down on the disk makers would interfere with one of the most profitable businesses in which China's military has a stake. That comes just as the Pentagon is trying to deepen its relations with China's military leaders, setting up regular consultations and even discussing the possibility of allowing port calls by each nation's naval veseels and other such arrangements.
"We've got the Pentagon trying to build a better relationship with these guys, and Mickey Kantor cutting off their revenue," an Administration official involved in the issue said.
Much of that revenue comes from the 29 plants that produce compact disks and videodisks, sometimes bringing out hit movies before they are sold or rented in the United States ("Jurassic Park" being a recent example of that). Almost all of the products are then exported to South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and other markets where American movies are popular.
Within hours of Mr. Kantor's announcement of trade sanctions on Saturday, China angrily responded that it would place 100 percent tariffs on American-made goods, ranging from video games to cigarettes and alcohol. Still, both country's lists were notable for what they excluded.
The American list, for example, has no toys and few electronics, China's No. 1 and 2 exports to the United States. American officials decided that a doubling of the wholesale price of Chinese-made toys would hurt large and small American retailers -- to say nothing of making the White House akin to the Grinch -- and that placing tariffs on electronics parts would hurt American computer makers.
The main beneficiary of such a move on electronic components would probably be Japan, where producers would not be paying a tariff on their purchase of components.
Some shoes and winter apparel are included on the American list, but these items represent only a fraction of such products that are shipped to the United States by China. Other items that Washington picked for tariffs include fishing rods, surfboards and bicycles, all of which are available from American producers or are imported to the United States by manufacturers in other nations.
China excluded from its list aircraft and aircraft components, which are among its biggest imports from the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (72%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); ESPIONAGE (60%); CLOSINGS (51%); 

PERSON: KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR) WU YI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



198 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Proposal From Mediator Is Put Off Until Today

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Faced with a task so difficult that the striking baseball players and owners have been unable to solve it in eight months, President Clinton and the mediator he has asked to settle the dispute took a step back today.
Bill Usery Jr., the mediator, was supposed to present Clinton with a proposal that was to be his best effort to produce an agreement, or one that possibly could serve as the basis for legislation by which Congress could impose a settlement. 
 But in a 40-minute meeting at the White House this evening, Labor Secretary Robert Reich said, Usery asked the President for additional time to refine his proposal. Clinton readily agreed, asking Usery to deliver his recommended settlement at 3 P.M. Tuesday.
Michael D. McCurry, Clinton's press secretary, said the President was "not overly optimistic" about the prospects for a settlement. Clinton, McCurry said, had been told that the negotiators "did not appear to make significant progress."
But there was no progress to be made today because negotiators for the two sides did not even meet.
"No joint meeting is scheduled," Dick Conn, Usery's spokesman, said early in the afternoon.
Nor did negotiators meet separately with Usery to discuss a settlement, as they have so often in the plodding talks that formally began on June 14 with the owners' first salary-cap proposal. Each side did meet with the mediator, but he summoned them to get their input for the proposal he was formulating.
A person familiar with Usery's efforts said that when he left his office at 4:55 P.M., he took a proposal with him. But he apparently left it in his briefcase, at least figuratively, when he met first with Reich and Bruce Lindsey, deputy White House counsel, for about 45 minutes, then with those two and Clinton.
"He didn't want to leave any stone unturned," Reich said at a news briefing. "He didn't want to really risk not thinking of and not giving both parties a full opportunity for resolving this dispute. The President agreed to wait until 3 o'clock tomorrow for former Secretary Usery's final reports and recommendations."
Noting that this was the 100th anniversary of Babe Ruth's birth, Reich said that "the Babe would not be enormously optimistic for a quick settlement right now."
Ruth hit 714 home runs in his legendary career, but no one has come close to hitting one in this extended dispute, which has confounded everyone who has put his hand in -- Donald Fehr, Richard Ravitch, John Harrington, Jerry McMorris, Usery, now Clinton.
When the President was asked in the Oval Office earlier in the day about the status of the talks, he said: "We're working -- I just keep telling them to play ball. It's time to go. It's just a few hundred folks trying to figure out how to divide nearly $2 billion. They ought to be able to figure that out in time for the rest of America to enjoy this baseball season."
Usery, following Reich at the news briefing at the Mayflower Hotel, site of the non-talks, said he was "usually very optimistic" and refused to be pessimistic, "although it is very difficult to seem to find a voluntary agreement."
Pressed to explain why he didn't deliver, as promised, a proposal to the President, he said: "I simply ran out of time. I was working with the parties, and when you have to write a recommendation that goes to the President of the United States and may be used other ways, it takes a lot of time to do that."
Usery said he would "finalize" his recommendation Tuesday and "get it to the President." Meanwhile, he said, "I will continue to do my very best to bring about a voluntary settlement." The mediator also said circumstances were "most unfortunate for everyone concerned."
That is true because the players and the owners couldn't get it done voluntarily in the first four months of their talks, haven't been able to get it done since Usery entered the dispute at the Administration's request Oct. 14 and haven't exactly flogged themselves to an agreement since the President applied public pressure Jan. 26 by giving them until today to settle their billions of dollars of differences or face a mediator's proposal and possible forced imposition.
The player members of the union's negotiating committee, frustrated with the inability to negotiate a deal, took the opportunity of Usery's appointment at the White House to ask him to deliver a letter to the President.
"They wanted to make sure the President understood all the aspects of the dispute," Usery said.
Tom Glavine of the Atlanta Braves, one of the players who wrote the letter, declined to disclose its contents but said: "It's not an appeal. We just wanted to express how we felt about things and where we thought we were."
After returning from the White House, Usery spent time meeting with each side separately. After his evening session with the players, Donald Fehr, the union leader, said the mediator told them he would be back to them with suggestions before he heads to the White House Tuesday.
"My expectation is he'll make suggestions that will cause us to want to negotiate, so he wouldn't have to go back to the White House," Fehr said.
When Usery revealed Sunday that he had a 5 o'clock appointment at the White House, some people viewed it as a deadline for the two sides to reach agreement, but there was never any chance that they would approach that position.
During the morning and afternoon, Usery met with different groups from each side. At one point, he met with several general managers who have been standing by.
"He wants to get their thoughts," said Conn, his spokesman. "There are various aspects of the problem. He's trying to factor in all matters. He's talking to representatives of both sides to get their final input. He's open to anything. He is discussing aspects of his thinking, his philosophy, parameters. He will congeal this into a recommendation and take it to the President."
Given the time constraints of his Presidential assignment and the rigid positions of the owners and the players, Usery did not try to generate interest in a bargaining session.
"It doesn't look likely," Conn said when asked about a possible settlement, "but he always hopes lightning will strike and something will happen because he would so much prefer to have this settled by both sides rather than have an imposed settlement."
Conn was asked about the effect of the controversy over the signing freeze the clubs imposed as of today after the players lifted their freeze.
"I can't say it's had any effect," he replied. "It certainly has created unhappiness on both sides, but I couldn't say what bearing, if any, it will have on the recommendation."
No one in the Usery group offered any hint of where the mediator was headed with his proposal.
Gene Orza, the union's associate general counsel, said that Usery had asked the union to provide its views in nine areas of the talks -- a payroll tax, salary arbitration, free agency, term of a deal, revenue sharing, non-economic issues, a strike settlement, governance and a growth fund and pension plan.
The tax element was first. with good reason. The issue of a salary cap or a tax is the one that has fueled the strike since its inception on Aug. 12.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton meeting at the White House yesterday with Bill Usery Jr., who is completing work on his proposed accord. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES BASEBALL (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STRIKES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); USERY, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



199 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
All Is Quiet on the White House Front

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
To become the savior of America's pastime is an undeniably heady prospect. But in letting his own deadline lapse tonight for a settlement in the baseball labor dispute, President Clinton may have had his eye on the inverse: the perils of trying and falling short.
It has been 10 days since Clinton issued a veiled threat to baseball's warring players and owners. But he cannot force a settlement on them; his only real weapon is the bully pulpit. And with Congress sounding unenthusiastic about joining him in the fight, the President's silence tonight showed his uneasiness about drawing from so slim a quiver. 
 When he went to Capitol Hill last month on his plan to rescue Mexico from its peso crisis, Clinton knew all along that he could act on his own. But when it comes to baseball, he has no such authority, and his aides made reference to that relative impotence tonight as his Federal mediator, Bill Usery Jr., came and went from the Oval Office in silence.
"We just don't have that many tools," a senior White House official said tonight. "As long as there is any prospect that they'll talk further, we should pursue it."
As late as midday, aides had said that Clinton intended to put the weight of the White House behind a proposal from Usery in a bid to turn up the pressure on both sides. But by midafternoon, they had changed tune, saying that even after a day in which the players and owners had not made progress, Clinton wanted to give Usery more time to refine his proposal before he committed himself to a specific course.
Clinton has never promised outright to settle the dispute. It was not until two months after the players walked out on Aug. 12 that he appointed Usery as his mediator. It was not until Jan. 26 that he set today as his deadline for progress, and even then he made clear his preference that the parties reach their own settlement.
But as part of its pressure campaign, Clinton and his aides have gone out of their way to encourage the expectation that a continued deadlock at the bargaining table would result in swift action. They have portrayed the baseball strike as a threat to small-town economies, the American morale and the national security.
By last weekend, as the talks between players and owners entered their showdown phase, the White House was boasting that the President was wielding "a 40-ounce Louisville Slugger."
It is that strategy that seemed hollow as Clinton held his fire tonight. Public opinion polls noted carefully by the White House had shown scant enthusiasm among fans for direct Presidential intervention. And more important, early signs that Congress might join in a bid to settle the dispute had dimmed to such a degree that the third-ranking Republican in the House leadership, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, finally said this afternoon what some of his colleagues had previously made clear in private.
"I don't think there's a great desire on the part of Congres to involve ourselves in this dispute," Boehner said.
Without Congress, Clinton has no power to force the players and managers to accept any settlement, even one put forward by Usery. Without Congress, he cannot force them either to accept binding arbitration as a way out of their dispute.
As late as last month, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, left open the prospect that Congress might at least revoke baseball's antitrust exemption as a means of pressuring the owners. But in recent days, Dole's aides have called that prospect unlikely and said that it would consume time that the House and the Senate should devote to other matters.
Clinton did get some support today from an unlikely source, Senator Orrin Hatch, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
"I think they'd better pay attention to this President," Hatch said before the President postponed the planned public statement. "I think he means business. I'm going to support him on it."
But without much hope for more substantive Congressional backing, Clinton has clearly decided to act judiciously. Barring a last-minute breakthrough, his aides said he must now decide how aggressively to let fly with his plan to hail Usery's plan as fair, reasonable and the best path toward a settlement -- a rare Presidential tribute intended to put pressure on both sides by fixing public attention on a compromise target.
"There is an opportunity to say to the public: 'This is what is the fair outcome according to the best mediator in the country,' " Labor Secretary Robert Reich said this morning. " 'Let's see if the parties can abide by it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Glavine, who helped craft an appeal to the President, talks to reporters. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: UTAH REPUBLICAN (59%); WHITE HOUSE (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995



200 of 735 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
A Negotiating Game With Two Big Losers

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The major league owners and players milled around the Mayflower Hotel, one of those classic "power" enclaves found in the nation's capital, all but powerless yesterday as they waited for President Clinton to decide their future.
The President, and his hand-picked mediator, Bill Usery Jr., only heightened the tension by putting off their Solomonic judgment until today. But no matter how the President and Usery attempt to divide the riches that the owners and players could not, the third-party decision is bound to spark debate as to who the winners and losers are. 
 Such a debate will prove futile despite the obvious assessments if there is or isn't a luxury tax, if there is or isn't a salary cap, if there are or aren't inroads against a historically undefeated union.
There won't be any victories here, not even Pyrrhic ones, no matter which way the Clinton Administration decision falls. There will be nothing but losers in baseball's Greek tragedy.
No matter what form the sport takes next week when spring training camps open, the game will not be the same. The Clinton-applied spur may yet lead to replacement players being stopped at the borders of Florida and Arizona. It may even lead the way for the return of the striking major leaguers by the time exhibition games begin in March because the President was able to stop a strike that is closing in on its six-month anniversary.
But Clinton can't heal baseball. Nothing can, or will, for a long, long time. The partnership between players and management, severely tested in the collusion years of the late 1980's, then tenuously pieced back together in ensuing years, is shattered.
Collusion spawned such distrust and enmity that the negotiators of 1990 were forced to turn more on moral indignation than economic issues as the owners' negotiating team of the commissioner, Fay Vincent, and deputy commissioner, Steve Greenberg, tried to overcome five-year-old acrimony in aggrieved players.
Those same two negotiators are no longer with baseball because they could not overcome the obvious anger found in the majority of owners who feel too much has been given away to players in the past 15 or so years. Management's ire, which seethed just below the surface for so many years, has been vented during this strike.
The owners' resolve has been remarkable for its unity and single-mindedness, save for the lone opposition of Baltimore's Peter Angelos.
Not everyone will endorse what owners have done in their effort to tip the scales of power back in their favor. But no one can accuse them of having followed their usual path, which is to disintegrate and capitulate in ignominious fashion.
Ironically, the owners' evolution into an irresistible force has pitted them against the always immovable object that is the Major League Baseball Players Association.
In the best of times, those two groups dare to dream of full-fledged cooperation geared toward growing the game. Now, if those dreams are not dead, they are certainly on a respirator.
The past few days, labor and management haven't even been able to walk into the same room and pretend to negotiate a new working agreement. And the Government that forced them to try, hasn't applied the prod for days. And Clinton's team obviously had no intention of doing so, for the simple reason that it knows a lost cause when it sees one.
Witness the actions of Bill Usery Jr., the special mediator Clinton brought into the fray. Usery, as asked, spent Sunday night and Monday morning and afternoon working on his own recommendation for a settlement. Sunday he expressed hope that the two sides would use the first glances of his efforts as a jumping-off point for renewed talks.
Yet Usery, a mediator famous for locking warring parties in a room until a deal is done, has chosen not to at any point in these talks. Even with Clinton's mandate that a deal be made or he'd turn the situation over to Usery.
Fact is, these two sides were too angry to sit at the same table. The discourse in separate sessions before the news media deteriorated so seriously Sunday night that Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, likened the owners' decision not to allow individual clubs to sign players until there is a settlement to throwing a bomb into the negotiations with the intent of having it explode.
So, is it any wonder that when asked if there was any chance that the parties could settle the strike themselves before Usery and Clinton officially intervened, Richard Conn, a spokesman for Usery, simply replied: "No."
That certainly was the suspicion over six months ago. The suspicion grew with cynical certainty this weekend. The President of the United States might be able to make the strike go away. He won't be able to make what it has wrought do the same.
"There's so much talk about the bad relationship between the two sides, if somebody tells us what we've got to do for the next three or four or five years, that doesn't lend itself toward making this relationship any better," said Tom Glavine, a pitcher for the Atlanta Braves and a player-negotiator. "We're going to be right back in the same spot four years from now.
"The Government getting involved is not going to do anything to bridge this relationship."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STRIKES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1995

 
